HYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 
CONOMY IN DIET 

. M. BAYLISS 



I 



I 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 
AND ECONOMY IN DIET 



B 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF 

FOOD AND ECONOMY 

IN DIET 



BY 

W. M. BAYLISS, M.A., D.Sc. (OxoN.), F.R.S., ETC. 

PROFESSOR OF GENERAL PHYSIOLOGY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON 



i j i 

LONGMANS, GREEN AND GO, 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

FOUBTH AVENUE A SOra STREET, NEW TOBK 
BOMBAY, CALCUTTA, AND MADRAS 

1917 



PREFATORY NOTE 

THIS little manual has arisen from a 
course of public lectures given at University 
College, London, in October and November, 
1916. It has been thought that a useful 
purpose might be served at the present time 
by making these lectures more generally 
accessible. Although no previous know- 
ledge of physiology is assumed, references 
are inserted to sources of more detailed 
information on certain questions for those 
readers who may desire to enter more deeply 
into these questions. Occasionally, points 
of interest are indicated which, though un- 
essential to the main argument, will be found 
to appeal to the reader possessing the 
necessary scientific preparation. 

I would especially acknowledge my in- 
debtedness to the booklet by Wood and 
Hopkins, Food Economy in War-Time. 



vi PREFATORY NOTE 

It may be pointed out that the problems 
involved are not only of importance in war- 
time, but also in times of peace, since waste 
should always be avoided, as far as possible. 

W. M. B. 



CONTENTS 



I THE PROBLEM AS A WHOLE i 

II THE USES OF FOOD 6 

1. Growth 

2. Maintenance 

3. Work 

Energy 
Constituents of the Body and of Diet 

Proteins 
' Oxygen 

III THE THREE CLASSES OF FOOD STUFFS . 25 
Proteins 
Fats 
Carbohydrates 

IV THE QUANTITY REQUIRED ... 32 
" Man Value " 
Food Available 
Belgian Food Commission 
Actual Values of Food Stuffs 
Protein Minimum 
Use of Carbohydrate 
Use of Fat 

V ACCESSORY FACTORS, OR " VITAMINES " . 56 

VI DIGESTIBILITY 61 

vii 



viii CONTENTS 

CHAP. PAGE 

VII ALCOHOL .... 67 

VIII VEGETARIANISM 75 

IX EXERCISE. 77 

X THE VALUE OF COOKING ... 80 
XI CHARACTERISTICS OF CERTAIN ARTICLES 

OF DIET 82 

Bread 

Other Articles 

XII POSSIBILITIES OF ECONOMY ... 90 

XIII GENERAL CONCLUSIONS .... 97 

REFERENCES 101 

INDEX 105 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 
AND ECONOMY IN DIET 

CHAPTER I 

THE PROBLEM AS A WHOLE 

ALTHOUGH many physiological problems 
have been brought into prominence by the 
War, most of these concern people as a whole 
only indirectly. That of Food, however, is 
of immediate interest to us all. Leaving on 
one side that aspect of the matter which may 
be regarded as, in a sense, aesthetic, associated 
with the gratification of the sense of taste, it 
may be taken for granted that every one is 
sincerely desirous of avoiding unnecessary 
consumption of food, so far as it can be done 
wisely and without diminution of value of the 
individual as a member of the community. 

We have to inquire, therefore, into the uses 

of food, into the amount necessary to fulfil 
B 



2 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

these uses, into the necessary constituents of 
an adequate diet, and into the ways in which 
these constituents can be supplied most econo- 
mically. Some subsidiary questions will need 
brief discussion, such as the part played by 
digestion and the use of alcohol. It is, 
indeed, remarkable how widespread is the 
impression that butchers' meat has some 
specially valuable properties ; and that sugar, 
amongst other things, should not be regarded 
as a food in the true sense of the word. Again, 
there are some people who appear to be 
under the belief that the more food eaten the 
better, so long as it is digested, We hear of 
a "fine healthy appetite," when the person 
spoken of is probably really consuming much 
more than he needs. 

We shall see later that there is no probability 
of any actual deficiency in the food supply as 
a whole, although there is undoubtedly already 
some scarcity in particular articles of diet, and 
prices have risen all round. We want to know 
how far we can avoid costly articles or replace 
them by cheaper ones, without any disadvan- 
tage. It is scarcely necessary to remark 



THE PROBLEM AS A WHOLE 3 

that saving in unnecessary expense enables 
more money to be devoted to national needs, 
as by purchase of War Loan and so on. Here 
we may note that the problem is not merely 
a physiological one, it is a complex one of 
economics also. I call attention to this point, 
although it is outside the scope of the present 
inquiry. If, for example, a great demand 
were to arise for some particular article of 
food on account of its cheapness, this demand 
in itself would produce a rise in price. It 
seems that the best course to take to avoid 
economical disturbance is that indicated by 
Wood and Hopkins (1916, p. 3 ; see List of 
Literature at the end of this book). This is, 
that articles whose price is either falling, or 
only slowly rising, should be selected rather 
than those whose price is rising quickly. This 
of course implies an observation of the market 
prices from day to day. We may hope for 
guidance in this respect from the Government 
Departments. 

It may be well, before we proceed further, 
to state the general conclusion to which we 
shall arrive. This is, that any kind of diet 



4 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

which is at all likely to be chosen in the British 
Isles will contain all that is necessary, provided 
that it be taken in the right amount. Even 
potatoes alone, under favourable conditions, 
can be made to suffice, as we shall see later. 
It is not in the least probable that any reason- 
able person here would attempt to live only 
on polished rice, still less on a pure chemical 
product such as cane-sugar or olive oil. 

In the succeeding pages, I attempt to give, 
in as simple and elementary a manner as 
possible, the essential facts of the science of 
nutrition. At the same time, I do not feel 
compelled to avoid occasional reference to 
somewhat more difficult aspects of the sub- 
ject, but only where they may be of interest 
to readers already in possession of some 
physiological knowledge and where they may 
be omitted by others without loss of what is 
of immediate practical importance. It may 
happen, of course, that readers of the latter 
kind will be deprived of the proof of some 
statements which rest on the more difficult 
parts of physiological investigation. I must 
ask them to take such statements on trust. 



THE PROBLEM AS A WHOLE 5 

We will proceed to discuss, in order, the 
reasons why food must be taken, the essen- 
tial components of food, the quantity of these 
required, and finally some practical sugges- 
tions following from the physiological facts 
brought forward. 



CHAPTER II 

THE USES OF FOOD 

1. Growth. When a living being is in- 
creasing in size, it is perfectly obvious that 
materials must be supplied for the purpose, 
and that the supply must contain in some 
form the actual chemical constituents of the 
new tissues formed. 

2. Maintenance. Even in the adult, the 
various parts of the body undergo waste by 
wear and tear, just as any other machine 
does. This loss must be replaced, and again 
material containing the chemical elements of 
the substance lost must be supplied. When 
we say this, it is not to be understood that 
the same actual chemical compounds as those 
contained in the body must be given in the 
food. But, since chemical elements, except 
under very special conditions, cannot be 



THE USES OF FOOD 7 

changed into other elements, food which con- 
tains some compounds of the elements found 
in the body must be taken. For example, 
new growth contains, compounds of nitrogen ; 
therefore, food containing nitrogen must be 
available. 

These two functions of food are very 
closely related, although not necessarily iden- 
tical. Under certain circumstances, more- 
over, as in the training of an athlete, new 
muscular substance is produced. So that, 
even in the adult, material for actual growth 
is sometimes required. 

3. Work. But the greater part of the 
food, both in the young and in the adult, is 
needed for a different purpose, a fact which 
is frequently apt to be overlooked by those 
who are unfamiliar with scientific studies. 
While the addition of new substance and the 
replacement of that lost are sufficiently 
plain to most people as requiring food, the 
necessary consumption for the* purpose to 
which I am now referring is somewhat 
intangible. 

One of the most characteristic of the 



8 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

properties of living beings is the perpetual 
change shown by them : they are always 
doing something, as one may say. Now, 
universal experience teaches us that such 
activity means doing work, and that this im- 
plies the loss of something by the worker. 
The capacity of doing work is called energy, 
by physical science. An extremely impor- 
tant fact, on which the whole of science is 
based, is that energy can be measured exactly. 
And the loss of energy in doing work is pre- 
cisely equivalent to the work done. Having 
measured by an appropriate method a par- 
ticular amount of energy, we know that we 
can obtain from it just so much work and no 
more. As a matter of course, then, if work 
is to be done by our muscles, they must be 
supplied with a source of energy. This is 
done by what we may call, with justification, 
combustible substances in food. The fact 
that work can be obtained from the burning 
of coal under a steam-boiler is familiar to 
every one. There are numbers of similar 
materials which burn in air, and one of the 
most instructive experiments which can be 



THE USES OF FOOD 9 

performed is the very simple one of showing 
that the products of the combustion of sugar 
in air and those found in the air which we 
expel from the lungs are identical. These 
latter arise from the burning of sugar and 
other foods in our bodies for the purpose of 
affording energy to perform work. An im- 
portant practical fact which follows naturally 
from what has just been said is, that the 
greater the quantity of work done the more 
fuel is required. Probably one of the most 
significant results of modern physiological 
research, is that there is an exact balance 
between the energy taken in and that given 
out in the form of work of various forms. 
From this, again, it is plain that energy may 
exist in different forms ; the chemical energy 
of the food is transformed partly into that of 
muscular contraction, partly into heat, and 
so on. But none is lost and none is ever 
created. Some readers will doubtless recog- 
nize this statement as what is known as the 
first law of energetics, that of the conservation 
of energy, and it is one of the greatest modern 
physiological achievements to have shown 



10 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

that it applies no less to man than to inani- 
mate nature. 

We see that food is required for two main 
purposes : (i) for growth or repair of bodily 
substance ; (2) to afford energy. Since a 
great variety of different materials are capable 
of being burnt up for this latter purpose, 
although they may not contain what is wanted 
for growth, it follows that J:he requirements 
are different for the two purposes. While 
the food stuffs needed for growth and main- 
tenance do, as a matter of fact, contain 
combustibile constituents, and thus give 
energy, there are other food stuffs, which are 
equally valuable as producers of energy, but 
insufficient for growth. 

The general facts may be better under- 
stood by comparison with a petrol motor. 
Such a machine in process of construction 
requires certain materials steel, iron, brass, 
insulating material and so on some of which 
cannot be replaced by others. When finished, 
and set to work, a supply of these materials 
is no longer necessary, but a combustible fuel 
is used as food for the engine. This fuel is 



THE USES OF FOOD 11 

burned in the cylinder, and the energy 
afforded can be made use of for various 
purposes. Notice that the fuel does not 
become part of the motor, but that its energy 
is made available by means of the mechanism. 
Now, in process of time, certain parts, such 
as the piston rings and valves, wear out and 
must be replaced by new ones, whereas there 
are other parts, such as the fly-wheel and the 
general framework, which last for the dura- 
tion of the life of the engine, except for 
accidents. There are also other suggestive 
points of resemblance to the animal machine. 
Attention will be directed to these later. 

Proceeding now to further details, we 
may first consider the nature of the food 
necessary for growth and maintenance. 

Examining the constituents of the animal 
body, we find that they consist of numerous 
compounds of carbon with nitrogen, hydro- 
gen and oxygen. Some of these contain also 
sulphur and phosphorus. In addition to 
these, there is a large amount of water and 
a small amount of some inorganic salts, chiefly 
of sodium, potassium and calcium. 



12 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

As regards water, this does not afford 
energy, since it is already completely burnt 
or oxidized. But it may be looked upon as 
a kind of food, in so far as it is necessary for 
the proper working of the animal machine, 
and may be compared to the lubricating oil 
used for the moving parts of the petrol 
motor. As water is continually being lost 
from the lungs and kidneys, it must be re- 
placed. In civilized and habitable places there 
is, or ought to be, a copious supply of good 
water, a matter which is by no means the 
least important one to ensure. 

As regards salts, similar remarks may be 
made. The machine will not work without 
them ; but, except under special conditions, 
they are taken with other forms of food, 
being contained therein. The only salt com- 
monly consumed as such is sodium chloride, 
ordinary table salt. Further remarks in 
connection with water or salts will not be 
required. 

What about the carbon compounds which 
form the greater part of our bodies ? As is 
well known, the large body of doctrine 



THE USES OF FOOD 18 

known as organic chemistry is concerned 
with these, and the name is due to the fact 
that the first compounds of this kind were 
obtained from plants or animals. We may 
ask why the compounds of carbon should 
have this special place of honour. It is 
interesting to consider for a moment what 
are the peculiarities of carbon that have 
caused it to be the basis of the evolution of 
life. In the first place, carbon is quadri- 
valent, as the chemists call it ; that is, it can 
combine with four other elements or groups. 
Moreover, its atoms possess in a special 
degree, unknown in the case of other ele- 
ments, the power of combining with each 
other, so that long chains or rings are formed. 
Compounds containing as many as two hun- 
dred or more atoms are known to exist. 
Another important fact about carbon is its 
position with respect to other elements with 
which it may combine. The chemical ele- 
ments can be arranged in a series, such that 
those at opposite ends have the greatest 
"affinity" for each other. In other words, 
they combine together with the setting free 



14 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

of large amounts of energy. Oxygen and 
hydrogen, for example, are a long way apart 
in this arrangement, and they combine with 
great violence. Now, carbon is somewhere 
about the middle, so that it can combine with 
either hydrogen or with oxygen. In the 
latter case, we have the universal product of 
combustion of carbon compounds as it takes 
place in living organisms, as well as in the 
non-living world. This is carbon dioxide or 
carbonic acid, as it used to be called, since it 
forms an acid when dissolved in water. In 
this process of combustion, energy is given 
off. On the other hand, carbon can be made 
to combine with hydrogen, giving rise to the 
well-known paraffin oils and similar hydro- 
carbons. But, in this case, energy must be 
supplied from outside. These compounds of 
carbon and hydrogen, when burnt, give out 
large quantities of energy, as is familiar to 
all, at all events in one of its forms, that of 
heat. We see thus that carbon serves as 
an admirable means for the transference of 
energy in vital processes. 

The carbon compounds in the form in 



THE USES OF FOOD 15 

which they leave the animal body, after 
being made use of, are, nearly all of them, 
completely burnt up, so that they contain 
no more available energy, or merely a negli- 
gible quantity. It is clear, therefore, that 
some means must exist for converting them 
back again into food-stuffs containing energy. 
A description of this means is beyond the 
scope of this book ; in brief, it may be 
stated that it is provided by the green plant, 
with the aid of energy derived from the 
rays of the sun. This energy is stored up 
in the form of compounds from which the 
oxygen has been partially removed, which 
then serve as sources of food to give energy 
to the animal. Thus, our energy is derived 
from the sun. Further details may be found 
in my General Physiology (1915), pp. 558- 

5 6 9- 

Animals are dependent for their food 

either on plants or on other animals, that 
is, ultimately on plants in all cases. 

Since all the constituent parts of the 
body structures contain nitrogen, food must 
be supplied containing this element. The 



16 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

simplest chemical compounds of this kind 
which can be used by the higher animals 
are those known as ammo-acids. One of 
these is formed from acetic acid, familiar in 
vinegar, by the combination with it of a 
derivative of ammonia, which contains nitro- 
gen. There are a large number of different 
amino-acids, and together these have been 
found capable of serving as nitrogen food, 
without the addition of other nitrogen com- 
pounds. But, as a regular diet, they would 
be impossible on account of the difficulty 
and cost of preparing them, apart from ob- 
jection on the ground of taste. Accordingly, 
what we actually use are the various com- 
pounds, consisting of amino-acids united 
together, which are found in the tissues of 
plants and animals. These compounds are 
known as " proteins," a name which will be 
frequently used in succeeding pages, and has 
even become familiar from the pages of the 
daily press. Certain of these proteins con- 
tain sulphur and phosphorus, so that the 
supply of these elements is provided for. 
The word " proteid " is now obsolete. 



THE USES OF FOOD 17 

In actual practice, very few foodstuffs are 
of such a nature that they can be used by 
the cells of the body without being split up 
into simpler substances. Proteins, for ex- 
ample, must be converted into amino-acids, 
and starch into sugar. This is the function 
of the process known as digestion, to which 
our attention will be devoted presently. 

An important point with regard to the 
materials required for growth is that different 
proteins are composed of different mixtures 
of amino-acids, such that one or more may 
be absent from a particular protein. Such a 
protein, therefore, would only be an adequate 
source of nitrogen if the amino-acid wanting 
could be formed in the body from those 
which are actually present in the food itself. 
But there are some amino-acids which 
cannot be so formed. A protein which does 
not contain them is accordingly not, of itself 
alone, adequate as a source of nitrogen food. 
Such a contingency is not likely to happen 
in the British Isles, but must not be for- 
gotten where there is a possibility of a 
limited variety in protein diet. 



18 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

It may be remembered that, in our illustra- 
tion of the petrol motor, it was pointed out 
that there are parts which do not require 
renewal on account of wear and tear. It is 
not unexpected to find that, after the work- 
ing machinery of the body has been con- 
structed, certain parts of it also do not 
appear to suffer loss in this way. Hence, 
a particular constituent of food may be 
necessary for growth, but not for main- 
tenance. Some experiments made in the 
United States seem to show that this is 
actually the case. 

The important fact, however, for our pre- 
sent purpose, is that the products of wear 
and tear contain nitrogen, both in the adult 
and in the growing child. 

Turning next to the second function of 
food, the supply of energy, there are a few 
more facts needed in order to make further 
discussion intelligible. 

While there are many forms of energy- 
mechanical motion, heat, electricity and so 
on these can be converted into one another. 
Indeed, practically all the energy which we 



THE USES OF FOOD 19 

make use of is derived from the chemical 
energy of the food taken. This food, when 
burnt by the oxygen taken in by respiration, 
sets free energy which is converted into the 
various forms required. As Clark Maxwell 
has put it, the transactions of the material 
universe are carried on by a system of debit 
and credit in which energy changes hands, 
as it were. Now, it is just in this transfer 
of energy that the phenomena which par- 
ticularly strike us as characteristic of living 
beings are manifested. It is while in the 
act of transference that it is especially capable 
of being made use of. Just as in com- 
mercial transactions money can be most 
readily appropriated when passing from one 
form to another. From another point of 
view, while life lasts there cannot be a real 
state of equilibrium. Life means activity, 
and activity means transfer of energy. 

When it was stated above that all forms 
of energy can be changed into one another, 
it must not be understood that the whole 
of any one form can be changed into the 
equivalent value in any other form. While 



20 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

this is true for all forms of energy with the 
exception of heat, in this latter case the 
whole cannot be converted into another form 
of energy. This fact impresses upon us the 
consequence that, when once energy has 
become heat, a part of it is lost for other 
useful purposes. It is no longer " free " 
energy, and is sometimes said to be " de- 
graded " to heat. Kelvin called attention 
to this fact under the name of the " dissipa- 
tion of energy," and to many readers it will 
be recognised as involved in the second law 
of energetics, or, as it is often called, Thermo- 
dynamics. The name Thermodynamics as 
applied to the laws of energy, arises from 
the circumstance that these laws have been 
mostly made out from investigations on heat 
energy. 

The special position of heat as regards con- 
vertibility may possibly be due to the fact that 
under ordinary conditions we can obtain an 
absence, or zero value, of all other forms of 
energy, but that the zero of heat is at a tem- 
perature 273C. below the freezing point of 
water. 



THE USES OF FOOD 21 

The reader will probably ask what this 
discussion is meant to lead to. Its immediate 
object is to explain the name, calorie, a 
unit in which the energy value of food is now 
universally expressed. The calorie is that 
quantity of heat energy required to raise the 
temperature of one kilogram of water by one 
degree centigrade, or, more precisely, from a 
temperature of 1 5 to that of 1 6. Now, while 
every one is quite familiar with differences of 
temperature, the conception of quantities of 
heat is not quite so easily grasped. Perhaps 
the distinction may be realized by reference 
to the homely illustration of a hot-water bottle 
used to warm the bed. It will be granted at 
once that if only a table-spoonful of boiling 
water is put into the bottle, very little benefit 
will result, whereas if it is filled with water, 
at the same temperature as before, the bed 
may be comfortably warmed. Thus, the heat 
required to raise the temperature of two kilo- 
grams of water by one degree is double that 
required for one kilogram, and the amount of 
heat energy contained in the former is twice 
that in the latter. 



22 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

The reason why the energy value of food is 
expressed in heat units is, that this is the most 
convenient practical method of determining 
the total energy that can be obtained from the 
food. It is done by burning a known weight 
of the foodstuff in oxygen and measuring the 
amount of heat produced by the combustion. 
The heat is caused to raise the temperature of 
a known amount of water. 

But it is very important to remember that 
the whole of the energy of food is not ne- 
cessarily converted directly into heat in the 
body. It is used more economically, as the 
second law of energetics tells us, by direct 
conversion into other forms of energy. In 
the contraction of muscle, for example, the 
potential energy present before activity is con- 
verted into that of the pull exerted, without 
any loss as heat. It is only in the subsequent 
recovery process that a loss occurs. Of course 
the production of heat is not altogether a loss, 
at all events when the external temperature 
is lower than that of the body. Heat is 
necessary to keep up the normal temperature. 
But, nevertheless, the distinction sometimes 



THE USES OF FOOD 23 

made between " flesh-forming" food, by 
which protein is meant, and " heat-forming " 
food is misleading. It suggests that protein 
is the special food for muscle, that non-nitro- 
genous kinds of food form heat only, with the 
exclusion of energy of other kinds, and that 
protein itself does not form heat. None of 
these statements is correct. 

Oxygen. No energy can be obtained from 
food unless it is burnt by combustion with 
oxygen. Oxygen is consumed in all active 
organs of the body, as shown by the dark 
colour of the blood in the veins leaving 
them. As can easily be tested by any one, 
blood becomes bright red when shaken with 
oxygen or air, dark crimson when the oxygen 
is removed. The bluish colour of the veins 
is due to reflected light. Since oxygen is uni- 
versally present in the atmosphere, it is not 
usually regarded as a food ; but it is really 
the most important of all foods. 

In point of fact, however, it is not easy 
to explain the obviously beneficial effects of 
fresh air. There is no actual deficiency of 
oxygen in many rooms which seem " stuffy," 



24 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

so that the cause of the unpleasant results of 
remaining in such places must lie in some 
other factor. A partial explanation may be, 
as Leonard Hill contends, that the effect is 
due to the absence of currents of air and the 
stimulation of the skin produced by them. 
It would thus be a result of failure of stimu- 
lation of the nervous system. The general 
experience of more refreshing sleep obtained 
when the bedroom window is open tends 
to support the view of the importance of 
the effect on peripheral sense-organs. The 
benefit of a cold bath is probably of a similar 
nature, as also that of exercise, to a certain 
degree. Further remarks on the question of 
exercise will be found below. 



CHAPTER III 

THE THREE CLASSES OF FOODSTUFFS 

AFTER this somewhat lengthy, but neces- 
sary, physiological introduction, we are in a 
position to consider with profit the materials 
actually consumed for food and to deduce 
practical conclusions as to their use and 
value. Readers who desire more informa- 
tion on the physiology of nutrition may con- 
sult the textbook by Lusk (1909), or those 
sections of the works of Starling (1915), or 
of the present author (1915), which deal with 
the subject. The titles of these books are 
given in the list at the end of this manual. 

In order to produce new growth or to 
replace tissue lost, nitrogen, as well as car- 
bon, hydrogen and oxygen, is required, be- 
cause these elements are contained in the 
new tissue. Proteins, therefore, in some 

25 



26 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

form, are a necessary component of an ade- 
quate diet. Other articles of diet do not 
contain available nitrogen. Protein, more- 
over, is able, if taken in sufficient amount, 
to afford all the energy required. But, in 
order to do this, a large excess of the nitro- 
genous component of protein must be dealt 
with by the body ; and, since this nitrogenous 
part affords no appreciable energy and is 
greatly in excess of that needed for building 
or repairing purposes, it is merely wasted. 
The energy to be obtained from protein is 
practically the same as that of an equal 
weight of sugar ; but since, as we shall see, 
it is the most costly of all food materials, to 
use it for the supply of energy only would 
be very wasteful, provided that other mate- 
rials are capable of serving the purpose. It 
is as if we were to use for fuel in a petrol 
motor a petroleum spirit containing copper 
in fine powder. The copper would merely 
drain away from the cylinder in the waste 
lubricating oil, just as the excess nitrogen 
of protein leaves our bodies in the form of 
urea in the urine, without having fulfilled 



THREE CLASSES OF FOODSTUFFS 27 

any useful purpose in the activities of the 
organism. The energy value of proteins is, 
in fact, only a trifle greater than that of their 
hydrocarbon part alone. 

Now it is familiar to every one that there 
are many substances in the world which give 
out energy in the form of heat when they 
are burnt. Such are charcoal, metallic mag- 
nesium, paraffin candles, as well as butter or 
sugar. None of these contains nitrogen. 
As regards the materials typified by the first 
three mentioned, the higher animals possess 
no agents in the alimentary canal capable 
of rendering them soluble in such a way as 
to be able to gain admission to the blood. 
Even if they did so, the oxidizing mechanisms 
of the body would be unable to deal with 
them, although it appears that certain micro- 
organisms can utilize paraffin oil. Cotton 
fibre also is useless for man's food, although 
herbivorous animals make use of it ; it is 
said that sheep grow fat on blotting paper. 
The second things mentioned, typified by 
butter and sugar, on the other hand, can be 
11 digested," as we call the process of acting 



28 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

upon them so as to make them able to be 
oxidized. They are then burnt in such a 
way as to render their energy available in 
some form or other. 

Butter and sugar represent two classes of 
food stuffs, the fats and the carbohydrates, 
both of which are consumed for the purpose 
of affording energy. The energy require- 
ment of the adult being at least nine times 
as great, as regards weight of the food taken, 
as that of the nitrogen requirement, the 
advantage of using cheaper forms than that 
of protein is obvious. 

A word or two may be said with respect 
to the chemical nature of fats and carbo- 
hydrates. Fats are compounds of glycerin 
with acids containing a large number of 
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but the 
oxygen contained is much less than that 
with which the carbon and hydrogen are 
capable of combining. Hence they afford 
much energy when burnt. Butter, lard, suet, 
olive oil are examples of nearly pure fats, 
but fat is a constituent of most natural food- 



THREE CLASSES OF FOODSTUFFS 29 

stuffs in varying quantity. On account of 
their content in glycerin, fats are required in 
large amount for the manufacture of those 
explosives which contain nitro-glycerin. 

Carbohydrates are so called because their 
composition is such that they contain carbon, 
hydrogen and oxygen in such proportions as 
to possess sufficient oxygen to combine with 
the whole of the hydrogen to form water. 
For this reason, they give scarcely more 
energy than that of the carbon which they 
contain. But, owing to their abundance, 
they form very valuable foodstuffs. They 
are met with in a variety of forms starch, 
a prominent constituent of wheat and other 
cereals and of potatoes ; sugar, of which 
there are several kinds distinguished by the 
chemist : cane sugar, found especially in the 
sugar-cane and in beetroot, malt sugar in 
malt, milk sugar or lactose in milk, glucose 
and fructose in fruits, honey, etc. All the 
natural carbohydrates are, for practical pur- 
poses, to be regarded as identical in energy 
value as foods, although some of them 



30 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

require preliminary treatment, mostly of a 
simple kind, by digestive enzymes, before 
they can be utilized by the organism. 

Natural foodstuffs, especially those of vege- 
table origin, contain, as a rule, indigestible 
matter in greater or less amount. Although 
this is valueless for building or energy pur- 
poses, it has its importance in preventing 
constipation by the stimulating effect on the 
contractions of the intestinal tube. A diet 
consisting of materials of too digestible a 
nature gives trouble on this account. Hence 
the importance of the fibre in fruit and 
vegetables, the outer part of the wheat grain 
in whole-meal bread, and so on. 

Of the three classes protein, fat and carbo- 
hydrate we see that the two latter may be 
looked upon as having the same function, 
that of giving energy ; so that, in a diet, 
they may be replaced one by the other. 
The reasons for using both will be seen 
later. Protein is indispensable, because it 
forms part of the machinery of the living 
cell. But, just as we have seen that protein 
has also its energy value, so it appears that 



THREE CLASSES OF FOODSTUFFS 31 

the cell machinery requires both carbo- 
hydrate and fat in particular forms, not only 
to facilitate its working, but probably also 
as actual parts of the machine. This, how- 
ever, uses up but a very small fraction of 
the total consumption, which is almost en- 
tirely for energy purposes. At the same 
time, it would be a great mistake to un- 
dervalue the importance of substances on 
account of their relatively small amount, as 
we shall see presently. 



CHAPTER IV 

THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 

THE following are the quantities which 
are generally accepted at the present time 
as a sufficient daily diet for a man of average 
weight, doing a moderate amount of muscular 
work. 





Weight in 
Grams. 


Weight 
in Oz. 


Enerpy Value 
in Calories. 


Protein . . . 


IOO 


375 


400 


Fat .... 


100 


3'75 


900 


Carbohydrates . 


500 


iS'oo 


2OOO 



Total Energy Value, 3300 calories 

Of course, the energy value must be greater 
if more work is done, and conversely : so 
that we may have such figures as these 
3 2 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 88 

Light work . 3000 calories 

Moderate work . 3500 ,, 

Heavy work . 4000 or more calories 

Since part of our food is consumed for 
the purpose of maintaining the body tem- 
perature, in cold weather the total calorie 
requirement is greater than in hot weather. 
Thus, according to Langworthy (1908), the 
average energy value of the diet of the 
Egyptian labourer is 2825. In the Tropics, 
indeed, where the external temperature may 
be higher than that of the body, it would 
clearly be of advantage if no heat were 
produced. But the machinery, as a whole, 
is not of the high degree of efficiency re- 
quired for this to be the case. Heat, 
therefore, must be got rid of, chiefly by 
evaporation of sweat, but the actual pro- 
duction tends to be kept as low as possible 
by reduction of unnecessary muscular work. 

It may be noticed that chief stress seems 
to be laid in diet tables on the energy or 
calorie value of the food. This is justified 
by the fact, already mentipned, that, if any 



34 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

reasonable kind of combination of foodstuffs 
be consumed, it will be found that, if taken 
in the amount necessary to afford the energy 
value, sufficient protein will be contained in 
it without further addition. Natural food- 
stuffs, even potatoes, contain more protein 
than is often supposed to be the case. Pure 
products extracted from parts of plants or 
animals, such as sugar or oil, are not likely 
to be made the sole articles of a diet. 

We may put the matter thus : 

" Take care of the calories and the protein 
will take care of itself." 

On the other hand, if a large proportion of 
the diet is made up of sugar or fat, it may be 
necessary to take account of the protein value 
of the remainder. 

Some readers may have observed that the 
number of calories given in the table on 
page 33 refer only to muscular work. They 
may ask, What about mental work ? This is 
a rather difficult problem. The energy value 
of the diet for a man engaged in such work 
is sometimes given as the same as that of 
a man doing very light mechanical work. 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 35 

Now, this is possibly correct, since, so far as 
we know, the actual consumption of energy 
in mental processes is not great. But there 
is another consideration which, as it seems 
to me, should be taken into account. The 
oxygen consumed by an organ, as we have 
seen, is an index of the exchange of energy 
therein, or, for our present purpose, an index 
of the food required by the organ. So far 
as experimental results go, it seems to be the 
fact that the actual consumption of oxygen 
in the nerve centres is not great, but, on the 
other hand, it has to be supplied at a high 
pressure. This is shown by the fact that 
even momentary stoppage of the blood 
supply causes immediate unconsciousness, 
although the oxygen of the blood still re- 
maining in the brain cannot have been ex- 
hausted. It is somewhat as if we had an 
electro-magnet which does not need much 
current to actuate it, but, owing to the wire 
with which it is wound being of a high 
resistance, a high voltage is necessary to 
drive even a small current through. Should 
the brain be an analogous case, it seems 



36 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

possible that, although the actual consump- 
tion of food is not great, yet this food may 
require to be presented at a high pressure, 
and that to attain this high pressure it might 
be necessary to take a diet of an energy 
value equivalent to that of moderate muscular 
work. But this should certainly be sufficient, 
and the question is not yet decided. 

In reckoning the food-supply necessary for 
a population consisting of men, women and 
children of various ages, it is convenient to 
convert the total number of individuals to 
some common unit. Since women and 
children, on the average, consume less than 
men, it will be clear that the number of men 
to which the total population is equivalent is 
less than the total number of individuals. A 
factor calculated from the average proportion 
of men to women and children is very nearly 
075. Thus, the total number of "men" for 
whom the standard ration has to be provided 
is obtained with a considerable degree of ac- 
curacy by taking three-quarters of the whole 
population. This is known as the man-value. 

Tables have been drawn up by Professor 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 87 

Thompson (1916) and others, from returns 
of the Board of Agriculture and other sources, 
which give the total food supply of the United 
Kingdom as it was just before the War. 
There are, naturally, gaps in these lists, on 
account of the fact that the returns do not 
include the food consumed by people who 
grow it, farmers especially. This has to be 
estimated. But, on the whole, there would 
not be any considerable error on this account, 
and the various tables drawn up by differ- 
ent persons show a somewhat remarkable 
agreement. 

Now, at the present time, it is of vital 
importance that soldiers in the field, and also 
of course the men of the Navy, should have 
a completely adequate supply. The follow- 
ing is generally taken to be such a diet 

War Ration in the Field 

Protein . . .158 grams 
Fat .... 200 ,, 

Carbohydrate . .514 ,, 
Energy Value, 4600 calories 



38 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

The protein supply is, perhaps, rather un- 
necessarily high, for the reasons that will 
appear presently, but this is an error on the 
right side, in any case. The carbohydrate 
might possibly be increased with advantage, 
even at the expense of a little less meat. 
There is, without a doubt, a great desire 
for chocolate and cakes on the part of 
soldiers on active service. One can hardly 
suppose that this desire is entirely devoid of 
physiological basis. 

After deducting that part of our food 
supply required for the Army and Navy, it 
will be found, by any one who will take the 
trouble to make the calculation, that what is 
left for the civilian population will supply an 
average diet per "man" approximately as 
follows 

Protein . . .109 grams 
Fat . . -123 

Carbohydrate . .514 ,, 
Energy Value, 3700 calories 

This assumes that the supply is not less than 
before the War, and it must also be remem- 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 39 

bered that the number of soldiers to be fed 
is increasing. The protein ration is no 
greater than the standard given above for 
moderate muscular work. While, therefore, 
there is no ground for alarm as regards the 
possibility of starvation, it will be plain that 
it is the duty of those who do not require so 
much as this to reduce it as far as possible. 
Any one who takes more than his share is 
depriving some one else of part of his. 
Hence the need for some kind of regulation 
of food consumption. But there is also, or 
should be, the desire to limit unnecessary 
expense. Anything saved by this means 
serves to augment the resources of the 
nation by enabling the purchase of War 
Loan, or in similar ways. We see, then, the 
need for the regulation of prices of food ; and 
also that it is incumbent on us all to choose 
the sources of our food as far as possible 
from those of least cost. 

The Belgian Food Commission. It is of 
interest to consider briefly the feeding of the 
Belgian population by the American Com- 
mission as an application of some of the 



40 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

principles given in the previous pages. I 
must here express my admiration for the 
wonderful organization by which this is being 
done. Humanity owes a debt of gratitude 
to our American brethren, which it is to be 
hoped will never be forgotten. 

The object of this Commission has been to 
supply to all a uniform ration of 2000 calories 
per day, chiefly by means of a system of 
tickets enabling bread to be bought at a 
price which enables a small profit to be made 
by the Commission. But other foodstuffs, 
such as potatoes, beans, sugar and lard, are 
supplied. It was found that people could be 
kept in health at a cost of three and a half 
pence per day. Owing to the excellent 
method adopted, the bread can be sold at a 
comparatively cheap rate (see Commission for 
Relief in Belgium, Report 1916, and the 
pamphlet by Mr. Robinson Smith, 1916). 

But this diet alone is only just about the 
minimum required to keep body and soul 
together. So that, if there is an impossibility 
of getting sufficient supplies, as has happened 
in Lille, the death-rate goes up. The nor- 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 41 

mal mortality of 20 per thousand rose to 30 
in December 1915, to 40 in March 1916. 
Those, however, who are well-to-do purchase 
additional food for themselves, and the profit 
from the sale of bread is distributed to the 
destitute. This latter item is very consider- 
able, owing to the magnitude of the whole 
undertaking. Over one million pounds profit 
was earned up to October 3ist, 1915. It 
should be remembered that the work of organ- 
ization is voluntary, but that there are large 
expenses involved in the distribution and so 
on. This has to be met by subscriptions 
from friends outside. Up to October 3ist, 
1915, these amounted to three and a half 
million pounds. The bread supplied appears 
to be of excellent quality. Rice and other 
foodstuffs can also be purchased from the 
Commission. Rice, in fact, is sold in Bel- 
gium at one-half the peace price. It is satis- 
factory to know that very strict means are 
taken to ensure that no part of the food finds 
its way to the Germans ; and, so far, it seems 
that escape of this kind has not occurred to 
any important degree. I refer to this work 



42 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

as an illustration of what is possible under 
very difficult conditions. 

Actual Value of some Foods. In order to 
give a concrete meaning to the figures given 
above for a standard diet, the calorie value 
and contents in protein, fat and carbohydrate 
of certain articles are given below. 

NUMBER OF GRAMS REQUIRED TO PRODUCE 
100 CALORIES 

( 28 '35 grams =i oz.) 
Butter. . . . 13-5 

Cheddar Cheese . . .22 
Sugar . . . 24-5 

Oatmeal . , . .28 
Mutton . . . .29 

Fish 67 

Eggs 68 

Milk ..... 145 

100 grams of protein are contained in 
Steak . . . i8'5 oz. 

Milk .... 5 pints 
Oatmeal . . . i -5 Ib. 
Peas, Dried . . ., 13-5 oz. 
Bread . . . 2-5 Ib. 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 43 

100 grams cffat are contained in 
Butter .... 4*5 oz. 

500 grams of carbohydrate are contained 
in 

Bread . . . 2 Ib. 2 oz. 
Oatmeal . . . i Ib. 1 1 oz. 
Potatoes . . . 7*5 Ib. 
Sugar . . i Ib. 2 oz. 

The percentage composition of bread is as 

follows 

Water 36 

Protein 9-5 

Fat i 

Carbohydrate . . -53 

Ash, etc. . . . . 1-5 

Calories per pound, 1215. 

The composition of bread varies some- 
what, but we see that, taken in the correct 
quantity, it forms an excellent basal con- 
stituent of diet, being deficient only in fat. 
Further particulars regarding individual 
articles of diet will be found below. The 



44 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

detailed tables in Miss McKillop's book 
(1916) and, for convenient calculation, the 
triangle method of Irving Fisher (1905) will 
be useful. 

Minimum of Protein required. Although 
100 grams of protein is usually recognized 
as that of a satisfactory diet, there is evidence 
that, at all events for healthy individuals, 
this quantity may be unnecessarily large. 
The question is a somewhat difficult one, 
but must not be shirked. It has been 
pointed out above that all ordinary diets 
likely to be adopted will automatically con- 
tain as much protein as 100 grams. But 
should it be necessary in any circumstances 
to reduce the protein ration to some extent, 
no alarm need be felt. This conclusion is 
forced upon us by several facts, to which 
we must denote a small space. The de- 
terminations of Hamill and Schryver (1906) 
showed that the protein consumption of 
many persons during their regular work, 
and taking their ordinary diet, was less than 
100 grams, of some as low as 76 grams. 
Further, from the theoretical point of view 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 45 

it is not easy to see why so much nitro- 
genous food should be necessary, since, in 
the adult, the only function of the nitro- 
genous part of the protein is to replace wear 
and tear. We have not very accurate 
determinations of what this amount actually 
is, but the muscular system may be fairly 
taken as a representative one. Now the 
most careful and accurate experiments show 
that, so long as the work does not result in 
excessive fatigue, no increase of nitrogen 
consumption can be detected (see Cathcart, 
1912, p. 109). Naturally, this fact does not 
imply that there is no wear and tear in the 
muscle machinery, but that it is too small 
to be detected. The fuel consumed in 
muscular work is carbohydrate, when there 
is sufficient supply, although fat and even 
the non-nitrogenous part of protein can be 
utilized (see Benedict and Cathcart, 1913, 
pp. 71, etc.). 

Some further evidence is of interest. In 
the feeding of pigs, it has been found that 
these animals may be kept on a diet free 
from protein for three weeks without losing 



46 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

weight. Fat pigs, of course, do not lead 
a very strenuous existence, but the heart, 
muscles of respiration, and the digestive 
organs are in activity ; and in fact, a small 
amount of nitrogen was being continually 
excreted. 

To some extent, the amount of nitrogen 
excreted on a diet of full energy value, but 
devoid of protein, is a guide to the amount 
of wear and tear of the tissues. This 
amounts to about 29 grams of protein per 
day, according to Cathcart's experiments on 
men. 

But perhaps the most striking experiments 
are those reported by Hindhede (1913) from 
the Nutrition Institute of Copenhagen. They 
were made on a laboratory servant of 70 kilos 
weight. But, in order to apprize their value, 
it must be remembered that the subject was 
a man of exceptional intelligence, taking a 
great interest in the work going on, and what 
is perhaps of more importance, is that he 
appears to have been of unusually good health 
and strength. Another fact which greatly 
facilitated the experiments was, that the 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 47 

subject was able to live on a diet consisting 
exclusively of potatoes, cooked in a particular 
way with margarine and a little onion. This 
man, in one experiment, continued his regular 
duties for 150 days on a diet whose average 
calorie value was 4000, with a protein content 
of 29 grams, per day. In another experiment, 
in vacation time, he undertook hard work as 
mason and labourer for 95 days on a diet with 
an energy value of 5000 calories and a protein 
content of 43 grams. At the end of the 
experiment, the subject was in perfect health 
and anxious to commence another experiment. 
He had, however, lost altogether, on the 
general balance, about 35 grams of protein 
from his tissues. This is less than one day's 
consumption. The contrast between the 
consumption of protein in this case and the 
standard 100 grams is obvious. But it is 
probable that the result was due to the subject 
being an unusually strong and healthy man ; 
and the interest of the experiments is that 
they show the possibility of a perfectly 
adequate diet containing less than one-third 
of the so-called standard amount of protein. 



48 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

This latter ration is therefore well on the 
generous side, and a small reduction need not 
be objected to. 

The uncertainty about the real protein 
standard necessitates caution in drawing con- 
clusions as to the poverty of individuals from 
their protein consumption. In Rowntree's 
valuable work " Poverty, a Study in Town 
Life" the author has adopted Atwater's 
standard of 1 25 grams as the minimum protein 
ration, and therefore finds that 27% of the 
population of York are living in poverty, 
because their protein consumption is below 
this figure, a conclusion by no means justified. 
When the statement is made that certain 
familieswhose income was less than twenty-six 
shillings a week, were in an unsatisfactory 
state of nutrition because they consumed only 
89 grams of protein, and a total energy value 
in diet of 2685 calories, we can hardly regard 
the protein as really deficient, and the calorie 
value could probably have been increased by 
the addition of some such food as oatmeal at a 
very small cost : if necessary, by the omission 
of part of the more costly form of protein. 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 49 

A special value has been ascribed to protein 
diet on various grounds. But, if we examine 
these, we are bound to admit that the evidence 
is not particularly strong. There is a re- 
markable fact in connection with protein food, 
known by the name of " specific dynamic 
energy." The explanation of this behaviour 
has not yet been satisfactorily given. To put 
the matter simply, it means that when a meal 
of protein is taken and the total combustion 
of the body measured during the few hours 
immediately succeeding, this combustion is 
found to be in excess of that which could 
have been obtained from the protein alone. 
It must have increased the rate of combustion 
of other materials present in the organism. 
So far as the experimental results go, it would 
seem that this excess merely disappeared as 
heat, a result which might or might not be 
an advantage. It does not necessarily follow, 
however, that the energy is not available for 
other purposes, as for muscular contraction, 
if required, and it has been supposed that 
protein does in fact afford special fuel for 
times of unusual exertion. The experience 



50 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

of alpine guides, however, does not favour 
this view. They are known to take with them 
on mountain excursions refreshment such as 
raisins, which contain chiefly sugar and very 
little protein. It must be admitted that indi- 
viduals differ in this respect. When taking 
food for a long day's walk, for example, some 
prefer meat sandwiches ; others, of whom I 
am one, have far more appetite for such 
things as cake and fruit. From what we 
know to be the usual fuel burnt for muscular 
work, carbohydrate would be expected to be 
the more appropriate. Some individuals may 
be able to utilize the non-nitrogenous portion 
of protein more readily than they do carbo- 
hydrate. A difficulty in regarding protein as 
valuable in affording energy in times of strain 
is that there is no storage of it in the body, 
except in the form of increase in the actual 
structure of the organs and tissues. In this 
respect, it differs from both fat and carbo- 
hydrate. Any special value it has must be 
manifested while it is being absorbed from 
the alimentary canal. 

It has also been stated that a danger of a 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 51 

low protein consumption is a liability to suffer 
more from infectious disease. But no definite 
evidence has been brought forward to show 
that this is the case. 

On the whole, it seems that it would be 
perfectly safe for healthy people to limit their 
protein consumption to some extent, even 
below the standard 100 grams. Those in 
less robust health should proceed carefully. 
In any case, it is probable that at first some 
degree of discomfort might be experienced, 
as indeed would be the temporary result of 
any reduction in the total amount of food 
consumed. 

There is one point with regard to which 
erroneous statements are sometimes made. 
That is, that the products of the chemical 
changes which protein undergoes in the body 
are injurious or poisonous. This is not so. 
Urea is a perfectly innocuous substance, de- 
void of active chemical properties. So is 
uric acid, notwithstanding the nonsense of 
newspaper advertisements. Although uric 
acid is found in gouty deposits, there is no 
reason to suppose that it is the cause of the 



52 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

general disorder of nutrition known as 
gout. 

Turning next to the two sources of energy, 
we may note that it is possible to supply all 
the energy required by means of either fat or 
carbohydrate, so that we may ask, Why do we 
take both ? 

The vise of carbohydrate is fairly obvious 
on the ground of its cheapness, but there is 
also reason to believe that it is of great im- 
portance, if not essential, to the utilization of 
proteins (see Cathcart, 1912, p. 1 16). It has, 
indeed, been suggested that this is the reason 
why in diabetes, although carbohydrate is 
carefully withheld, nevertheless the organism 
continues to produce sugar out of other 
materials. 

The chief value of fat is in the ease with 
which it is stored, almost in unlimited quan- 
tity, chiefly in the so-called connective tissue 
which fills up spaces between organs in the 
body and forms a layer under the skin. Al- 
though carbohybrate is also stored, in the 
form of glycogen, a kind of starch, in the 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 58 

liver and muscles, this takes place only to a 
limited extent. We notice that both these 
foodstuffs, fat and carbohydrate, enable a 
store of reserve material to be kept for use 
when required to give energy. 

Although, however, the fat of food is easily 
stored, the experience of farmers in fattening 
cattle shows that fat is formed out of carbo- 
hydrate. Therefore, even on a carbohydrate 
diet, a store of fat may be laid up. It is 
perhaps not so easily done as from fatty 
food. 

Fat has another advantage over carbo- 
hydrate in that, weight for weight, it has 
a higher energy value ; but this, of course, 
could be compensated by consuming a some- 
what larger proportion of the carbohydrate 
diet. 

It is sometimes stated that fat is more 
easily digested than carbohydrate. This de- 
pends on the particular kind of each taken, 
especially as regards its physical condition ot 
subdivision. For example, the fat in milk is 
probably more digestible than raw starch, but 
it is very unlikely that cold mutton fat is more 



54 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

easily digested than sugar. Pavlov showed 
that fat in the stomach retards the secretion 
of gastric juice. Neither carbohydrate nor 
fat is digested, to any important degree, in 
the stomach itself, but both are rapidly at- 
tacked by the pancreatic juice in the small 
intestine. The sugar, especially, which is 
produced, is rapidly absorbed, whether it 
comes from the starch or from the sugar of 
other kinds in the food. When the stomach 
is not in a healthy state, both carbohydrates 
and fats in large amount are apt to cause 
indigestion, the sugar being easily subject to 
a fermentation by microbes present. An 
irritable stomach does not like the presence 
of matter which it cannot digest. 

On the whole, it would appear that the 
practical value of fat consists chiefly in its 
use in cooking. Very few attractive dishes 
could be made without it, and we shall find 
presently how important is the fact that food 
should be eaten with relish. But, in any 
case, it is rather difficult to understand why 
the scarcity of fat is so severely felt in 
Germany. 



THE QUANTITY REQUIRED 55 

I am unable to follow the objections taken 
by some to the use of sugar as a food. Un- 
doubtedly, when carbohydrate is taken in the 
form of natural grains or roots, other valuable 
substances are taken with it. But the starch 
present is all converted into sugar before 
being of any service to the organism, while 
the other constituents, so far as they are 
necessary, can be obtained elsewhere. There 
is no reason to reject sugar as a valuable 
foodstuff, so long as it does not make up 
too large a proportion of the total energy 
value of the diet. In fact, any objection to 
it can only be of a negative kind. 



CHAPTER V 

ACCESSORY FACTORS, OR "VITAMINEs" 

THERE are certain essential constituents of 
an adequate diet to which, as yet, no refer- 
ence has been made. Although they are 
present in very small amount in most natural 
foods and their chemical nature is unknown, 
healthy life is impossible in their absence. 

They are best called "accessory factors." 
Unfortunately, the name "vitamines" was 
given to them under the mistaken impression 
that they had been separated in a pure state 
from foods, and that their chemical nature 
had been determined. The name has come 
into use, even in the daily Press. If used, it 
must be understood that the substances re- 
ferred to are not " amines" in the chemical 
sense, and the word must be taken as a mere 
name, not conveying any meaning by its 
derivation. 

56 



ACCESSORY FACTORS 57 

It was discovered by Captain Cook (1776, 
p. 405) that, in order to preserve the health 
of his crew on long voyages, it was necessary 
for them to take every opportunity of obtain- 
ing fresh food. The preserved food taken 
on the ship was deficient in something. The 
passage in which Captain Cook describes his 
experience is worth quoting 

" We came to few places where either the 
art of man or nature did not afford some sort 
of refreshment or other, either of the animal 
or vegetable kind. It was my first care to 
procure what could be met with of either by 
every means in my power, and to oblige our 
people to make use thereof, both by my 
example and authority ; but the benefits 
arising from such refreshments soon became 
so obvious that I had little occasion to 
employ either the one or the other." 

Further discoveries in this field are of 
comparatively recent date. Stepp found, in 
1909, that alcohol removed something from 
bread and milk, so that it was no longer able 
to serve as food for rats. When, however, 



58 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

the alcohol was boiled off from the extract, 
the residue, even in small quantity, added 
to the inadequate bread and milk, restored 
its value. Hopkins, in 1912, showed that a 
diet of purified foodstuffs was incapable of 
serving as a food for growing rats, but that 
the addition of a minute amount of fresh 
milk made the same diet altogether satis- 
factory. Subsequent investigations showed 
that the substances concerned are to be 
found in fresh food of all kinds, vegetable 
and animal, and that they will stand a certain 
amount of boiling or heating, so long as the 
medium is not alkaline. They are apt to be 
destroyed by long preservation, although 
some are stable in acid solutions. Lime- 
juice, which is strongly acid, is well known 
to retain its protective power against scurvy, 
which is one of the results of absence of the 
accessory factors, for a considerable time. 
There is evidently a variety of these acces- 
sory factors ; for example, there is one in 
the outer coat of rice which prevents the 
occurrence of the disease " beri-beri," caused 
by the exclusive use of polished rice. 



ACCESSORY FACTORS 59 

Further, there is evidence that they may be 
divided into two groups, neither of which 
is effective for growth without the other. 
McCollum and Davis (1915) find that rats 
will not grow on polished rice, even if wheat 
germ be added ; nor will they grow if butter 
alone is added. Both together made the 
diet an adequate one. That contained in 
wheat germ is soluble in water, not in fat, 
and may be called the "water-soluble B 
factor," the other is the " fat-soluble A 
factor." From Hopkins's experiments, fresh 
milk must contain both of these. 

It has been noticed in experiments on the 
effect of absence of these factors, that the 
deleterious effects do not come on at once. 
They are subject to a delay of some days. 
This shows that they do not rapidly dis- 
appear, although they must be present in 
very small quantity. The fact indicates that 
they do not undergo chemical change, like 
the foodstuffs properly so called. The way 
in which they act is unknown, but the 
chemist will be reminded of the phenomena 
called " catalytic." The mode of action of 



60 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

the digestive agents known as "enzymes" is 
also catalytic. 

An interesting fact is that plants are 
dependent for normal growth on similar 
factors. The first case in which the ques- 
tion was investigated was that of yeast, by 
Wildiers in 1901. This work was done at 
the ill-fated University of Louvain, whose 
wanton destruction has aroused the execra- 
tion of all civilized nations. The more 
recent work of Bottomley indicates that these 
plant factors may be destined to play an 
important part in the cultivation of vegetable 
foodstuffs. 

The practical application of the facts 
described in this section is that in a diet 
composed of a fair variety of foodstuffs, 
inclusive of fresh vegetables or fruit, there 
is no risk of absence of the necessary acces- 
sory factors. But when a monotonous diet 
is taken, such as rice, it is important that 
the material should not be too much pre- 
pared by artificial means, such as the polish- 
ing of rice to produce a white appearance. 



CHAPTER VI 

DIGESTIBILITY 

THERE are many constituents of foodstuffs 
as bought which are not digested at all, 
although, if burnt in air, they are capable of 
giving energy. This has already been men- 
tioned incidentally. Materials of this kind 
are the cellulose constituents, woody fibres 
and so on of plants and some parts of the 
fibrous or tendinous parts of meat. These, 
of course, must not be reckoned as com- 
ponents of the daily ration. They have 
their value, however, in promoting intestinal 
movements. 

There are also some constituents which 
are only partially utilized, because they are 
not quickly digested and do not remain long 
enough in the alimentary canal to be fully 

acted upon. Such are the proteins of nuts. 

61 



62 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

In giving to such proteins their proper value, 
therefore, it must not be reckoned as that of 
the total content in protein, but only some 
8o%of it. Tables in which the proportion 
digested of various foods is shown will be 
found in Lusk's book (1909). 

Many facts of practical importance have 
come to light through Pavlov's experiments 
(1910), especially as regards gastric diges- 
tion. In the first place, it was found that 
the mere presence of food in the stomach 
was insufficient to excite secretion of gastric 
juice, except after some considerable time. 
The chief stimulus is that the food should be 
approached with appetite, the stimulus being 
conveyed through the nervous system. With- 
out appetite, scarcely any gastric juice is 
formed. When Macbeth wishes for his guests 
that good digestion may wait on appetite, it 
seems that he was stating a truism. The 
value of attractiveness in food preparations 
is shown hereby, as is also the mistake made 
by some well-meaning food reformers who 
would wish to confine us to plain food. Of 
course, mere ornamentation of cakes and con- 



DIGESTIBILITY 63 

fectionery is wasteful of time and material, 
but variety in form and flavouring, as also 
in mode of preparation, is to be approved 
of. This would especially apply to the 
present time, when it is desirable to limit 
the consumption of meat. 

It is important to distinguish between 
hunger and appetite. The former, as shown 
especially by Carlson (1916), rests upon sen- 
sations derived from muscular contractions of 
the empty stomach. The latter is rather an 
anticipation of pleasures to be obtained from 
sensations of taste. Hunger, as Carlson re- 
marks, is probably never felt by many people 
at the present day, because the physiological 
state is absent. The gastric contractions in 
question originate in the stomach itself and 
are of quite a different nature from those 
which take place during the process of di- 
gestion. These latter serve to bring in turn 
all the food under the action of the digestive 
juices, and, in due course, propel it into the 
next following section of the alimentary canal. 

It was mentioned above that, although the 
presence of food in the stomach by itself 



64 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

alone does not lead to any immediate secre- 
tion of gastric juice, after a time some 
secretion appears. This is due to the direct 
effect of products of digestion and is produced 
also by introduction of meat extracts and 
other substances into the stomach. The use 
of soup to commence dinner with finds its 
justification in this fact, especially when 
fatigue has blunted the appetite. Perhaps 
bitters or vermouth may sometimes be use- 
ful under such conditions, but alcohol in any 
form must be regarded as an aid of psychical 
import only. Its direct effect on all digestive 
processes is a retarding one. Carlson (1916, 
pp. 293 and 297) shows that bitters, used 
medicinally, neither increase hunger nor pro- 
duce any effect on the amount or activity of 
the gastric juice. 

There are one or two erroneous impres- 
sions as to the value of some particular foods 
that need correction. 

The first of these is that raw eggs are 
more easily digested than cooked ones. The 
contrary has been shown by careful experi- 
ments to be the case. Of course, if the 



DIGESTIBILITY 65 

white is boiled hard, it must be finely divided 
by chewing, otherwise the gastric juice can 
only attack it slowly from the outside. Prob- 
ably the best form is that of custard. The 
reason why raw egg-white is difficult of 
digestion is that it contains something, in 
small amount, which has a powerful retarding 
or inhibiting action on the digestive enzymes. 
This is destroyed by heat. 

Arrowroot and cornflour are popularly 
supposed to be specially digestible foods for 
invalids. In fact, they are chiefly starch, and 
apparently no better than other forms of 
starchy food. Very little protein is contained 
in them. Gelatin, again, is not a complete 
protein and should not be relied upon to 
any extent to replace true proteins. These 
considerations are of importance in feeding 
patients recovering from any wasting disease. 
It will be obvious that they require plenty of 
material to build up the tissues that have 
been lost. 

Fatty substances are not digested in the 
stomach and, as Pavlov showed, tend to 
oppose the secretion of gastric juice. In a 



66 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

healthy stomach, and especially when in a 
finely divided state, as in milk and cream, 
they produce no disturbance and are easily 
digested in the small intestine. This applies, 
as is well known, even to the case of illness. 



CHAPTER VII 

ALCOHOL 

AT this point some further remarks with 
regard to the use of alcoholic "stimulants" 
are necessary. 

Some intemperate advocates of Temper- 
ance have unfortunately done harm to their 
cause by making statements which their 
opponents are able to disprove. One of 
these is the denial that alcohol is in any 
sense a food. 

Its energy value, when burnt outside the 
body, is high, amounting to 708 calories for 
100 grams as against 400 for carbohydrate 
or protein. It has been stated that it is not 
burnt in the body, or only to a very slight 
extent. This is not true. It is excreted 
unaltered in small amount after considerable 
quantities have been taken, but by far the 

greater quantity is oxidized to afford energy. 

67 



68 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

The real objections to its use are of 
another kind and chiefly on account of its 
action on the brain before it has had time to 
be burned up. Although it appears to be a 
stimulant, this impression is due to an 
incorrect interpretation of the effects ob- 
served. It is really a narcotic. One of the 
most striking facts with regard to the activities 
of the highest parts of the brain is the great 
predominance of the inhibitory mechanisms, 
by which the bringing into play of inappro- 
priate movements or sensations is kept in 
check. Now, these mechanisms themselves 
are extraordinarily susceptible of being abo- 
lished by extraneous influence of various 
kinds. One of the most powerful of these 
influences is alcohol. When, therefore, 
greater liveliness is experienced under its 
action, it is because alcohol paralyses the 
inhibiting mechanisms and not because it 
excites activity by a true stimulating action. 
There are, on the other hand, certain sub- 
stances which appear to be genuine stimulants. 
Such are caffeine, a constituent of coffee and 
tea, and perhaps some of the substances 



ALCOHOL 69 

found in meat extracts. Liebig's extract, 
for example, contains very little real food. 
Cocaine, in small doses, has also a stimulant 
effect on the brain, but it must on no account 
be used for this or any other purpose except 
for local anaesthesia, and indeed it is only 
required for this purpose in very rare cases, 
since other drugs, such as novocain, serve 
the purpose equally well. The cocaine habit 
is easily formed and soon makes a total 
wreck of its victim, body and mind. Some 
proprietary articles sold for asthma and other 
purposes sometimes contain cocaine and 
should be warned against, although the pre- 
sent restrictions make it difficult to obtain 
them. 

An experiment made by Pavlov in his in- 
vestigations of the activities of the brain 
shows how readily an act in which inhibition 
plays a part can be upset by a removal of the 
inhibition. It was this : a particular bell was 
rung in the hearing of a dog. Two minutes 
afterwards food was given. The giving of 
the food was accompanied, as usual, by the 
secretion of saliva. The process was re- 



70 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

peated for a number of times and then the 
bell was rung without the subsequent present- 
ation of food. Nevertheless, after the due 
interval of two minutes, saliva appeared. It 
is clear that something must have been going 
on in the brain between the hearing of the 
bell and the secretion of saliva, but that the 
result was prevented by inhibition from show- 
ing itself. That this was the case was proved 
by the fact that the inhibition could be re- 
moved by the application of some indifferent 
stimulus, such as a touch, to the animal's 
body. Such a stimulus is not by itself 
associated with the secretion of saliva. But, 
if it be applied during the interval of two 
minutes spoken of, the saliva appears imme- 
diately, instead of waiting for the lapse of the 
proper time. 

The narcotic effect of alcohol on the brain is 
also shown in other ways. After even small 
quantities, the ability to add figures correctly 
is decreased, although the subject believes 
that he is doing it unusually well. Moreover, 
the effect lasts for as long as twelve hours or 
more. 



ALCOHOL 71 

Another false idea is that alcohol warms. 
This is due to the fact that it dilates the 
blood vessels of the skin ; and, since the feel- 
ing of warmth arises from the skin, if this is 
warm, the mistaken impression is given that 
the body is warm. In point of fact, the 
general temperature is lowered, owing to the 
increased loss from the skin. 

Alcohol also has been shown to lower the 
resistance to infection. 

Finally, visible changes have been found 
in the brain-cells of drunkards, so that there 
is every reason to believe that similar changes 
in a less degree will be produced by even 
comparatively small doses of alcohol. 

Enough has been said to show that there 
is no benefit of any kind to be derived from 
the use of alcohol. Any reason for taking it 
must rest on other grounds, which do not 
concern us here. 

Since this is so, if there is likely to be any 
shortage of food, the first prohibition to be 
made ought surely to be the use of materials 
capable of serving as food from being used 
in distilleries, and, to a less extent, in brew- 



72 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

eries. For the manufacture of alcohol as a 
solvent for explosives, materials unfit for use 
as food, such as bad potatoes, can be used. 
There is also a large store of new whisky in 
the warehouses. 

Further information on the subject of the 
action of alcohol may be obtained from 
Cushny's Pharmacology (pp. 131-155). 

I cannot help expressing regret that any 
apology for the use of alcohol, such as that 
in a recent number of the Church Times 
should have been published. At the present 
time, especially, excuses for the waste in- 
volved in the use of alcohol should not be 
given. The argument that it is a " gift from 
God " would apply even better to opium, 
which is a more natural product than alcohol. 
It is admitted that opium should be confined 
to medicinal use and the same limitation 
should be applied to alcohol. Even for 
medicinal use there are better substitutes. 
I cannot understand how any but an ignorant 
person can deny that there is great waste of 
good food involved even in the manufacture 
of beer, apart from the waste of fuel and 



ALCOHOL 78 

labour. There is always " degradation " of 
energy in the fermentation process. To 
make potable spirit, materials useful for 
food, such as barley and potatoes, must be 
used. A religious paper should be the last 
to advocate what is, to put it in the most 
favourable light, nothing but a selfish 
indulgence. 

The head of a large sanatorium has written 
to me, without a request on my part,, to say 
that he is greatly concerned about the number 
of cases that come to him, even of men of 
much value to the nation, whose efficiency 
is seriously impaired by the use of alcohol. 

From the physiological point of view, 
an advertisement which appeared in The 
Times of December 2ist, 1916, is distinctly 
misleading. Nothing can alter the fact that 
there is a loss of energy in the change from 
carbohydrate to alcohol. If the barley re- 
ferred to were consumed directly by man and 
cattle, the energy value obtained would be 
greater than if all the products resulting from 
its use in making beer were consumed. It 
is doubtless true that very little sugar is 



74 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

added, as such, in the manufacture of beer, 
but the starch of the barley is converted into 
sugar in the process and part of its energy 
value lost by fermentation. So far as " tem- 
perance drinks " contain sugar, they have, of 
course, a food value ; and I fail to see where 
the waste, stated to exist in such drinks, 
occurs. As for the sixty million pounds con- 
tributed by the " trade " to the revenue, surely 
the sum available for national objects would 
be greater still if the consumer saved what 
he spends on alcoholic drinks and invested it 
in War Loan, while he would himself have 
the benefit of the investment. 



CHAPTER VIII 

VEGETARIANISM 

PERHAPS one of the most widely spread 
errors in reference to food is, that there is 
some special virtue in butchers' meat. Some- 
times it appears to be thought that there is 
no protein in vegetable foods. This, as we 
have seen, is not the case. 

Vegetable foods, if properly chosen, can 
supply all that is necessary for a complete 
diet. The protein is not quite so easily di- 
gested, but more of the food can be taken in 
compensation. The proper choice, however, 
may be the most difficult thing, since it is not 
an easy matter, unless some animal product, 
such as milk, is added. 

The work of McCollum, Simmonds and 
Pitz (1916) shows that an adequate diet for 
rats can be made from the three natural 

75 



76 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

vegetable foodstuffs, wheat, wheat-germ and 
rice. But another mixture, although con- 
taining a larger number of constituents, was 
unsatisfactory. Further, it does not follow 
that the mixture suitable for rats would be so 
for other animals or man. The conclusion 
drawn is that a diet of purely vegetable origin 
cannot be safely made up until more is known 
about the properties of each natural foodstuff. 
It is certain, on the other hand, that all the 
components of a successful diet can be found 
in foods of plant origin. 



CHAPTER IX 

EXERCISE 

IT has been recommended that the amount 
of exercise taken for pleasure should be 
lessened. This suggestion is made on the 
ground that " the need felt by many for con- 
stant exercise is in part due to the fact that 
the food eaten is in excess of what, without 
the exercise, would cover the needs of the 
body." 

While this may be so to some extent, uni- 
versal experience of the benefits derived from 
exercise suggests that the consumption of 
slightly more food may be more than compen- 
sated by the increase in general efficiency, 

The actual increase in the energy supplied 
by food necessitated by, say, two or three 
hours' exercise once a week, is a small frac- 
tion of the total consumption. It is to be 

77 



78 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

admitted that there is a possibility that the 
increased appetite resulting from exercise 
in the open-air may lead to a consumption 
of food greater than really necessary. This 
however, when recognized, may be guarded 
against. 

The way in which exercise produces its 
effects is a difficult matter to express an 
opinion upon. It is possible that it may be 
analogous to that of fresh air or a cold bath. 
The stimulation of peripheral nerves in an 
unusual manner wakes up, so to speak, the 
nervous system. The use of muscles, which 
have been more or less idle, serves also to 
keep in adjustment the various mechanisms 
of complex movements ready for every-day 
requirements when needed. 

But, while it is doubtless true that "all 
work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, " it 
is none the less true that "all play and no 
work makes Jack a fool." The latter part of 
the proverb may be commended to the devo- 
tees of the cult of exaggerated athleticism 
that one sometimes meets at the older Schools 
and Universities. 



EXERCISE 79 

Of course, the remarks about muscular ex- 
ercise have no application to those engagedin 
muscular labour as their ordinary occupation. 

The form of recreation required by these is 
rather of a different kind, such as music, read- 
ing, etc. It is not to be supposed, however, 
that change of occupation of any kind is 
without its value to any one, whatever his 
regular work may be. 



CHAPTER X 

THE VALUE OF COOKING 

FROM what has been said above as to the 
destructive effect of heat on certain accessory 
factors of diet, it might be supposed that the 
process of cooking is to be deprecated. We 
have also seen, however, that the digestibility 
of some foods is improved by it, owing to the 
removal of certain substances which prevent 
the action of the digestive enzymes. 

Another beneficial effect of cooking is to 
kill micro-organisms and other parasites. 

But perhaps the greatest use of the art is 
in the preparation of dishes attractive to the 
palate and other senses. As we have seen, 
appetite plays a very important part in diges- 
tion, owing to the secretion of gastric juice, 
which is produced in the stomach, ready for 

the reception of food. 

80 



THE VALUE OF COOKING 81 

The destruction of accessory factors can 
always be compensated for by taking fresh 
fruit or vegetables. 

The book by Kinne and Cooley (1916), 
although primarily intended for use in schools, 
will be found to contain a number of use- 
ful instructions, both in cookery and with 
reference to the preservation of food. 



CHAPTER XI 

CHARACTERISTICS OF CERTAIN ARTICLES 
OF DIET 

Sources of Protein. Meat, poultry and 
eggs are the most costly form of protein, 
even in peace times. Corned beef is cheaper, 
but may be deficient in accessory factors. 
The cheapest source of animal protein is 
separated milk or cheese. The cheapest 
vegetable source is oatmeal. It must again 
be insisted on that protein can be obtained 
equally well from either animal or vegetable 
source. 

Fish, curiously enough, when allowance is 
made for the large percentage of water which 
it contains, does not turn out to be a cheap 
source of protein. The cost of transport to 
inland towns helps to make it more costly. 

As regards food in general , it should be 
82 



CERTAIN ARTICLES OF DIET 83 

pointed out that an extra price is too frequently 
paid for mere appearance, white rice and 
the cheaper grey kind are equally valuable. 
Special named foods made by particular firms 
have rarely any advantage over the ordinary 
market varieties. 

Bread. Notwithstanding the agitation 
some years ago by certain newspapers, it is 
remarkable how little difference there really 
is between the nutritive values of white 
bread and the so-called "Standard " bread. It 
appears that the extra protein obtained by 
using a larger proportion of the wheat grain 
than is done in white flour is comparatively 
indigestible. The difference is greater in some 
kinds of wheat than in others ; but, when 
allowance is made for digestibility, very little 
is gained. The value of the new National 
flour, and bread made from it, consists chiefly 
in the fact that a larger number of loaves can 
be made from the same amount of wheat 
without diminishing the food value. Even as 
much as 90% of the wheat can be made into 
flour, but 8% of this flour is indigestible husk. 
This husk has a value in avoiding constipation, 



84 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

as pointed out above, but no nutritive value. 
The experience of the Food Commission 
in Belgium is in favour of at least 82% milling, 
which makes a yellowish bread. The slightly 
less nutrient value compared with that of 
65-76% milling is more than counterbalanced 
by the lower cost, so that more value can be 
obtained for the same price. It will be re- 
membered that our new Government regu- 
lation fixes the standard of milling at 76%, 
which also makes a rather yellowish bread. 
The colour is due to the inclusion of more of 
that part of the grain from which the future 
wheat plant would grow, if the wheat were 
sown. It is commonly known as the germ, for 
this reason. 

Some objections have been made to the 
inclusion of more germ than in white flour. 
It is said to be more difficult to make light 
bread. And the flour is more inclined to 
be spoilt by keeping. On the other hand 
accessory factors are contained in the germ, 
although this may not be of great importance 
if a variety of other food is taken. 

The Belgian Commission point out that 



CERTAIN ARTICLES OF DIET 85 

11% of maize flour (American corn flour) can 
be mixed with the wheat flour to advantage. 
It increases the quantity and slightly re- 
duces the cost per kilo (Robinson Smith, 
1916, p. 7). 

It will be realized that the statements of 
some advertisers in the daily papers can 
only be described as misleading and mischiev- 
ous nonsense. It is stated, for example, that 
a particular bread is made from the whole of 
the wheat and consists of 100% of perfectly 
digestible material, while the Government by 
fixing the standard at 76% has eliminated 24% 
of the most nourishing part of the " berry " 
\_sic\. This is absurd. 

As we have seen above, bread with the ad- 
dition of some fat, is a complete food in itself. 
Hence the popular " bread - and - butter." 
Speaking for myself, I would almost as readily 
take jam as butter, so that, at a pinch, 
even the fat might be eliminated. I agree 
also with Wood and Hopkins that we do not, 
in England, make sufficient use of the 
numerous different varieties of bread, rolls, 
etc. Bread may also be consumed as toast, 



86 



PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 



hot or cold, or with jam, butter, dripping and 
other things. All of these may assist in the 
proper appreciation of its value. 

Oatmeal. This is not nearly enough made 
use of in the South. Weight for weight, it 
contains more protein and more fat than 
wheat does. It seems difficult for the in- 
experienced to make good porridge. Oat- 
cakes are a valuable form in which oatmeal 
can be taken. 

Rice. As already mentioned, there is no 
advantage in using white " polished" rice. 
In fact, where it is the staple article of diet, 
the polishing removes an essential accessory 
factor ; so that a disease called Beri-beri 
results from its exclusive consumption. The 
Belgian Commission regards rice as the 
cheapest of nourishing food for the feeding 
of a population on a large scale. 

Sugar is too often regarded rather as a 
flavouring or sweetening agent than as one 
of the most valuable energy-giving foods. 
It should be remembered also that, as pur- 
chased, it consists of practically 100 per 



CERTAIN ARTICLES OF DIET 87 

cent, available material. This refers to cane- 
sugar, or, what is the same, beet-sugar. In 
the form of treacle, it is not, of course, quite 
so pure. 

It appears that "golden syrup" consists 
mainly of that kind of sugar called by the 
chemist glucose. A preparation of this sugar, 
not chemically pure, is being sold for domestic 
purposes. There appears to be some un- 
deserved objection to it, apart from its 
flavour, which would prevent its use for 
some purposes. In point of fact, when we 
digest cane-sugar, half of it is converted into 
glucose. Possibly there may be an idea that 
commercial glucose is not sugar at all. 

The sugar present in fruits is glucose, 
while that in the reserve depots of the stem 
and root is cane-sugar, or saccharose, to give 
it the chemical name. Glucose is not so 
sweet as saccharose. 

The chemical compound known as "sac- 
charin " is not a foodstuff, and must not be 
supposed to be a substitute for sugar. 

Fresh Fruit and Vegetables. The chief 



88 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

value of these consists in accessory factors. 
In the East End of London the only fresh 
vegetable food used by the majority of the 
poorer population is fruit, and mainly oranges. 
We see, from this fact, the justification of 
the protests raised against the restriction of 
the import of oranges. 

Milk. This, as remarked already, is one 
of the cheapest sources of protein, actually 
the cheapest source of animal protein. Wood 
and Hopkins point out the waste involved 
in not making more use of separated milk 
for human food, but its bulk involves diffi- 
culties of transport. 

At a time when 1000 calories in the form 
of meat cost one shilling, the same amount 
could be obtained from milk at a cost of 
fourpence three-farthings. 

Condensed milk is not economical. 

Butter and Margarin. While butter is 
the most digestible form of fat, margarin 
may well take its place for most purposes. 

The only objection to the better qualities 
of margarin is their lack of taste. But this 
is preferable to the objectionable taste of the 



CERTAIN ARTICLES OF DIET 



89 



inferior qualities. Whether this is due to 
an attempt to imitate the taste of butter, or 
to something present in the raw materials, 
I do not know. Whatever it is, it would be 
better absent. 



CHAPTER XII 

POSSIBILITIES OF ECONOMY 

IN order to obtain some idea how economy 
might be effected, it will be instructive to 
examine some typical family budgets. I 
take these from the data given in the book 
by Wood and Hopkins. They rest upon 
careful measurements of actual consumption, 
and may be taken as representative of the 
state of things before the War. 

Taking, in the first place, the case of 
fourteen families in York, as investigated 
by Mr. Rowntree. The average income 
of these particular families was less than 
26s. per week. Their average consumption, 
per "man," was 2685 calories, and the pro- 
tein in the diet amounted to 89 grams. All 
that may be remarked about this diet is 

that the energy value is undoubtedly low, 

90 



POSSIBILITIES OF ECONOMY 91 

and that better value might possibly have 
been obtained Pt the same expense if part of 
the protein had been replaced by carbo- 
hydrate. But there is the uncertainty as to 
how large a proportion of the individuals 
might have been growing children, who 
would require more protein than the adults 
do. 

Next, let us take a family with a higher 
income, that of a foreman earning 385-. a 
week. The food consumption per " man " 
amounted to 145 grams of protein and 4800 
calories. The details of the budget will be 
found in Wood and Hopkins, and it would 
seem that some diminution both in protein 
and energy value could be effected without 
detriment, especially in protein. 

Passing on to an income of ^"150 to 
200 a year, the values are 140 grams 
protein, 4250 calories. A further case is 
that of a family keeping three servants. 
Here the values are 143 grams protein, 
4379 calories. On this last case, Wood 
and Hopkins remark that the total food 
might be reduced by one-sixth and part of 



92 



PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 



the meat consumed might be replaced by 
cheaper sources of protein, such as bread or 
oatmeal. They conclude that, while the 
poorer classes cannot make any retrench- 
ment in food expenditure, the wealthier 
classes might save 10 per cent, of the whole 
national expenditure on food. This saving 
would amount to at least sixty million pounds 
per annum, no mean figure. 

It is interesting to compare the amount of 
food obtained for one shilling by different 
classes of the population before the war : 





Labouring 
Class. 


Artisan. 


Wealthy. 


Protein . . . 


179 


140 


92 


Calories . . . 


5500 


4250 


2850 



The conclusion to be drawn from this 
table is that those who have been accustomed 
to consume their protein in the form of meat 
might advantageously replace part of it by 
the cheaper vegetable sources of protein. 
It might not perhaps be advisable to replace 
the whole of it : the 4 oz. standard might be 
divided up somewhat as follows 



POSSIBILITIES OF ECONOMY 93 

i oz. as meat. 

1 oz. as milk. 

2 oz. as oatmeal, bread or beans. 

The actual necessary amount of food is 
less than is usually supposed, if we take the 
food budgets of the wealthier families given 
above as an index of the general practice in 
such cases. 

It must be admitted that it is a matter of 
some difficulty for any household to work 
out with any degree of accuracy what its 
consumption is. It can probably be esti- 
mated most easily by averaging the purchases 
of food during a period of several days, the 
longer the better, and calculating their value 
from Miss McKillop's tables (1916). The 
work will be found by no means devoid of 
interest. But the real " man value " of a 
household is a matter of some uncertainty. 
Certain membersltake lunch away from home, 
and friends or relatives on leave come in at 
various times. With a little trouble, how- 
ever, these factors can be given their due 
arithmetical weight, without much inaccuracy. 



94 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

In a household of few persons, it is naturally 
a simpler process, but the result would prob- 
ably be more subject to the errors incident 
to individual peculiarities. The wealthier 
classes, however, apart from any calculation, 
may take it that they may, without any dis- 
advantage or risk, attempt to reduce their 
expenditure on food by one-sixth in some 
cases by replacing expensive articles by 
cheaper ones, in other cases by diminution 
of quantity. 

It is probable that a diminution in the daily 
ration would, at first, be attended with some 
degree of discomfort, but benefit would soon 
be felt. The main object of the present book 
is to show that it can be done without risk to 
health. Those who wish to economize for 
patriotic reasons will be ready to accept the 
small initial discomfort the more easily when 
they are satisfied that no harm will result. 

It has been noticed that Irish peasants, 
used to the consumption of voluminous 
rations of potatoes, have complained ot 
hunger, and even of starvation, when given 
food of greater value, but of smaller bulk. 



POSSIBILITIES OF ECONOMY 95 

Similarly, Bavarian peasants, used to bread, 
complain if given a diet of meat. 

The change of any habit is apt to cause at 
first a feeling of want, which disappears sub- 
sequently. Some old observations show how 
ancient habits with regard to consumption of 
food are adhered to. I refer to Dutch settlers 
in Java, whose consumption of food was found 
to be the same as in Holland, although the 
conditions of a tropical climate imply that less 
is required. 

One of the most pressing needs at the 
present time is a control of the prices of food 
and a means of ensuring equality of distribu- 
tion, the latter especially in the case of sugar. 
Many dealers in foodstuffs appear to think 
themselves justified in exacting as high a 
price as they can get their customers to pay. 
The experience of the Food Commission in 
Belgium suggests that prices are unnecessarily 
high here in England, particularly in the case 
of bread. 

A reduction in the consumption of food is 
probably only to be obtained, to any notable 
extent, by the voluntary efforts of patriotic 






96 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

citizens. Attempts at control from outside do 
not promise well, if we may judge from the 
results of the recent limitation of meals in 
restaurants. The effect of this has been, so 
far as we can see, to increase the consumption 
of meat and to decrease that of sweets, 
precisely the opposite of what is desirable. 
We must, however, all of us assist the Food 
Controller in his very difficult task by cheer- 
ful acceptance of the conditions which he 
feels it necessary to impose. No doubt, 
suggestions made with the desire to help, and 
not to find occasion for carping criticism, will 
be met with welcome and receive careful 
consideration. 



CHAPTER XIII 

GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

BY way of summary, we may conclude with 
the aphorism already given 

" Take care of the calories and the protein 
will take care of itself." 

But we must also remember that the number 
of calories really necessary is by no means so 
great as it is frequently imagined to be. 

The accessory factors, again, like the pro- 
tein, do not, as a rule, require special considera- 
tion. At the same time, it is well to ensure 
their presence by taking fresh fruit or salad. 
These are practically the only uncooked food 
taken in this country, with the exception of 
milk. Oysters can scarcely be regarded as 

a regular article of diet. 
H 97 



98 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

With respect to the substitution of a part 
of the animal protein, usually taken, by its 
equivalent in the vegetable form, it is of some 
importance to refer to what has been pointed 
out in connection with the use of farm land. 
It appears that more food per acre can be 
obtained by growing wheat than by using the 
land as pasture for sheep or cattle. There 
are, doubtless, economical reasons why the 
farmer hesitates to make the change, but the 
fact must be kept in mind. 

As to the necessity for economy in the use 
of wheat and other cereals, the Report of 
the International Institute of Agriculture in 
Rome, with regard to the crops of 1916, is to 
be considered with care. The wheat crop of 
1916 turns out to be only 93*4% of the average ; 
but there are remainders from 1915, which was 
an exceptionally good year. There are also 
to be added some crops from the Southern 
Hemisphere reaped in December and Janu- 
ary. On the other side, the Report points 
out that there is likely to be an increase in 
consumption owing to improvements in eco- 
nomic conditions, movements of population, 






GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 99 

arrival of armies, increase of rations to mo- 
bilized units, etc., and the conclusion is drawn 
that " considerable drafts upon the remainders 
mentioned must be made in order to bridge 
over the interval " up to the harvest of 1917. 
" It is therefore both urgent and indispen- 
sable to effect serious economies in consump- 
tion. Otherwise available supplies at the end 
of the current season would be much reduced 
and might even be insufficient if next harvest 
should not prove to be a plentiful one." 

It may be well to refer, finally, to the fact 
that no attempt has been made in this manual 
to deal with special food required in disorders 
of nutrition. That is the province of medical 
science, which deals with the diseased organ- 
ism, while physiology deals with the activities 
of the normal healthy organism, plant as well 
as animal. Physiology is thus the foundation 
not only of medicine, but of hygiene and also 
of agriculture. I call attention to this be- 
cause it is sometimes thought that a know- 
ledge of physiology is only necessary for the 
student of medicine. Since it deals with the 
normal activities of our bodies as they are 



H 2 



100 PHYSIOLOGY OF FOOD 

used every day, it should be obvious that 
some knowledge of it is of vital importance 
to all of us and ought to be possessed by 
all of us. One of the problems of physiology 
is that of food, and an elementary account of 
this problem has been attempted in the 
preceding pages. 



REFERENCES 

BAYLISS, W. M. (1916). Principles of Gen- 
eral Physiology. Longmans, 2 is. 

BENEDICT, F. G., and E. P. CATHCART 

(1913). Muscular Work. Publication 

of the Nutrition Laboratory, Carnegie 

Institution of Washington. No. 187. 

CARLSON, A. J . ( 1 9 1 6). The Control of Hunger 
in Health and Disease. Univ. of Chicago 
Press, and Cambridge Univ. Press. qs. 

CATHCART, E. P. (1912). The Physiology of 
Protein Metabolism. Longmans. 

Commission for Relief in Belgium. First 
Annual Report (1916). 3 London Wall 
Buildings, E. C. 

COOK, CAPTAIN JAMES (1776). The Method 
taken for Preserving the Health of the 
Crew of His Majesty s Ship, the "Reso- 
lution" during her late Voyage Round 

IOI 



102 REFERENCES 

the World. Phil. Trans. Royal Society. 
66, 402-406. 

CUSHNY, A. R. (1910). Textbook of Pharm- 
acology and Therapeutics. Philadelphia: 
Lea and Febiger. th Edn. 

FISHER, IRVING (1905). A New Method for 
Indicating Food Values. Amer. Journ. 
Physiol., /5, 4I7-43 2 - 

HAMILL, J. M. and S. B. SCHRYVER (1916). 
Nitrogenous Metabolism in Normal In- 
dividuals. Proc. Physiol. Soc. in Journ. 
Physiol. 34, pp. x-xii. 

HINDHEDE, M. (1913). Studien ueber Ei- 
weissminimum. Skand. Arch. Physiol., 
jo, 97-182. 

KINNE, HELEN and ANNA M. CooLEv(i6i6). 
food and Health. Home- Making Series. 
New York : The Macmillan Co. 35. 

LANGWORTHY, C. F. (1908). Pood and Diet 
in the United States. Year- Book of the 
United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, 1907. Washington, 1908. 

LUSK, GRAHAM (1909). The Elements of the 
Science of Nutrition. Saunders, London 
and Philadelphia. \2s. 2nd Edn. 



REFERENCES 108 

MCCOLLUM, E. V., and MARGUERITE DAVIS 
(1915). The Essential Factors in the 
Diet during Growth. Journ. Biol. 
Chem. <?j, 231-246. 

McCoLLUM, E. V., N. SIMMONDS, and W. 
PITZ (1916). The Vegetarian Diet in 
the Light of our Present Knowledge of 
Nutrition. Amer. Journ. Physiol., 41, 
333-3^0. 

(1916). The Distribution in Plants 

of the Fat Soluble A, the Dietary Es- 
sential of Butter Fat. Amer. Journ. 
Physiol. 41, 361-375. 

McKiLLOP, MARGARET (1916). Food Values, 
What they are and How to Calculate 
Them. Routledge. is. 

PAVLOV, I. P. (1910). The Work of the 
Digestive Glands. Trans, by W. H. 
THOMPSON. Griffin. 2nd Edn. 

ROWNTREE, B. S. Poverty, a Study of Town 
Life. Macmillan. 2s. 6d. 

SMITH, ROBINSON (1916). Food Values and 
the Rationing of a Country. Commis- 
sion for Relief in Belgium. 3 London 
Wall Buildings, E. C. 



104 REFERENCES 

STARLING, E. H.(i9i6). Principles of Human 
Physiology. Churchill, 2is. 2nd Edn. 

THOMPSON, W. H. (1916). The Food Value 
of Great Britain's Food Supply. Eco- 
nomic Proc. of Royal Dublin Society. 
2, 168-220. 

WOOD, T. B. (1916). The Story of a Loaf 
of Bread. Cambridge Univ. Press. 
\s 6d. 

WOOD, T. B., and F. G. HOPKINS (1916). 
Food Economy in War Time. Cam- 
bridge Univ. Press. 6d. 



INDEX 



Accessory factors, 56, 97 ; in 

plants, 60 

Affinity, chemical, 13 
Alcohol, 67 ; effect of, on 

digestion, 64 
Amino-acids, 16 
Appearance of foods, price 

paid for, 83 
Appetite, 62, 63, 80 
Arrowroot, 65 
Athleticism, 78 

Belgian Food Commission, 

39 

Beri-beri, 58 
Bitters, 64 
Bread, 43, 83 

, Composition of, 43 

, " National," 83 

, "Standard," 83 

Butchers' meat, 75, 82 
Butter, 42, 43, 88 

Calculation of food consump- 
tion, 93 

Calorie defined, 21 
Carbohydrate, value of, 50, 



H' 1 

born 



Carbohydrates, 
nature of, 29 
Carbon compounds, 12 

dioxide, 14 

, peculiarities of, 13 

Carbonic acid, 14 



chemical 



Change of habit, 94, 95 
Cheese, 42 
Chemical affinity, 13 
Cold bath, 24 

weather, 33 

Condensed milk, 88 
Conservation of energy, 9 
Constituents of the body, n 
Control of meals, 96 j of 

prices, 95 
Convertibility of energy, 18, 

19 

Cooking, 54, 80 
Custard, 65 

Diabetes, 52 
Digestibility, 61 
Digestion, 17, 53 
Disorders of nutrition, 99 

Economic aspect of food 

problem, 3 
Economy, possibilities of, 

90. 94 

Economy in use of cereals, 
98 

Efficiency of animal ma- 
chine, 33 

Eggs, 42 

, raw and cooked, 64 

Energetics, first law of, 9 
, second law of, 20 

Energy and work, 8 

conservation of, 9 



105 



106 



INDEX 



Energv, convertibility of, 18, 

19 

defined, 8 

of the sun's rays, 1 5 

, transfer of, 19 

Enzymes, 60 
Exercise, 24, 77 

Farm land, nse of, 98 
Fat-soluble A factor, 59 
Fats, chemical nature of, 28 

, value of, 52 

Fermentation, 73 
Fish, 42, 82 
" Flesh formers," 23 
Food budgets, 90 

stuffs, classes of, 30 

supply of England, 37 

Fresh air, 23 

Fruit, value of, 60, 87 

Gastric juice, 62 
Gelatin, 65 
Germ of wheat, 84 
Glucose, 87 
" Golden syrup," 87 
Gout, 52 
Green plant, 15 
Growth, 6 

and maintenance dif- 
ferent, 1 8 

Heat energy, 20, 21 
" Heat formers," 23 
Hunger, 63 
Hygiene, 99 

Indigestible matter, function 
of, 30 

Life as transfer of energy, 19 

Maintenance 6 

Maize, added to bread, 85 



" Man value " of population, 
36 

Margarin, 88 

Meat extracts, 64 

Mental work, energy con- 
sumption of, 34 

Milk, 42, 82, 88 

Minimum of protein, 44 

Muscle, food of, 45 

Mutton, 42 

" National " bread, 83 
Nitrogen compounds, 7, 15, 

16, 18 
Nuts, protein of, 61 

Oatmeal, 42, 43, 82, 86 
Oranges in East London, 88 
Oxygen as food, 23 

Peas, 42 

Petrol motor, 10, 12, 18, 26 
Physiology, scope of, 99 
Possibilities of economy, 90, 

94 

Potatoes, 43, 47 
Poverty, 48 
Products of protein meta- 

boles, 5 1 

Protein food, use of, 25/26, 
49 ; minimum, 44 

, chemical nature of, 16 

of nuts, 61 

, sources of, 82 

Recreation, 79 
Regulation of prices, 39 
Rice, 86 

Saccharin, 87 

Salts, 12 

Scurvy, 58 

Soup, 64 

Sources of protein, 82 



INDEX 



107 



"Specific dynamic energy," 

49 

" Standard " bread, 83 
Standard diet," 32 
Steak, 42 

Stomach, digestion in, 54 
Sugar as food, 42, 43, 55, 86 

Temperature, effect of alcohol 

on, 71 

Thermodynamics, 20 
Triangles of food values, 44 

Urea, 51 
Uric acid, 51 



Use of farm land, 98; of 
food, 6 

Value of cooking, 54, 80 ; of 

particular food stuffs, 42 
Vegetarian diet, 75 
" Vitamines," 56 

War rations, 37 
Wasting disease, 65 
Water, 12 

soluble B factor, 59 

Wear and tear, 6, 18 
Wheat crop of 1916, 98 
Work, 7 



PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY 
RICHARD CLAY & SONS, LIMITED. 
BRUNSWICK ST., STAMFORD ST., S.H., 

AND BUNGAY. SUFFOLK. 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Librar^ Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




