r 






Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodpoisoningOOjorduoft 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
SCIENCE SERIES 



Editorial Committee 

ELIAKIM HASTINGS MOORE, Chairman 

JOHN MERLE COULTER 

ROBERT ANDREWS MILLIKAN 



The University of Chicago Science Series, 
established by the Trustees of the University, 
owes its origin to a feeling that there should be 
a medium of publication occupying a position 
between the technical journals with their 
short articles and the elaborate treatises which 
attempt to cover several or all aspects of a 
wide field. The volumes of the series \yill 
differ from the discussions generally appearing 
in technical journals in that they will present 
the complete results of an experiment or series 
of investigations which previously have appeared 
only in scattered articles, if published at all. 
On the other hand, they will differ from detailed 
treatises by confining themselves to specific 
problems of current interest, and in presenting 
the subject in as summary a manner and with 
as little technical detail as is consistent with 
sound method. 



FOOD POISONING 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 



Brents 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR COMPANY 

NEW YORK 

THE CUNNINGHAM, CURTISS & WELCH COMPANY 

LOS ANG8LES 



THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS 

LONDON AND EDINBURGH 

THE MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA 

TOKTO, OSAKA, KYOTO, FUKUOKA, SENDAl 

THE MISSION BOOK COMPANY 



MM. 

FOOD POISONING 



vA^' "' 



By 



EDWIN OAKES JORDAN , 

Chairman of the Department of Hygiene and Bar' •; , j^y 
The University of Chicago y ' 



fmm 



,1 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 



Copyright 1917 By 
The University of Chicago 



All Rights Reserved 



Published May 191 7 



Composed and Printed By 

The University of Chicago Press 

Chicago. Illinois, U.S.A. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. Introduction i 

The Extent of Food Poisoning 

Various Kinds of Food Poisoning 

The Articles of Food Most Commonly Connected 

with Food Poisoning 

11. Sensitization to Protein Foods 9 

III. Poisonous Plants and Animals 13 

Poisonous Plants 

Poisonous Animals 

IV. Mineral or Organic Poisons Added to Food . . 26 
Arsenic 

Antimony- 
Lead 
Tin 
Copper 

Various Coloring Substances 
Food Preservatives 
Food Substitutes 

V. Food-borne Pathogenic Bacteria 44 

Typhoid Food Infection 
Asiatic Cholera 
. Tuberculosis 
Various Milk-borne Infections 
Possible Infection with B. proteus 

VI. Food-borne Pathogenic Bacteria {Continued) . 58 
Paratyphoid Infection 

Typical Paratyphoid Outbreaks 
General Characters of Paratyphoid Infection 
Toxin Production 
Sources of Infection 
Means of Prevention 
vii 



viii CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

VII. Animal Parasites 79 

Trichiniasis 
Teniasis 
Uncinariasis 
Other Parasites 

VIII. Poisonous Products Formed in Food by Bacteria 

AND Other Micro-organisms 85 

Ergotism 
Botulism 

Symptoms 

Anatomical Lesions 

Bacteriology 

Epidemiology 

Prevention and Treatment 
Other Bacterial Poisons 
Spoiled and Decomposed Food 

IX. Poisoning of Obscure or Unknown Nature . . 100 
Milksickness or Trembles 
Deficiency Diseases 

Beriberi 

Pellagra 

Lathyrism 

Favism 

Scurvy 

Rachitis 
The Foods Most Commonly Poisonous 

Index 109 



CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTION 

How frequently food poisoning occurs is not def- 
initely known. Everybody is aware that certain ar- 
ticles of food are now and again held responsible for 
more or less severe "attacks of indigestion" or other 
physiological disturbances that have followed their 
consumption, but in many cases the evidence for 
assuming a causal connection is of the slightest. That 
convenient refuge from etiological uncertainty, "ptomain 
poisoning," is a diagnosis that unquestionably has been 
made to cover a great variety of diverse conditions, 
from appendicitis and the pain caused by gallstones 
to the simple abdominal distention resulting from reck- 
less gorging. 

No doubt can be entertained, however, that intes- 
tinal and other disorders due to particular articles of 
food occur much more frequently than they are recorded. 
There are few persons who have not experienced gastro- 
intestinal attacks of moderate severity which could 
be reasonably attributed to something eaten shortly 
before. It is often possible to specify with a fair degree 
of certainty the offending food. The great majority 
of such attacks are of a mild character, are quickly 
recovered from, and are never heard of beyond the 
immediate family circle. Only when the attack is 
more serious than the average or when a large number 
of persons are affected simultaneously does knowledge 
of the occurrence become more widely spread. A 



2 FOOD POISONING 

small proportion of food-poisoning cases receives 
notice in the public press and a still smaller propor- 
tion is reported in the medical journals. Very few 
indeed are ever completely investigated as to their 
origin. 

Although most attacks of food poisoning are usually 
of a slight and apparently temporary nature, it does 
not follow that they are to be considered negligible or 
of trivial importance from the standpoint of public 
health. The human organism is always more or less 
weakened by such attacks, many of them, as we shall 
see, genuine infections; and, as is known to be the case 
with many infectious diseases, some permanent injurious 
impression may be left on the body of the affected 
individual. Under certain conditions it is possible that 
degenerative changes are initiated or accelerated in the 
kidneys or blood vessels by the acute poisoning which 
is manifested for a short time in even the milder cases. 
In yet greater degree these changes may follow those 
insidious forms of food poisoning due to the frequent 
ingestion of small quantities of mineral or organic 
poisons, which in each dose may cause little or no measur- 
able physiological change, but whose cumulative effect 
may be vicious. In view of the grave situation evi- 
denced by the increase in the degenerative diseases 
affecting early middle life in the United States,' the 
extent, causes, and means of prevention of food poison- 
ing seem pressing subjects for investigation. 

^ Tables A and B show that the "expectation of life" for adults of 
forty years and over is shorter in New York City now than it was thirty 
years ago (Table A) , and that this increase in the death-rate in the higher- 
age groups is manifested in recent years in a wide area in this country 



INTRODUCTION 3 

THE EXTENT OF FOOD POISONING 

Since cases of food poisoning, ^^ptomain poisoning," 
and the like are not required by law to be reported, 
public health authorities in general possess no informa- 
tion respecting their occurrence. Very indirect and 
imperfect indications of the prevalence of certain kinds 
of food poisoning are afforded by casual press reports. 
Such as they are, .these accounts are the only available 
material. Tables I and II summarize data I have gath- 
ered through a press-clipping bureau and other sources 
during the period October, 19 13, to October, 191 5. 

(Table B). This increased mortality is due chiefly to diseases of the 
heart, arteries, and kidneys, and to cancer. 

TABLE A* 

Approximate Life Table, Trienna 1879-81 and iqoq-ii, Based on 
New York City Statistics 



Ages 


Expectation of Life, 
1879-81 


Expectation of Life, 
1909-11 


Gain (+) or 

Loss (— ) in Years 

of Expectancy 




41-3 
46.3 
43-8 
39.7 
35.8 
32.6 

lit 

23.0 
21. 1 
18.3 
iS-4 
130 
10.5 
8.9 
7.3 
6.4 
5-5 


51-9 
51-1 

46.9 
42. s 
38.3 
34.3 

30. s 
26.9 

234 

20.0 

16.8 
13.9 

II. 3 
9.1 
7.2 
5-5 
4.3 
2.2 


+10.6 
+ 4.8 
+ 3.1 
+ 2.8 

t "-5 
+ 1.7 
+ 0.9 
+ 0.2 
— o.s 


S ... 




15 






30 


35 




45 ... . 




- 1. 5 

- i.s 

- 1.7 

- 1.4 


cs 


60.::::: 


65 


70 


te . 


sl:::::::::::::: 


85 


-16.6 


Balance 






+10.0 



Monthly Bull., Dept. of Health, City of New York, III (1913), 113. 
(Footnote continued on p. 4) 



4 FOOD POISONING 

They serve to show at least the universality and com- 
plexity of the problem. 

The 375 group and family outbreaks together 
involved 5,238 persons. While it is not probable that 
all the instances reported as due to food poisoning can 
properly be so considered, there is no doubt that the 
number recorded in the tables falls far short of the 
actual occurrences. In the past few years the writer 
has investigated several large food-poisoning outbreaks 
which have never been reported in the press nor received 
public notice in any way. There is reason to think that 
the majority of cases escape notice. Probably several 
thousand outbreaks of food poisoning in families and 
larger groups, affecting at least 15,000-20,000 persons, 
occur in the United States in the course of a year. 

The assignment of causes indicated in Table I is 
of limited value. The tendency to incriminate canned 
food is here manifest. Proper investigation of the origin 
of an outbreak is so rarely carried out that the articles 



TABLE B* 

Comparison of Mortality or Males and Females, by Age Groups. Death-Rates 
PER 1,000 Population (Registration States as Constituted in 1900) 



Ages 


Males 


Percentage 

Increase or 

Decrease 


Females 


Percentage 

Increase or 

Decrease 


IQOO 


1911 


1900 


1911 


Under 5 

5-9 

10-14 

1S-19 

20-24 

25-34 

35-44 

45-54 

55-64 

65-74 

75 and over 
All ages. . . . 


54 
4 

4 

7 

8 

10 

11 

17 


2 
7 
9 
9 


i 

8 

t 

I 
6 


39 
3 
2 
3 
5 
6 

10 
16 

61 

147 

15 


8 

9 
6 

4 
8 


— 26.27 
-27.66 

— 17.24 
-24.49 
-24.29 
-19.28 

— 3- 70 
+ 1.90 
+ 6.92 
+ 3.36 
+ .89 
-10.23 


45 
4 
3 

t 

8 

9 

14 

25 

53 

139 

16 


8 
6 
I 
8 
7 
2 
8 
2 
8 
8 
5 
5 


33-3 
3-1 
2.1 
3-3 
4-7 
6.0 
8.3 

26^8 

55.1 

139-2 

14.0 


-27.29 
—32.61 
-32.26 
-31.25 
-29.85 
-26.83 
-15.31 
- 9-15 
+ 0.78 
+ 2.42 
+ 0.22 
-15.15 



* Dublin, Amer. Jour. Public Health, III (1913), 1262. 



INTRODUCTION 5 

of food ordinarily accused are selected rather as the 
result of popular prejudice and tradition than of any 
careful inquiry. 

TABLE I 

Food Poisoning in the United States, October, 19 13, 
TO October, 191 5 



Assigned cause 


Group 
and Family 
Outbreaks 


Individual 
Cases 


Total 


Meat 


40 
29 

27 
31 
17 
31 
18 

14 
12 

8 
II 

12 

9 

12 
29 


35 
35 
34 
22 

31 

9 

18 

13 

7 
II 

7 
4 

5 

I 

55 


75 


Canned fish . 


64 


Canned vegetables 


61 


Ice cream 


53 


Fish, oysters 


48 


Cheese 


40 


Sausage and canned meat 


36 


Milk 


27 


Mushrooms 


19 


Fruit . . 


19 


Vegetables 


18 


Fowl 


16 


Salad 


14 


Contact of food or drink with metal 
Miscellaneous 


13 

84 






No cause assigned 


300 
357 


287 
88 


587 
445 








657 


375 


1,032 



TABLE II 

Seasonal Distribution of Food Poisoning Cases, 1914-15 
(Group, Family, and Individual) 



January . 
February 
March... 
April 



90 
66 
75 
79 



May. . . 
June . . . 
July. . . 
August 



63 
108 

99 
96 



September . 
October . . . 
November . 
December. 



76 
96 
96 



There is no very striking seasonal incidence apparent 
in the figures here gathered (Table II). The warmer 



6 FOOD POISONING 

months seem to have a slight preponderance of cases, 
but general conclusions from such data are hardly 
warranted. 

VARIOUS KINDS OF FOOD POISONING 

Cases of poisoning by articles of food may be dis- 
tinguished as: (i) those caused by some injurious 
constituent in the food itself, and (2) those caused by a 
peculiar condition of the individual consuming the 
food, by virtue of which essentially wholesome food 
substances are capable of producing physiological dis- 
turbance in certain individuals. The .. latter group 
includes persons, apparently normal in other respects, 
who are more or less injuriously affected by some partic- 
ular article of diet, such as eggs or milk, which is eaten 
with impunity by all normal individuals. This is the 
so-called food sensitization or food allergy. 

Food poisoning, as more commonly understood, is 
due to the composition, contents, or contamination of 
the food itself. It is not within the scope of this book 
to consider any of those cases in which definite poisonous 
substances are added to food with criminal intent. 
The term food poisoning is here taken to include the 
occasional cases of poisoning from organic poisons 
present in normal animal or plant tissues, the more or 
less injurious consequences following the consumption 
of food into which formed mineral or organic poisons 
have been introduced by accident or with intent to 
improve appearances or keeping quality, the cases of 
infection due to the swallowing of bacteria and other 
parasites which infest or contaminate certain foods, 
and the poisoning due to deleterious substances pro- 



INTRODUCTION 7 

duced in food by the growth of bacteria, molds, and 
similar organisms. As already pointed out, little is 
known about the relative frequency of occurrence of 
these different causes or the extent to which they are 
separately and collectively operative. 

THE ARTICLES OF FOOD MOST COMMONLY CONNECTED 
WITH FOOD POISONING 

In addition to the definitely poisonous plants or 
animals, certain everyday articles of food have been 
frequently associated with the more serious outbreaks 
of food poisoning. Meat in particular has been impli- 
cated so often that the term meat poisoning is used 
about as commonly as the term food poisoning in general 
discussions of this subject. Certain it is that the great 
majority of the best-studied and most severe outbreaks 
of food poisoning have been attributed on good grounds 
to the use of meat or meat products. Other animal 
foods, and especially milk and its derivatives, cheese 
and ice-cream, have likewise been held responsible for 
extensive and notable outbreaks. 

Perhaps the most significant feature of food poisoning 
attacks is the frequency with which they have been 
traced to the use of raw or imperfectly cooked food. 
, The probable interpretation of this fact will be discussed 
in the later chapters. Especially have the use of un- 
cooked milk, either by itself or mixed with other food 
substances, and the eating of raw sausage brought in 
their train symptoms of poisoning in a disproportionately 
large number of cases. 

Canned goods of various sorts have likewise been 
repeatedly accused of causing injurious effects, but the 



8 FOOD POISONING 

evidence adduced is not always convincing. The 
actual degree of danger from this source is far from 
being determined. The National Canners Association 
publishes in the annual report of the secretary a brief list 
of ^'libels on the industry" or instances in which canned 
foods of various sorts were regarded as the cause of 
illness. The 191 6 report contains fifty-one cases of 
this character, none of which was considered by the 
investigator of the Association to be based on sound 
evidence. A still more searching investigation of all 
such cases would seem to be desirable, not with a view 
to incriminating or exculpating any particular product, 
but simply for the purpose of ascertaining and placing 
on record all the facts. 



CHAPTER II 
SENSITIZATION TO PROTEIN FOODS 

The first introduction under the skin of a guinea-pig 
of a minute quantity of egg-white or other apparently 
harmless protein substance is itself without visible 
injurious effect, but if this is followed by a second 
injection of the same substance after an interval of 
about ten days, the animal will die in a few minutes 
with symptoms of violent poisoning. Whatever be 
the physiological explanation of the remarkable change 
that thus results from the incorporation of foreign 
protein into the body, there can be no doubt that the 
phenomenon known as protein sensitization or anaphy- 
laxis is relatively common.^ Sensitization to proteins 
came to Hght in the first instance through the study of 
therapeutic sera, and has been found to have unexpect- 
edly wide bearings. It is now known that not only 
the rash and other symptoms which sometimes follow 
the administration of horse serum containing diphtheria 
antitoxin, but the reaction to tuberculin and similar 
accompaniments of bacterial infection, are probably 
to be explained on the principle of anaphylactic change. 
The sensitiveness of certain individuals to the pollen 
of particular plants (hay fever) is also regarded as a 

^ General agreement resp>ecting the true physiological and chemical 
nature of anaphylactic phenomena has not yet been reached. For 
a discussion of the theories of anaphylaxis, see in Hans Zinsser, Infection 
and Resistance (New York, 19 14), chaps, xv-xviii; also Doerr, 
"Allergie und Anaphylaxis," in Kolle and Wassermann, Handbuch, 2d 
edition, 19 13, II, 947. 

9 



lO FOOD POISONING 

typical instance of anaphylaxis, accompanied as it 
is by asthma and other characteristic manifestations 
of the anaphylactic condition. 

Among the reactions usually classed as anaphylactic 
are the occasional cases of sensitivity to particular food 
substances. It is a familiar fact that certain foods 
that can be eaten with impunity by most persons 
prove more or less acutely poisonous for others. Straw- 
berries and some other fruits and some kinds of shell- 
fish are among the articles of food more commonly 
implicated. Unpleasant reactions to the use of eggs 
and of cow's milk are also noted. The severity of the 
attacks may vary from a slight rash to violent gastro- 
intestinal, circulatory, and nervous disturbances. 

Coues' has described a rather typical case in a child 
twenty-one months old and apparently healthy except 
for some eczema. When the child was slightly over 
a year old egg-white was given to it, and nausea and 
vomiting immediately followed. About eight months 
later another feeding with egg-white was followed by 
sneezing and all the symptoms of an acute coryza. 
Extensive urticaria covering most of the body also 
appeared, and the eyelids became edematous. The 
temperature remained normal and there was no marked 
prostration. The symptoms of such attacks vary 
considerably in different individuals, but usually include 
pronounced urticaria along with nausea, vomiting, and 
diarrhea. The rapidity with which the' symptoms 
appear after eating is highly characteristic. Schloss^ 
has reported a case of an eight-year-old boy who evinced 

^ Boston Med. and Smg. Jour., CLXVII (19 12), 216. 
2 Amer. Jour. Obstet. (New York), LXV (1912), 731. 



SENSITIZATION TO PROTEIN FOODS ii 

marked sensitiveness to eggs, almonds, and oatmeal. 
Experiments in this instance showed that a reaction 
was produced only by the proteins of these several 
foods, and that extracts and preparations free from 
protein were entirely inert. It was further found that 
by injection of the patient's blood serum guinea-pigs 
could be passively sensitized against the substances in 
question, thus showing the condition to be one of real 
anaphylaxis. 

Idiosyncrasy to cow's milk which is observed some- 
times in infants is an anaphylactic phenomenon.' The 
substitution of goat's milk for cow's milk has been 
followed by favorable results in such cases. 

In very troublesome cases of protein idiosyncrasy a 
method of treatment based on animal experimentation 
has been advocated. This consists in the production 
of a condition of ''anti-anaphylaxis" by systematic 
feeding of minute doses of the specific protein substance 
concerned.^ S. R. Miller^ describes the case of a child 
in whom a constitutional reaction followed the adminis- 
tration of one teaspoonful of a mixture composed of one 
pint of water plus one drop of egg-white, while a like 
amount of albumen diluted with one quart of water 
was tolerated perfectly. ''Commencing with the dilu- 
tion which failed to produce a reaction, the child was 
given gradually increasing amounts of solutions of 
increasing strength. The dosage was always one 
teaspoonful given three times during the day; the 
result has been that, in a period of about three months, 

* F. B. Talbot, Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., CLXXV (1916), 409. 

' See, for example, Schloss, lac. cit. 

^ Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., XXV (1914), 78. 



12 FOOD POISONING 

the child has been desensitized to such an extent that 
one dram of pure egg-white is now taken with impunity." 

Many other instances of anaphylaxis to egg albu- 
men are on record/ In some of these cases the amount 
of the specific protein that suffices to produce the 
reaction is exceedingly small. One physician writes 
of a patient who ''was unable to take the smallest 
amount of egg in any form. If a spoon was used to 
beat eggs and then to stir his coffee, he became very 
much nauseated and vomited violently."'' 

The dependence of many cases of ''asthma" upon 
particular foods is an established fact. Various skin 
rashes and eruptions are likewise associated with sensiti- 
zation to certain foods.^ McBride and Schorer^ consider 
that each particular kind of food (as tomatoes or cereals) 
produces a constant and characteristic set of symptoms. 
Possibly certain definitely characterized skin diseases 
are due to this form of food poisoning. Blackfan^ 
found that of forty-three patients without eczema only 
one showed any evidence of susceptibility to protein by 
cutaneous and intracutaneous tests, while of twenty- 
seven patients with eczema twenty-two gave evidence 
of susceptibility to proteins. 

^ See, for example, K. Koessler, ///. Med. Jour., XXIII (1913), 66; 
Bronfenbrenner, Andrews, and Scott, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXIV 
(1915), 1306; F. B. Talbot, Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., CLXXI 
(1914), 708. 

'^ Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXV (1915), 1837. 

3 Strickler and Goldberg, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXVI (1916), 249. 

^ Jour. Cutaneous Dis., XXXIV (19 16), 70. 

s Amer. Jour. Dis. of Children, XI (1916), 441. 



CHAPTER III 
POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 

Some normal plant and animal tissues contain 
substances poisonous to man and are occasionally eaten 
by mistake for wholesome foods. 

POISONOUS PLANTS 

Poisonous plants have sometimes figured con- 
spicuously in human affairs. Every reader of ancient 
history knows how Socrates ''drank the hemlock," 
and how crafty imperial murderers were likely to 
substitute poisonous mushrooms for edible ones in the 
dishes prepared for guests who were out of favor. In 
our own times the eating of poisonous plants is generally 
an accident, and poisoning from this cause occurs 
chiefly among the young and the ignorant. 

According to Chesnut^ there are 16,673 leaf -bearing 
plants included in Heller's Catalogue of North American 
Plants, and of these nearly five hundred, in one way 
or another, have been alleged to be poisonous. Some 
of these are relatively rare or for other reasons are not 
likely to be eaten by man or beast; others contain a 
poison only in some particular part, or are poisonous 
only at certain seasons of the year; in some the poison 
is not dangerous when taken by the mouth, but only 
when brought in contact with the skin or injected 
beneath the skin or into the circulation. There are 
great differences in individual susceptibility to some 

^ Science y XV (1902), 1016. 

13 



14 FOOD POISONING 

of these plant poisons. One familiar plant, the so- 
called poison-ivy, is not harmful for many people even 
when handled recklessly; it can be eaten with impunity 
by most domestic animals. 

The actual number of poisonous plants likely to be 
inadvertently eaten by human beings is not large. 
Chesnut' has enumerated about thirty important 
poisonous plants occurring in the United States, and 
some of these are not known to be poisonous except 
for domestic animals.^ Many of the cases of reported 
poisoning in man belong to the class of exceedingly rare 
accidents and are without much significance in the 
present discussion. Such are the use of the leaves of the 
American false hellebore {Veratrum viride) in mistake 
for those of the marsh-marigold-^, the use of the fruit 
pulp of the Kentucky coffee tree {Gymnocladus dioica) 
in mistake for that of the honey-locust'*, the accidental 
employment of daffodil bulbs for food, and the confusion 
by children of the young shoots of the broad-leaf laurel 
(Kalmia latifolia) with the wintergreen.^ One of the 

^ U.S. Dept. of Agric, Div. of Botany, Bull. 20, 1898. 

2 Among the plants that seem to be most commonly implicated in 
the poisoning of stock are the larkspur {Delphinium. U.S. Dept. of 
Agric, Bull. 365, September 8, 1916), the water hemlock (Cicuta macu- 
lata) and others of the same genus, the lupines {U.S. Dept. of Agric, 
Bull. 405, 1916), some of the laurels {Kalmia), and the Deg,th Camas or 
Zygadenus {U.S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 125, 19 15). The famous loco- 
weed of the western United States {U.S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. 112, 1909) 
is less certainly to be held responsible for all the ills ascribed to it (H. T. 
Marshall, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., XXV [19 14], 234). 

3 Chesnut, U.S. Dept. of Agric, Div. of Botany, Bull. 20, 1898, p. 17. 

4 Ibid., p. 28. 

5 Ibid., p. 45. The seeds of the castor-oil bean, which contain a 
very powerful poison (ricin) allied to the bacterial toxins, have been 
known to cause the death of children who ate the seeds given them to 
play with. 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 



15 







Fig. I. — Coniiim maculatum. The fresh juice of Conium macnlatum 
was used in the preparation of the famous hemlock potion which was 
femployed by the Greeks in putting their criminals to death. (From 
Applied and Economic Botany, by courtesy of Professor Kraemer [after 
Holm].) 



1 6 FOOD POISONING 

most serious instances of poisoning of this sort is that 
from the use of the spindle-shaped roots of the deadly 
water hemlock (Cicuta maculata) allied to the more 
famous but no more deadly poison hemlock. These 
underground portions of the plant are sometimes 
exposed to view by washing out or freezing, and 
are mistaken by children for horseradish, artichokes, 
parsnips, and other edible roots. Poisoning with water 
hemlock undoubtedly occurs more frequently than 
shown by any record. Eight cases and two deaths 
from this cause are known to have occurred in one year 
in the state of New Jersey alone. 

An instance of food poisoning to be included under 
this head is the outbreak in Hamburg and some thirty 
other German cities in 191 1 due to the use of a poisonous 
vegetable fat in preparing a commercial butter sub- 
stitute.^ In the attempt to cheapen as far as possible 
the preparation of margarin various plant oils have 
been added by the manufacturers. In the Hamburg 
outbreak, in which over two hundred cases of illness 
occurred, poisoning was apparently due to substitution 
of so-called maratti-oil, derived from a tropical plant 
{Hydrocarpiis) . This fat is said to be identical with oil 
of cardamom, and its toxic character in the amounts 
used in the margarin was proved by animal experiment. 
Increasing economic pressure for cheap foods may lead 
to the recurrence of such accidents unless proper pre- 
cautions are used in testing out new fats and other 
untried substances intended for use in the preparation 
of food substances.^ 

^ Mayer, Deutsche Viertelj.f. djfentl. Ges., XLV (1913), 12. 
2 Cf. an instance of palmolin poisoning, Centralhl. f. Bakt., I, Ref., 
LXII (1914), 210. 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 



17 



Investigators from the New York City Health 
Department have found that certain cases of alleged 




Fig. 2. — Cicuta maculala (water hemlock): A, upper part of stem 
with leaves and compound umbels; B, base of stem and thick tuberous 
roots; C, cross-section of stem; D, flower; E, fruit; F, fruit in longitu- 
dinal section; G, cross-section of a mericarp. (From Applied and 
Economic Botany, by courtesy of Professor Kraemer [after Holm].) 



i8 FOOD POISONING . 

^'ptomain poisoning" were really due to "sour-grass 
soup."^ This soup is prepared from the leaves of a 
species of sorrel rich in oxalic acid. In one restaurant 
it was found that the soup contained as much as ten 
grains of oxalic acid per pint! 

By far the best-known example of that form of 
poisoning which results from confounding poisonous 
with edible foods is that due to poisonous mushrooms.^ 
There is reason to believe that mushroom (or "toad- 
stool") intoxication in the United States has occurred 
with greater frequency of late years, partly on account 
of the generally increasing use of mushrooms as food 
and the consequently greater liability to mistake, and 
partly on account of the growth of immigration from 
the mushroom-eating communities of Southern Europe. 
Many instances have come to light in which immigrants 
have mistaken poisonous varieties in this country for 
edible ones with which they were familiar at home. 
In the vicinity of New York City there were twenty- two 
deaths from mushroom poisoning in one ten-day period 
(September, 191 1) following heavy rains. The "fly 
Amanita^ ^^ {Amanita muscaria) in this country has been 
apparently often mistaken for the European variety 
of "royal Amanita^'' {A. caesaria)^ Such a mistake 

^ Weekly Bull, N.Y. Dept. of Health, September 16, 1916. 

2 Seventy-three species of mushrooms known or suspected to be 
poisonous are enumerated in a bulletin of the United States Department 
of Agriculture, Patterson and Charles ("Mushrooms and Other Common 
Fungi," Bull. 775, 1915). This bulletin contains descriptions and 
excellent illustrations of many edible and of the commoner poisonous 
species. 

3 Used in some places as a fly poison. 

4 Ford, Science, XXX (1909), 97. 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 




19 






1^ 



I Q 



fe ^ 



20 FOOD POISONING 

seems to have been the cause of death of the Count 
de Vecchi in Washington, D.C., in 1897. 

The Count, an attache of the Italian legation, a cultivated 
gentleman of nearly sixty years of age, considered something 
of an expert upon mycology, purchased, near one of the markets 
in Washington, a quantity of fungi recognized by him as an edible 
mushroom. The plants were collected in Virginia about seven 
miles from the city of Washington. The following Sunday 
morning the count and his physician, a warm personal friend, 
breakfasted together upon these mushrooms, commenting upon 
their agreeable and even delicious flavor. Breakfast was con- 
cluded at half after eight and within fifteen minutes the count felt 
symptoms of serious illness. So rapid was the onset that by 
nine o'clock he was found prostrate on his bed, oppressed by the 
sense of impending doom. He rapidly developed blindness, 
trismus, difficulty in swallowing, and shortly lost consciousness. 
Terrific convulsions then supervened, so violent in character 
as to break the bed upon which he was placed. Despite rigorous 
treatment and the administration of morphine and atropine, the 
count never recovered consciousness and died on the day following 
the accident. The count's physician on returning to his office 
was also attacked, dizziness and ocular symptoms warning him 
of the nature of the trouble. Energetic treatment with apo- 
morphine and atropine was at once instituted by his colleagues 
and for a period of five hours he lay in a state of coma with occa- 
sional periods of lucidity. The grave symptoms were ameliorated 
and recovery set in somewhere near seven o'clock in the evening. 
His convalescence was uneventful, his restoration to health com- 
plete, and he is, I believe, still living. In this instance the count 
probably identified the fungi as caesaria or aurantiaca. From 
the symptoms and termination the species eaten must have been 
muscaria. 

A. muscaria contains an alkaloidal substance which 
has a characteristic effect upon the nerve centers and to 
which the name muscarin and the provisional chemical 
formula C5H15NO3 has been given. The drug atropin 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 21 

is a more or less perfect physiological antidote for 
muscarin and has been administered with success in 
cases of muscarin poisoning. It is said that the peasants 
in the Caucasus are in the habit of preparing from the 
fly Amanita a beverage which they use for producing 
orgies of intoxication. Deaths are stated to occur fre- 
quently from excessive use of this beverage.^ 

The deadly Amanita or death-cup {A. phalloides) 
is probably responsible for the majority of cases of 
mushroom poisoning. Ford estimates that from twelve 
to fifteen deaths occur annually in this country from 
this species alone. This fungus is usually eaten through 
sheer ignorance by persons who have gathered and 
eaten whatever they chanced to find in the woods, A 
few of these poisonous mushrooms mixed with edible 
varieties may be sufficient to cause the death of a family. 
Ford thus describes the symptoms of poisoning with 
A. phalloides: 

Following the consumption of the fungi there is a period of 
six to fifteen hours during which no symptoms of poisoning are 
shown by the victims. This corresponds to the period of incu- 
bation of other intoxications or infections. The first sign of 
trouble is sudden pain of the greatest intensity localized in the 
abdomen, accompanied by vomiting, thirst, and choleraic diar- 
rhoea with mucous and bloody stools. The latter symptom is 
by no means constant. The pain continues in paroxysms often 
so severe as to cause the peculiar Hippocratic facies, la face 
vulteuse of the French, and though sometimes ameliorated in 
character, it usually recurs with greater severity. The patients 
rapidly lose strength and flesh, their complexion assuming a 

^ Another species of mushroom occurring in this country and 
commonly regarded as edible (Paneolus papilionaceus) has on occasion 
shown marked intoxicating properties (A. E. Verrill, Science, XL 
(19 14), 408). 



22 FOOD POISONING 

peculiar yellow tone. After three to four days in children and 
six to eight in adults the victims sink into a profound coma from 
which they cannot be roused and death soon ends the fearful 
and useless tragedy. Convulsions rarely if ever occur and when 
present indicate, I am inclined to believe, a mixed intoxication, 
specimens of Amanita muscaria being eaten with the phalloides. 
The majority of individuals poisoned by the "deadly Amanita" 
die, the mortality varying from 60 to 100 per cent in various 
accidents, but recovery is not impossible when small amounts 
of the fungus are eaten, especially if the stomach be very promptly 
emptied, either naturally or artificially. 

A number of other closely related species of Amanita 
(e.g., A. verna, the "destroying angel," probably a small 
form of A. phalloides) have a poisonous action similar 
to that of A . phalloides. All are different from muscarin. 

The character of the poison was first carefully investi- 
gated by Kobert, who showed that the Amanita extract 
has the power of laking or dissolving out the color- 
ing matter from red blood corpuscles. This hemolytic 
action is so powerful that it is exerted upon the red 
cells of ox blood even in a dilution of i : 125,000. Ford^ 
has since shown that in addition to the hemolytic 
substance another substance much more toxic is present 
in this species of Amanita and he concludes that the 
poisonous effect of the fungus is primarily due to the 
latter {^'Amanita toxin"). The juice of the cooked 
Amanita is devoid of hemolytic power, but is poisonous 
for animals in small doses, a fact that agrees with 
the observation that these mushrooms, after cooking, 
remain intensely poisonous for man. Extensive fatty 
degeneration in liver, kidney, and heart muscle is 
produced by the true Amanita toxin. In the Baltimore 

' Juur. Injccl. Dls., Ill (1906), 191. 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 



23 




Fig. 4. — Death-cup; destroying angel {Amanita phalloides Fries); 
reduced; natural size: cap, 3I inches; stem, 7^ inches. (After 
Marshall, The Mushroom Book, by courtesy of Doubleday, Page & 
Company.) 



24 FOOD POISONING 

cases studied by Clark, Marshall, and Rowntree^ the 
kidney rather than the liver was the seat of the most 
interesting functional changes. These authors con- 
clude that the nervous and mental symptoms, instead 
of being due to some peculiar ''neurotoxin," are probably 
uremic in character. No successful method of treatment 
is known. An antibody for the hemolysin has been 
produced, but an antitoxin for the other poisonous 
substance seems to be formed in very small amount. 
Attempts to immunize small animals with Amanita 
toxin succeed only to a limited degree.^ 

POISONOUS ANIMALS 

While the muscles or internal organs of many animals 
are not palatable on account of unpleasant flavor or 
toughness, there do not seem to be many instances in 
which normal animal tissues are poisonous when eaten. 
As pointed out elsewhere (chapter vi) , the majority of out- 
breaks of meat and fish poisoning must be attributed to 
the presence of pathogenic bacteria or to poisons formed 
after the death of the animal. This has been found 
especially true of many of the outbreaks of poisoning 
ascribed to oysters and other shellfish; in most, if not 
all, cases the inculpated mollusks have been derived 
from water polluted with human wastes and are either 
infected or partially decomposed. 

In some animals, however, notably certain fish, the 
living and healthy organs are definitely poisonous. 
The family of Tetrodontidae (puffers, balloon-fish, 
globe-fish) comprises a number of poisonous species, 

^ Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXIV (1915), 1230. 
^W. W. Ford, "Plant Poisons and Their Antibodies," Centralhl. f. 
Bakt., I Abt., Ref., LVIII (1913), 129 and 193, with full bibliography. 



POISONOUS PLANTS AND ANIMALS 25 

including the famous Japanese Fugu, which has many 
hundred deaths scored against it and has been often 
used to effect suicide. Poisonous varieties of fish seem 
more abundant in tropical waters than in temperate, 
but this is possibly because of the more general and 
indiscriminate use of fish as food in such localities as 
the Japanese and South Sea Islands. It is known that 
some cool-water fish are poisonous. The flesh of the 
Greenland shark possesses poisonous qualities for dogs 
and produces a kind of intoxication in these animals.^ 

Much uncertainty exists respecting the conditions 
under which the various forms of fish poisoning occur. 
One type is believed to be associated with the spawning 
season, and to be caused by a poison present in the 
reproductive tissues. The roe of the European barbel 
is said to cause frequent poisoning, not usually of a 
serious sort. The flesh or roe of the sturgeon, pike, and 
other fish is also stated to be poisonous during the 
spawning season. Some fish are said to be poisonous 
only when they have fed on certain marine plants.^ 

There is little definite knowledge about the poisons 
concerned. They are certainly not uniform in nature. 
The Fugu poison produces cholera-like symptoms, con- 
vulsions, and paralysis. It is not destroyed by boiling. 
The effect of the Greenland shark flesh on dogs is 
described as being '4ike alcohol." It is said that dogs 
fed with gradually increasing amounts of the poisonous 
shark's flesh become to some degree immune. Different 
symptoms are described in other fish poisoning cases. ^ 

^ A. H. Clark, Science, XLI (1915), 795. 

2 See W. M. Kerr, U.S. Nav., Monthly Bull., VI (1912), 401. 

3 Ibid. 



CHAPTER IV 
MINERAL OR ORGANIC POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 

Well-known mineral or organic poisons — "chemical 
poisons" — sometimes find their way into food, being 
either introduced accidentally in the process of manu- 
facture or preparation, or being added deliberately with 
intent to improve the appearance or keeping qualities 
of the food. 

ARSENIC 

So powerful a poison as arsenic has been occasionally 
introduced into food by stupidity or carelessness. 
Arsenic has been found by English authorities to be 
generally present in food materials dried or roasted 
with gases arising from the combustion of coal, and in 
materials treated with sulphuric acid during the process 
of preparation. In both cases the source is the same: 
the iron pyrites, practically always arsenical, con- 
tained in the coal or used in making the sulphuric 
acid. 

A celebrated epidemic of "peripheral neuritis" in 
the English Midlands in 1900 was traced to the presence 
of dangerous quantities of arsenic in beer. About 
six thousand persons were affected in this outbreak and 
there were some seventy deaths. The beer coming 
from the suspected breweries had all been manufactured 
with the use of brewing sugars obtained from a single 
source, and these sugars were found to have been 
impregnated with arsenic by the sulphuric acid used 

26 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 27 

in their preparation, some specimens of the acid con- 
taining as much as 2 . 6 per cent of arsenic.^ 

The use of glucose, not only in beer, but as an admix- 
ture or adulterant in jams, syrups, candies, and the 
like, is open to serious objection unless the glucose is 
known to have been prepared with sulphuric acid freed 
from arsenical impurity. In fact, the use of any food 
material prepared by the aid of sulphuric acid is per- 
missible only in case arsenic-free acid is employed.'' 

ANTIMONY 

The cheaper grades of enameled cooking utensils 
in use in this country contain antimony, and this is 
dissolved out in noteworthy amounts in cooking various 
foods.^ The rubber nipples used for infants' milk 
bottles also sometimes contain antimony .^ Although 
the poisonous quaHties of antimony are well known, 
there is little information about the toxic effect of 
repeated very minute doses. Recognized instances of 
chronic antimony poisoning are very rare. Further in- 
vestigation is needed. 

LEAD 

The well-known poisonousness of lead and its 
compounds prevents, as a rule, the deliberate addition 
of lead salts to food substances, although it is true 

» E. S. Reynolds, Lancet, I (1901), 166. 

2 The sulphuric acid used in making glucose in the United States 
is authoritatively declared to be absolutely free from arsenic (report of 
hearing before Illinois State Food Standard Commission, June 21-23, 
1916; see Amer. Food Jour.., July, 1916, p. 315). 

3 E. W. Miller, Jour. Home Economics, VIII (1916), 361. 

4 Phelps and Stevenson, Hyg. Lab., U.S. Public Health Service, 
Bull. g6, 1914, p. 55. 



28 FOOD POISONING 

that lead chromate is sometimes used for imparting a 
yellow color to candy and decorating sugars.^ Foods 
that are wrapped in foil, however, such as chocolate 
and soft cheese, contain traces of lead, as do the contents 
of preserve jars with metallic caps and the ''soft drinks" 
vended in bottles with patent metal stoppers. Occa- 
sional ingestion of minute quantities of lead is probably 
a matter of little physiological importance, but since 
lead is a cumulative poison, frequent taking into the 
body of even very small amounts entails danger. Severe 
lead poisoning has been known to result from the 
habitual use of acid beverages contained in bottles with 
lead stoppers. Investigations made to determine the 
possible danger of poisoning from lead taken up from 
glazed and earthenware cooking utensils indicate that 
injury from this source is unlikely. The enameled ware 
in common use in this country is lead-free. 

Objection on the ground of possible contamination 
has been raised to the use of solder for sealing food 
cans. Such objections have less weight than formerly 
owing to changes in the construction of the container, 
so that any contact of solder with the food is now 
minimized and to a large extent done away with 
altogether. 

In consequence of the fact that many natural waters 
attack lead, the use of lead service pipes for wells, 
cisterns, and public water supplies has given rise to 
numerous outbreaks of lead poisoning. It is now 
generally recognized that water intended for drinking 
purposes should not be drawn through lead pipes. 

^ Harrington and Richardson, Manual of Practical Hygiene, 5th 
ed., p. 224. 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 29 

A special liability to take lead into the stomach 
exists in persons working at the painters' trade and 
other occupations involving contact with lead and its 
salts. It has been shown that the eating of food handled 
with paint-smeared hands brings about the ingestion 
of considerable quantities of lead and, when long 
continued, results in lead poisoning. The risk of con- 
taminating food with lead in this way can be greatly 
lessened by thorough cleansing of the hands with soap 
and hot water before eating.^ 

TIN 

Special interest has attached to the possibility of 
tin poisoning on account of the widespread use of canned 
foods.^ It is established chemically that tin is attacked, 
not only by acid fruits and berries, but by some vege- 
tables having only a slightly acid reaction. More tin 
is found in the drained solids than in the liquor, and 
the metal is largely in an insoluble form.^ It has been 
the general opinion based on experiments by Lehmann^ 
and others that the amounts of tin ordinarily present 
in canned foods ''are undeserving of serious notice," 
and this view has found expression in the leading 
textbooks on hygiene.^ Certainly there has not been 
any noticeable amount of tin poisoning observed coin- 
cident with the enormous increase in the use of canned 

^ See Alice Hamilton, "Hygiene of the Painters' Trade," U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bull. 120, 19 13. 

2 In 1909 the value of foods canned in the United States amounted 
to about $300,000,000 (U.S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. ig6, 1915). 

3 w, D. Bigelow, Amcr. Food Jour., XI (1916), 461. 

^Arch.f. Hyg., XLV (1902), 88; ibid., LXTII (1907), 67. 

s See, e.g., Harrington and Richardson, Practical Hygiene, 5th 
ed.,lp. 274. 



30 FOOD POISONING 

foods. An instance of poisoning by canned asparagus 
observed by Friedmann/ however, is attributed by him 
to the tin content, and this view is rendered probable by 
the negative result of his bacteriological and serological 
examinations. Canned asparagus apparently contains 
an unusually large amount of soluble tin compounds.^ 
There seems some ground for the assumption that 
certain individuals are especially susceptible to small 
quantities of tin and that the relative infrequency of 
such cases as that cited by Friedmann can be best 
explained in this way. Lacquered or "enamel-lined" 
cans are being used to an increasing extent for fruits 
and vegetables that are especially likely to attack tin.^ 
Intentional addition of tin salts to food substances 
does not appear to be common, although protochloride 
of tin is said sometimes to be added to molasses for 
the purpose of reducing the color. The chlorides are 
regarded as more definitely poisonous than other com- 
pounds of tin, and for this and other reasons the practice 
is undesirable. Sanitarians insist that chemical sub- 
stances likely to be irritating to the human tissues in 
assimilation or elimination should not be employed in 
food. Each new irritant, even in small quantity, may 
add to the burden of organs already weakened by age 
or previous harsh treatment. 

COPPER 

Danger is popularly supposed to attend the cooking 
and especially the long standing of certain foods in 
copper vessels on account of the verdigris or copper 

^Ztschr.f. Hyg., LXXV-LXXVI (1913-14), 55- 

2 Bigelow, loc. cit. 

3 A. W. Bitting, U.S. Dept. of Agric, Bull. ig6, 1915. 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 31 

acetate that is sometimes formed, but Professor Long, 
of the Referee Board of Consulting Scientific Experts,^ 
points out that this substance is far less toxic than it 
was once imagined to be, and he considers it likely that 
the cases of illness attributed to "verdigris poisoning" 
reported in the older literature should have been 
explained in some other way. 

The use of copper sulphate for imparting a green 
color to certain vegetables, such as peas, beans, and 
asparagus, is a relatively modern practice, having been 
started in France about 1850. Since the natural green 
of vegetables is in part destroyed or altered by heat, 
restoration of the color has appealed to the color sense of 
some consumers. It must be admitted that this aesthetic 
gratification is fraught with some degree of danger to 
health. The experiments by Long show that copper is 
absorbed and retained in certain tissues, and that even 
small amounts ingested at brief intervals may have a 
deleterious action. He concludes that the use of copper 
salts for coloring foods must be considered as highly 
objectionable. The United States Government now 
prohibits the importation of foods colored with copper 
and also the interstate trade in these substances. 

VARIOUS COLORING SUBSTANCES 

Copper sulphate is but one of a host of chemical 
substances applied to various foods for the purpose 
of altering the color which the foods would otherwise 
possess. In some cases perhaps it may be the general 
opinion that by special treatment the attractiveness 
of a food product is increased, as when dark-colored 

^ U.S. Dept. of Agric, Report p/, 1913. 



32 FOOD POISONING 

flour is bleached white with nitrogen peroxide, but in 
many instances the modification of color is based on 
preposterously artificial standards. The use of poison- 
ous aniline dyes for staining candies all the colors of the 
rainbow must be defended, if at all, on aesthetic rather 
than on sanitary grounds. Some coloring matters in 
common use, such as the annatto, universally employed in 
coloring butter, are believed to be without harmful effect, 
but others are to be viewed with suspicion, and still others, 
like copper sulphate, are unquestionably dangerous. 
The whole practice of food coloration at its best involves 
waste and may entail serious danger to health. Broadly 
speaking, all modification of the natural color of food- 
stuffs is based on an idle convention and should be 
prohibited in the interest of the public welfare. 
Bleached flour, stained butter, dyed jelly and ice-cream 
are no whit more desirable as foods than the natural 
untreated substances; in fact, they are essentially less 
desirable. If the whole process of food coloration were 
known to the public, artificially colored foods would 
not be especially appetizing. Economically the practice 
is singularly futile. The artificial whitening of flour 
with the highly poisonous nitrogen peroxide seems 
hardly worth the extra tax of fifty cents to a dollar a 
barrel. Such bleaching with a poisonous gas certainly 
does not improve the nutritive or digestive qualities of 
flour; it may be insidiously injurious. The solution of 
the problem of food coloration seems to lie in a policy 
of educational enlightenment which shall make natural 
foods appear more desirable than those sold under false 
colors. Custom, however, buttressed by skilful adver- 
tising, ofTers a difficult barrier to reform in this field. 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 2>3 

FOOD PRESERVATIVES 

It is not only legitimate, but in every way most 
desirable, to keep food over from a season of super- 
abundance to a season of scarcity. From time imme- 
morial food has been preserved by drying, smoking, or 
salting, and, in modern times, by refrigeration and by 
heat (canning). These latter methods have come to 
play a large part in the food habits of civilized com- 
munities. Since food spoils because of microbic action, 
all methods of preservation are based upon the destruc- 
tion of the microbes or the restraint of their growth by 
various physical and chemical agencies. The use of 
certain chemical preservatives such as strong sugar and 
salt solutions, saltpeter brines, and acid pickles has long 
been known and countenanced. In recent times the 
employment of chemical preservatives has acquired a 
new aspect through the increasing tendency of manu- 
facturers to add to food products antiseptic chemicals 
in wide variety and of dubious physiological effect. 

It is not so easy and simple as it might appear to 
declare that no substance that is poisonous shall be 
added to food. The scientific conception of a poison 
is one involving the amount as well as the kind of sub- 
stance. Common salt itself is poisonous in large doses, 
but, as everyone knows, small amounts are not only not 
injurious, but absolutely necessary to health. Well- 
known and very powerful protoplasmic poisons such as 
strychnine and quinine are frequently administered in 
minute doses for medicinal purposes, without causing 
serious results. 

How complicated the question of using food pre- 
servatives really is appears in the case of smoked meats 



34 FOOD POISONING 

and fish, which owe their keeping qualities to the creosote 
and other substances with which they are impregnated 
by the smoke. Although these substances are much 
more highly poisonous than chemical preservatives like 
benzoic acid, over which much concern has been ex- 
pressed, but little if any objection has been made to 
the use of smoked foods. 

The use of benzoic acid (benzoate of soda) as a 
food preservative illustrates several phases of the con- 
troversy. Observations by Wiley in 1908 upon so-called 
^'poison squads" were thought by him to indicate 
that benzoate of soda administered with food led to 
*'a very serious disturbance of the metaboHc functions, 
attended with injury to digestion and health." On 
the other hand, the experiments of the Referee Board 
of Scientific Experts (1909), conducted with at least 
equal care and thoroughness, were considered to warrant 
the conclusions that: 

(i) Sodium benzoate in small doses (under five-tenths of a 
gram per day) mixed with the food is without deleterious or 
poisonous action and is not injurious to health. (2) Sodium 
benzoate in large doses (up to four grams per day) mixed with the 
food has not been found to exert any deleterious effect on the 
general health, nor to act as a poison in the general acceptance 
of the term. In some directions there were slight modifications 
in certain physiological processes, the exact significance of which 
modification is not known. (3) The admixture of sodium ben- 
zoate with food in small or large doses has not been found to 
injuriously affect or impair the quality or nutritive value of 
such food. 

Still later experiments under the auspices of the 
German government (19 13) showed that in the case of 
dogs and rabbits relatively large doses of benzoic acid 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 35 

(corresponding to sixty to one hundred grams per day 
for a man weighing one hundred and fifty pounds) were 
necessary in order to produce demonstrable effects of 
any kind. This finding may be considered to confirm 
in a general way the finding of the Referee Board that 
four grams per day is harmless. 

Probably the evidence respecting the effect of 
benzoic acids and the benzoates when used as food 
preservatives constitutes as favorable a case as can be 
made out at the present time for the employment of any 
chemical substance. Benzoic acid is present in note- 
worthy amounts in many fruits and berries, especially 
cranberries, and its presence in these natural foods has 
never been connected with any injurious action. In 
point of fact, substances present in many ordinary food- 
stuffs are converted within the human body first into 
benzoic acid and then into hippuric acid. Folin's 
masterly summing up is worth quoting: 

We know that the human organism is prepared to take care 
of and render harmless those small quantities of benzoic acid 
and benzoic acid compounds which occur in food products or 
which are formed within the body; we know how this is accom- 
plished and are reasonably sure as to the particular organ which 
does it. We also know that the mechanism by means of which 
the poisonous benzoic acid is converted into the harmless hippuric 
acid is an extremely efficient one, and that it is capable of taking 
care of relatively enormous quantities of benzoic acid. In this 
case, as in a great many others, the normal animal organism is 
abundantly capable of performing the function which it must 
regularly perform in order to survive. From this point of view 
it can be argued, and it has been argued with considerable force, 
that the human organism is abundantly capable of rendering 
harmless reasonable amounts of benzoic acid or benzoate which 
are added for purposes of preservation to certain articles of our 



36 FOOD POISONING 

food. In my opinion this point of view is going to prevail, and 
the strife will resolve itself into a controversy over how much 
benzoic acid shall be permitted to go into our daily food. 

But we ought to be exceedingly cautious about accepting 
any definite figure, certainly any large figure, as representing the 
permissible amount of added benzoic acid in our food. The 
very fact that we are in possession of an efficient process for 
converting poisonous benzoic acid into harmless hippuric acid 
indicates that there is a necessity for doing so. It suggests that 
even the small quantities of benzoic acid which we get with 
unadulterated food, or produce within ourselves, might be delete- 
rious to health except for the saving hippuric acid forming process. 
And because that ''factor of safety" is a large one with respect 
to the normal benzoic acid content of our food it does not follow 
that we can encroach on it with perfect impunity. What the 
effect of a general, regular encroachment on it would be cannot 
be determined by a few relatively short feeding experiments. 
It is known that while certain chemicals may be taken in sub- 
stantial quantities for a month or a year without producing 
demonstrably injurious effects, nevertheless the continued use 
of the same substances, even in smaller quantities, will eventually 
undermine the health. Perhaps the final solution of the benzoic 
acid problem could be best obtained directly from the people 
at large. If they were to consume benzoic acid as knowingly 
as they consume, for example, sodic carbonate in soda biscuits, 
or caffeine and theobromine in coffee and tea, it would not require 
more than a decade or two before we should have a well-defined 
and well-founded public opinion on the subject, at least in the 
medical profession.^ 

With respect to other familiar and more or less 
poisonous substances used to preserve foods, defense 
of their harmlessness is far more difficult. Formalde- 
hyde, salicylic acid, sulphurous acid, and sulphite are 
compounds definitely poisonous in relatively small 

^ Folin, Prescrva lives and Oilier Chemicals in Foods (Harvard 
University Press, IQ14), p. 32. 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 37 

amounts, their injurious action in minute successive 
doses in animal experiments is quite marked, and their 
use in human food products practically without justifi- 
cation. Boric acid and borax are perhaps on a slightly 
different footing, but are never present in natural 
foods, and there is no good evidence that their long- 
continued ingestion in small doses is without injurious , 
effect. It must not be forgotten that all such substances 
owe their preservative or antiseptic power to the poison- 
ous effect they have upon bacterial protoplasm. It 
is fair to assume that, in general, bacterial protoplasm 
is no more easily injured than human protoplasm, and 
this raises at once the propriety of bringing into repeated 
contact with human tissues substances likely to produce 
injury even if such injury is sHght and recovery from it 
is ordinarily easy. In every case the burden of proof 
should be properly placed on those who advocate the 
addition of bacterial-restraining substances to food 
intended for human consumption. It is for them to 
show that substances powerful enough to hold in check 
the development of bacteria are yet unable to interfere 
seriously with the life-processes of the cells of the human 
body. 

When this view of the situation is taken, not only 
the chemical substances mentioned previously fall under 
some suspicion, but also certain household preservatives 
long sanctioned by custom. Spices such as cinnamon, 
oil of cloves, and the like are, so far as we know, as 
likely to have an injurious physiological effect when 
taken in small recurring quantities as are some of the 
*' chemical" preservatives whose use is debarred by 
law. The chemicals deposited by wood smoke in meat 



38 FOOD POISONING 

are of a particularly objectionable nature, and their 
continuous ingestion may quite conceivably lead to 
serious injury. 

One fact persistently comes to the front in any 
comprehensive study of the food-preservative question, 
namely, the need of further experiment and observation. 
We do not at present know what effect is produced 
in human beings of different ages and varying degrees 
of strength by the long-continued consumption of food 
preserved with particular chemicals. 

There is, I think, only one way to get at the facts with regard 
to the various chemicals which have been used for the preserva- 
tion of foods, and that is by trying them and keeping track of 
the results. To try them properly, on a sufhciently extensive 
scale and for a sufficiently long time, is, however, more of a task 
than can be undertaken by private investigators; for it is only 
by their continuous use for many years under competent super- 
vision and control that we can hope to attain adequate informa- 
tion for final conclusions. Work of this sort should be done 
and could very well be done at large government institutions, 
as, for example, among certain classes of prison inmates. I do 
not know how many life prisoners or long-term prisoners may be 
available, but there must be an abundance of them. They 
would make better subjects than students on whom to try out 
a substance like boric acid. This, not because they are prisoners 
whose fate or health is of comparatively little consequence, but 
because they represent a body of persons whose mode of life is 
essentially uniform and whose health record could easily be kept 
for a long period of years. I am well aware that this suggestion 
will impress many persons as heartless and brutal, but such an 
experiment would be a mild and humane one when compared 
with the unrecorded boric acid experiments which have been 
made by manufacturers on all kinds and conditions of people. 
Prisoners are unfortunate in not being able to render any useful 
service to society. Probably not a few would be willing to 
co-operate in prolonged feeding experiments, similar to the short 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 39 

ones conducted by Dr. Wiley and by the Referee Board. Accept- 
able reward in the way of well-prepared food of sufficient variety 
would attract volunteers. If additional inducement were neces- 
sary, shortened term of service would probably appeal to many. 
And in the face of the fact that every civilized country is prepared 
to sacrifice thousands of its most virile citizens for the honor of its 
flag (and its foreign trade), the sentiment against endangering 
the health of a handful of men in the interest of all mankind is 
not particularly intelligent.^ 

Until such information is forthcoming we do well 
to err on the side of caution. The desirability of adopt- 
ing this attitude is especially borne in upon us by the 
facts already instanced (pp. 2-4) concerning the increased 
death-rates in the higher-age groups in this country. 
For aught we now know to the contrary, the relatively 
high death-rates from degenerative changes in the 
kidneys, blood vessels, and other organs may be in part 
caused by the use of irritating chemical substances in 
food. Although no one chemical by itself and in the 
quantities in which it is commonly present in food can 
perhaps be reasonably accused of producing serious and 
permanent injury, yet when to its effect is superadded 
the effect of still other poisonous ingredients in spiced, 
smoked, and preserved foods of all kinds the total burden 
laid upon the excretory and other organs may be dis- 
tinctly too great. There can be no escape from the 
conclusion that the more extensive and widespread the 
use of preservatives in food the greater the likelihood 
of injurious consequences to the public health. 

The use of spoiled or decomposed food falls under 
the same head. It cannot be assumed that the irritating 
substances produced in food by certain kinds of decom- 

^ Folin, op. cit., p. 42. 



40 FOOD POISONING 

position can be continually consumed with impunity. 
We do not even know whether these decomposition 
products may not be more fundamentally injurious 
than preservatives that might be added to prevent 
decomposition ! 

So far as our present knowledge indicates, therefore, 
effort should be directed (i) to the purveying of food 
as far as possible in a fresh condition; (2) to the avoid- 
ance of chemical preservatives of all kinds except those 
unequivocally demonstrated to be harmless. The meth-- 
ods of preserving food by drying, by refrigeration, and 
by heating and sealing are justified by experience as 
well as on theoretical grounds, and the same state- 
ment can be made regarding the use of salt and sugar 
solutions. But the use of sulphites in sausage and 
chopped meat, the addition of formaldehyde to milk, 
and of boric acid or sodium fluoride to butter are prac- 
tices altogether objectionable from the standpoint of 
public health. 

The remedy is obvious and has been frequently 
suggested — namely, laws prohibiting the addition of 
any chemical to food except in certain definitely speci- 
fied cases. The presumption then would be — ^as in 
truth it is — ^that such chemicals are more or less dan- 
gerous, and proof of innocuousness must be brought 
forward before any one substance can be listed as an 
exception to the general rule. Such laws would include 
not only the use of chemicals or preservatives, but the 
employment of substances to "improve the appearance" 
of foodstuffs. As already pointed out, the childish 
practice of artificially coloring foods involves waste 
and sometimes danger. It rests on no deep-seated 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 41 

human need; food that is natural and untampered 
with may be made the fashion just as easily as the color 
and cut of clothing are altered by the fashion-monger. 
The incorporation of any chemical substance into food 
for preservative or cosmetic purposes could wisely be 
subject to a general prohibition, and the necessary list 
of exceptions (substances such as sugar and salt) should 
be passed on by a national board of experts or by some 
authoritative organization like the American Public 
Health Association, 

FOOD SUBSTITUTES 

On grounds of economy or convenience familiar and 
natural articles of food are sometimes replaced or supple- 
mented by artificial chemical products, or by substances 
whose food value is not so definitely established. I 
need refer only briefly to those notorious instances of 
adulteration in which chicory is added to coffee, or 
ground olive stones to pepper, or glucose to candy. On 
hygienic grounds alone some such practices are not 
open to criticism, however fraudulent they may be 
from the standpoint of public morals. It might be 
argued with some plausibility that chicory is not so 
likely to harm the human organism as caffeine and that 
sprinklings of ground cocoanut shell are more whole- 
some than pepper. But there is another group of cases 
in which the artificial substitute is strictly objectionable. 
The use of the coal-tar product saccharin for sweetening 
purposes is an example. This substance, whose sweeten- 
ing power is five hundred times as great as that of cane 
sugar, has no nutritive value in the quantities in which 
it would be consumed, and in not very large quantities 



42 FOOD POISONING 

(over o . 3 gram per day) is likely to induce disturbance 
of digestion. As a substitute for sugar in ordinary 
foodstuffs it is undesirable.^ 

The use of cheap chemically prepared flavors such as 
"fruit ethers" in ''soft drinks," fruit syrups, and the 
like in place of the more expensive natural fruit extracts 
affords another well-known instance of substitution. 
Probably more important hygienically is the production 
of "foam" in "soda water" by saponin, a substance 
known to be injurious for red blood corpuscles. 

Among the many other familiar examples of food 
substitution, sophistication, and adulteration there are 
some of demonstrable hygienic disadvantage and others 
whose chief demerit lies in simple deception. Of prac- 
tically all it may be said that they are indefensible from 
the standpoint of public poHcy since they are based on 
the intent to make foodstuffs appear other than what 
they really are. 

It is the opinion of some who have closely followed 
the course of food adulteration that, while the amount 
of general sophistication — ^legally permissible and other- 
wise — ^has greatly increased in recent years, the propor- 
tion of really injurious adulteration has fallen off. Be 
that as it may, it is plain that the opportunity for whole- 
sale experimentation with new substances should not 
be allowed to rest without control in the hands of manu- 
facturers and dealers largely impelled by commercial 
motives. So long as the motive of gain is allowed free 
scope, so long will a small minority of unscrupulous 
persons add cheap, inferior, and sometimes dangerous 
ingredients to foodstuffs. The net of restriction must 

' See U.S. DepL of Agric, Report g4, igii. 



MINERAL POISONS ADDED TO FOOD 43 

be drawn tighter and tighter. The motives leading 
to the tampering with food fall mainly under three 
heads: (i) a desire to preserve food from spoiling or 
deterioration; (2) a puerile fancy— often skilfully 
fostered for mercenary reasons — for a conventional 
appearance, as for polished rice, bleached flour, and 
grass-green peas; and (3) intent to make the less valuable 
appear more valuable — deliberate fraud. Only the 
first-named motive can claim any legitimate justifica- 
tion, and its gratification by the use of chemical pre- 
servatives is surrounded with hygienic difficulties and 
uncertainty, as already set forth. From the unbiased 
view of human physiology the dangers of slow poisoning 
from chemically treated foods must be regarded as no 
less real because they are insidious and not easily traced. 



CHAPTER V 
FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 

Many cases of so-called food poisoning are due to 
the presence of pathogenic bacteria in the food. In 
some instances, as in the typical meat poisoning epidem- 
ics, symptoms develop so soon after eating that the 
particular food involved is immediately suspected and 
laid hands on. In other cases the guilty article of food 
is difficult to trace. Certain cases of tuberculosis are 
undoubtedly caused by swallowing tubercle bacilli 
in the food, but the precise source and date of infection 
can be rarely, if ever, certainly established. 

The presence of pathogenic bacteria in food is 
usually due either to the contamination of the food by 
infected human beings during the process of preparation 
or serving, or to an infection of the animal from which 
the food is derived. The relative importance of these 
two factors is quite different in the various infections. 

TYPHOID FOOD INFECTION 

The typhoid bacillus does not attack any of the 
domestic animals; consequently all food-borne typhoid 
is caused more or less directly by human contamination. 
A remarkable instance of typhoid infection due to food 
was reported in 19 14 in Hanford, California, where 
ninety-three typhoid cases were caused by eating 
Spanish spaghetti served at a public dinner.^ Investi- 
gation showed that this dish was prepared by a woman 

' Sawyer, Jour. Amcr. Med. Assoc, LXIII (1914), 1537. 
44 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 45 

typhoid-carrier who was harboring Kving typhoid ba- 
cilH at the time she mixed the sauce for the spaghetti 
before baking. Further laboratory experiments indi- 
cated that the ordinary baking temperature at which 
the spaghetti was cooked was not only not sufficient to 
sterilize the food, but afforded a favorable opportunity 
for the bacteria in the interior of the mass to multiply. 
The infection of the food was consequently heavy and 
involved a very large proportion (57 per cent) of those 
present at the dinner. 

Merited celebrity attaches to the exploits of the 
typhoid-carrier, Mary Malloy, who, in pursuing her 
career as cook in and about New York City, is known to 
have caused at least seven typhoid outbreaks in various 
families in which she worked and one extensive hospital 
epidemic. Similar cases of typhoid food infection by 
employees in restaurants and public institutions are 
by no means uncommon, and show the necessity of 
protecting food from contamination during the whole 
process of preparation and serving. Acting on this 
principle, the Department of Health of New York City 
has inaugurated a comprehensive examination of the 
cooks and waiters (approximately 90,000) employed 
in the public restaurants and dining-rooms in that city. 
Results have been obtained in the discovery of typhoid- 
carriers and of cases of communicable disease that 
amply justify this procedure as an important measure 
for protecting the community against the dissemination 
of infection. 

Some foods by their origin are exposed more than 
others to typhoid contamination. Such vegetables as 
lettuce, celery, radishes, and watercress, which are 



46 FOOD POISONING 

commonly eaten without cooking, are more likely 
to convey typhoid than peas, beans, and potatoes. A 
typhoid outbreak apparently due to watercress has 
been reported from Philadelphia.' At a wedding break- 
fast to forty-three guests on June 24, 19 13, water- 
cress sandwiches were served, and subsequent inquiry 
showed that nineteen of the guests partook of these 
sandwiches. Eighteen of this number became ill with 
typhoid fever within a month, the illness developing in 
most cases after the guests had scattered to their summer 
homes. Those who did not eat watercress sandwiches 
were not affected. Typhoid infection by uncooked 
celery has also been reported.^ 

The practice of using human excreta as fertilizer in 
truck gardens is sometimes responsible for a danger- 
ous contamination of the soil, which is communicated 
to the growing plants and persists for a long time.^ 
Even scrupulous washing of vegetables is not suffi- 
cient to render them bacterially clean. In the future 
the danger to the community from this source is likely 
to become increasingly serious unless the growing use of 
this method of soil enrichment is definitely checked. 

In 191 5 an increasing number of typhoid cases in 
South Philadelphia led to an investigation by the state 
health department.'* This disclosed the fact that the 
majority of the cases were clustered in and about three 
public markets. 

^ Eng. News, LXX (19 13), 322. 

* Morse, Report of State Board of Health of Mass., 1899, p. 761. 

3 R. H. Creel, Reprint from Public Health Reports, No. 72, Washing- 
ton, 1912. 

* Health Bull. No. 76, Pennsylvania State Department of Healthy 
December, 1915. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 47 

These are all curb markets — fruits, vegetables, pastry, 
clothing, and miscellaneous merchandise of every description are 
dumped on push-carts and pavements without regard for any 
sanitary precautions. The patrons of these markets handle 
and pick over the exposed foodstuffs, thus giving every opportunity 
for the transmission of disease 

The greatest number of cases occurred in the immediate 
vicinity of the Christian Street Market. This market is largely 
patronized by the inhabitants of the section known as ''Little 
Italy." The patrons of the South Street Market are principally 
Hebrews, while the Seventh Street Market is patronized in the 
main by Hebrews and Poles. 

The following conclusion was reached regarding the 
particularly large number of cases among persons of 
one nationality: 

Our inspectors have found that the different methods used 
by the Italians and Hebrews in the preparation of their food are 
responsible for the larger number of cases being found in the 
vicinity of the Christian Street Market in Little Italy. It is the 
custom of the Italians to eat many of the fruits and vegetables 
raw, while the Hebrews cook the greater portion of their food. 
It is presumably due to this custom that the members of the 
Italian colony have suffered to a greater extent than the other 
residents of the district. 

A bacterial examination of various kinds of vege- 
tables obtained from push-carts and curb markets led 
to the finding of the typhoid bacillus upon some of 
the celery. It would naturally be difi&cult to determine 
in such cases whether the typhoid bacilli were derived 
from infected soil in which the celery was grown or 
whether the contamination occurred through improper 
handling. 

Bread, when marketed unwrapped, is subject to 
contamination from flies and from uncleanly handling. 



48 FOOD POISONING 

Katherine HowelP has shown that unwrapped loaves 
of bread sold in Chicago were more or less thickly 
smeared with bacteria and were coated on the average 
with a much larger number than wrapped loaves. In 
some cases typhoid fever has been directly traced to 
bread. Hinton^ has recorded the occurrence of seven 
typhoid cases in the Elgin (Ilhnois) State Hospital, 
which were apparently due to a typhoid-carrier whose 
duty it was as attendant to slice the bread before serving. 
When this typhoid-bearing attendant was transferred 
to another department where she handled no uncooked 
food, cases of typhoid ceased to appear.^ 

Food such as milk that is not only eaten custom- 
arily without cooking, but is also suitable for the 
growth of typhoid bacilli, needs to be particularly safe- 
guarded. It is noteworthy that the compulsory pas- 
teurization of milk in New York, Chicago, and other 
large American cities has been accompanied by a great 
diminution in the prevalence of typhoid fever. Until 
recent years milk-borne typhoid in the United States 
has been common and hundreds of typhoid epidemics 
have been traced to this source. 

One food animal, the oyster, frequently eaten raw, 
has been connected on good evidence with certain 
typhoid outbreaks."* The number of well-established 

^ Amer. Jour. Public Health, II (1912), 321. 
^Institution Quarterly, III (191 2), 18. 

3 See also a similar instance reported by Lumsden, Hyg. Lab., U.S. 
Public Health and Marine Hosp. Service, Bull. 78, p. 165. 

4 For a discussion of the oyster question see G. W. Fuller, Jour, 
of Franklin Institute, August, 1905; N .Y . City Dept. of Health, Monthly 
Bull., November, 1913, and May, 1915; H. S, Gumming, U.S. Public 
Health Service, Pub. Health Bull. 74, March, 1916. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 



49 



oyster typhoid epidemics is not great, however, and 
the danger from this source has sometimes been ex- 
aggerated. The source of oyster contamination is in 
sewage pollution either of the shellfish beds or of the 







' ■ vv\ 




'■ ..: ... . ^%* / '''^: 








^; "•, f *!•"- ~'i ^ ^ 


, ■> 






^ %* 1 « 5^^> i\# ■ ■ 


' 


*f^r1%C/»l4# t'^ife ^ 






■ ; _"* 




*"•., - 


:-. -" '^ vm*% / 


-■s x_ 


■ v\ .^ , r ^X. ■■% ■ / 


' ■' 




\; 









Fig. 5. — Bacteria left by fly passing over gelatin plate, 
courtesy of Doubleday, Page & Company.) 



(By 



brackish water in which the oyster is sometimes placed 
to "fatten" before it is marketed. State and federal 
supervision of the oyster industry in the United States 
in recent years has largely done away with the taking 
of oysters from infected waters, and although oysters — • 



50 FOOD POISONING 

and clams and mussels as well— must be steadily safe- 
guarded against sewage contamination, the actual 
occurrence of oyster infection at the present time is 
believed to be relatively rare. 

Probably the most effective method of preventing 
typhoid food infection is to investigate every case of 
typhoid fever and trace it, so far as practicable, to its 
origin. In this way typhoid-carriers may be discovered 
and other foci of infection brought to Hght. Carriers, 
once found, may be given proper advice and warned 
that they constitute a danger to others; the complete 
control of typhoid-carriers who are not disposed to act 
as advised is a difficult problem and one not yet solved 
by public health authorities. 

ASIATIC CHOLERA 

With Asiatic cholera, just as with typhoid fever, 
domestic animals are not susceptible to the disease, 
all cases of infection having a direct human origin. 
Drinking-water is the usual vehicle of cholera infection, 
and even in countries where the disease is endemic, food- 
borne outbreaks of this disease are far less common 
than those of typhoid fever. Occasional instances of 
Asiatic cholera due to milk supply and to contaminated 
fruits or lettuce are on record, but these are exceptional 
and cannot be regarded as exempHfying a common 
mode of spread of this disease. The extent, however, to 
which dwellers in tropical countries — -and indeed in 
all lands — are at the mercy of their household helpers 
is illustrated by the following experience of the English 
bacteriologist, Hankin. "I have seen," he says, "a 
cook cooling a jelly by standing it in a small irrigation 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 51 

ditch that ran in front of his cookhouse. The water 
running in this drain came from a well in which I had 
detected the cholera microbe. He cleaned a spoon 
by dipping it in the drain and rubbing it with his fingers; 
then he used it to stir the jelly."' 

TUBERCULOSIS 

Animal experiments have shown that both meat and 
milk derived from tuberculous cattle are capable of 
conveying infection. The precise degree of danger 
to human beings from the use of these foods under 
modern conditions is still in dispute. Since the tubercle 
bacillus of bovine origin differs from the tubercle bacillus 
of human origin in certain well-defined particulars, it is 
possible by careful study to distinguish the human 
infections caused by the bovine bacillus from those 
caused by the so-called human tubercle bacillus. Addi- 
tional comparative investigations are needed in this field, 
and these may enable us to estimate eventually more 
fully than is possible at present the extent of human 
tuberculous infection derived from bovine sources. 

Meat is a less likely source of infection than milk, 
chiefly because it is rarely eaten without cooking. 
Opinion regarding the actual frequency of the trans- 
mission of tuberculosis by means of the meat of tubercu- 
lous cattle has been widely at variance in the past, and 
must even now be based on indirect evidence. There 
is no well-established instance of human infection from 
the use of the flesh of tuberculous cattle. The signifi- 
cance of this fact, however, is diminished by the observa- 
tion that tubercle bacilli can pass through the intestinal 

* Lancet, II (1895), 46. 



52 FOOD POISONING 

wall without leaving any trace of their passage and can 
make their way to the lungs or to other distant organs 
where they find opportunity for growth. This, together 
with the long period which usually elapses between 
the actual occurrence of infection and the discovery of 
the existence of infection, makes the difficulty of securing 
valid evidence peculiarly great. Opposed to any very 
frequent occurrence of meat-borne tuberculosis are 
the facts that the tubercle bacillus is not commonly 
or abundantly present in the masses of muscle usually 
marketed as ''meat," that the tubercle germ itself is 
not a spore-bearer and is killed by ordinary cooking, and 
that the reported cases of the finding of tubercle bacilli 
of bovine origin in adults over sixteen years of age are 
extremely rare. This latter fact is perhaps the strongest 
evidence indicating that tuberculous meat infection, 
although theoretically possible, is at least not of common 
occurrence. 

Most of the commissions and official agencies that 
have considered the precautions to be taken against 
possible tuberculous meat infection are agreed that the 
entire carcass of an animal should be condemned when 
the tuberculous lesions are generalized or when the 
lesions are extensive in one or both body cavities as 
well as when the lesions are ''multiple, acute, and 
actively progressive." Any organ showing evidence 
of tuberculous lesions is obviously not to be passed as 
food. On the other hand, it is considered that portions 
of properly inspected animals may be put on the market 
if the tuberculous lesion is local and limited and the main 
part of the body is unaffected ; in such cases contamina- 
tion of the meat in dressing must be avoided. It is the 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 



53 



general belief that when such precautionary measures 
are taken the danger of tuberculous infection through 
properly cooked meat is so slight as to be negligible. 

Milk is a much more likely vehicle than meat for 
the transmission of tuberculosis. Freshly drawn raw 
milk from tuberculous cattle may contain enormous 
numbers of tubercle bacilli, especially if the udder is 
diseased. Contamination of milk by the manure of 
tuberculous cows can also occur. Observers in England, 
Germany, France, and the United States have found 
tubercle bacilli in varying numbers in market milk, 
and have proved that such milk is infectious for labora- 
tory animals. Although, as pointed out with reference 
to meat infection, the difficulties of tracing any partic- 
ular case of tuberculosis to its source are very great, 
there are a number of instances on record in which the 
circumstantial evidence strongly indicates that milk 
was the vehicle of infection. Especially convincing 
are the observations on the relative frequency of infection 
with bovine and human tubercle bacilli at different 
ages as shown in the following tabulation:^ 



Adults Sixteen 
Years Old 
and Over 



Children Five to 

Sixteen Years 

Old 



Children under 
Five Years 



Human tubercle bacilli found 
Bovine tubercle bacilli found 



677 
9 



99 
33 



161 
59 



The large proportion of bovine tubercle bacillus 
infections in children stands in all probabihty in causal 
relation to the relatively extensive use of raw milk 
in the child's dietary. 

^ Park and Krumwiede, Jour. Med. Research, N.S., XVIII 
(1910), 363. 



54 FOOD POISONING 

The proper pasteurization of milk affords a safe and 
reasonably satisfactory means of preventing tuberculous 
infection from this source. The general introduction 
of the pasteurizing process in most American cities has 
ample justification from the standpoint of the prevention 
of infection. 

VARIOUS MILK-BORNE INFECTIONS 

The facts related in the foregoing pages indicate 
that of all foods milk is the most likely to convey 
disease germs into the human body. This is partly 
due to the fact that milk is sometimes obtained from 
diseased animals, and partly to the fact that unless 
great care is taken it may readily become contaminated 
during the process of collection and transportation; if 
milk is once seeded with dangerous bacteria these can 
multiply in the excellent culture medium it affords. 
It is also partly because milk is commonly taken into 
the alimentary tract without being cooked. For these 
reasons the amount of illness traceable to raw milk 
far exceeds that ascribable to any other food. 

There are several infections that may be com- 
municated by milk, but are rarely if ever due to other 
foodstuffs. Diphtheria and scarlet fever are perhaps 
the best known of these. Both diseases have been 
repeatedly traced to the use of particular milk supplies, 
although various forms of individual contact also play 
a large role in their dissemination. Milk-borne scarlet 
fever and diphtheria seem to be generally, if not always, 
due to the direct contamination of the milk from human 
sources. It is considered possible, however, by some 
investigators that the cow may sometimes become 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 55 

infected from human sources with the virus of scarlet 
fever or diphtheria and may herself occasionally con- 
tribute directly to the infection of the milk. • 

A serious milk-borne disease, which has lately been 
conspicuous in Boston, Chicago, Baltimore, and other 
American cities under the name of ''septic sore throat" 
or "streptococcus sore throat," originates apparently in 
some cases from infection of the udder of the cow by an 
infected milker; in other cases the milk has seemingly 
been directly infected by a human "carrier." The 
specific germ is thought to have been isolated and its 
connection with the disease demonstrated in the lab- 
oratory. This disease, Hke diphtheria and scarlet fever, 
is sometimes due to contact. It is not known to be 
caused by any food except milk. 

Foot-and-mouth disease of cattle is transmissible to 
man through the milk of infected cattle, but this infec- 
tion in man is not very common or as a rule very serious. 
So far as known, it is not communicated to man in any 
other way except through the use of uncooked milk. 

Such cases of infection or "poisoning" by milk may 
be prevented, as already stated, by the exclusive use 
of heated milk. The possible occurrence of nutritional 
disturbances (e.g., scurvy) in a small proportion of the 
children fed on pasteurized or boiled milk is considered 
by many physicians to be easily remedied and to possess 
much less practical importance than the avoidance of 
infection. 

POSSIBLE INFECTION WITH B. PROTEUS 

One widely distributed organism known as Bacillus 
proteus has been several times held responsible for food 



56 FOOD POISONING 

poisoning outbreaks, but it is not yet certain how far 
this accusation is justified. B. proteus is related to 
B. coli, but most varieties do not ferment lactose and 
are much more actively proteolytic than the latter 
organism, as shown by their ability to liquefy gelatin 
and casein. Like B. coli, they form indol and ferment 
dextrose with gas production. Varieties of B. proteus 
are found widely distributed in decomposing organic 
matter of all sorts. 

The evidence upon which this bacillus is regarded as 
the cause of food poisoning is not altogether convincing. 
The outbreak described by PfuhP is typical. Eighty- 
one soldiers in a garrison at Hanover were suddenly 
attacked with acute gastro-enteritis four to twelve 
hours after eating sausage meat. The meat was found 
to contain B. proteus in large numbers, although it was 
prepared with ordinary care and was entirely normal in 
appearance, taste, and smell. Rats and mice fed with 
the sausage became ill and B. proteus was isolated from 
the blood and internal organs. But these animals 
sometimes die when fed with quite normal meat, and 
B. proteus and other common intestinal bacteria are 
often isolated from the body after death. B. proteus, 
in fact, is found in many animal foods and in the appar- 
ently normal human intestine. Like B. coli, it fre- 
quently invades the internal organs after or shortly 
before death. Finding B. proteus in food or in the 
internal organs does not therefore constitute definite 
proof of any causal relationship. The evidence attribut- 
ing other outbreaks to infection with B. proteus is 
similarly inconclusive. 

' Ztschr.f. Ilyg., XXXV (1900), 265. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 57 

It is equally uncertain whether the production of a 
poison in food by this species can in any degree be held 
responsible for meat poisoning. B. proteus is common 
enough in decomposing food material and under cer- 
tain circumstances is known to generate substances that 
are toxic for man. It is possibly true that toxic sub- 
stances are produced in the early stages of decom- 
position by this organism. In the opinion of MandeP 
and others, if any injurious effect at all is to be 
attributed to B. proteus, it is in the nature of an intoxica- 
tion and not an infection (see chapter viii). So far as 
the existing evidence goes, the question of the respon- 
sibility of this organism for food poisoning is still an 
open one. 

^ Centralbl.f. BakL, I, Grig., LXVI (191 2), 194. 



CHAPTER VI 

FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA {Continued) 

PARATYPHOID INFECTION 

The most characteristic examples of ''food poisoning," 
popularly speaking, are those in which the symptoms 
appear shortly after eating and in which gastro- 
intestinal disturbances predominate. In the typical 
group-outbreaks of this sort all grades of severity are 
manifested, but as a rule recovery takes place. The 
great majority of such cases that have been investigated 
by modern bacteriological methods show the presence 
of bacilli belonging to the so-called paratyphoid group 
{B. paratyphosus or B. enteritidis) . Especially is it 
true of meat poisoning epidemics that paratyphoid 
bacilli are found in causal relation with them. Hiibener' 
enumerates forty-two meat poisoning outbreaks in 
Germany in which bacilli of this group were shown to 
be imphcated, and Savage^ gives a hst of twenty-seven 
similar outbreaks in Great Britain. In the United 
States relatively few outbreaks of this character have 
been placed on record, but it cannot be assumed that 
this is due to their rarity, since no adequate investiga- 
tion of food poisoning cases is generally carried out in 
our American communities. 

Typical paratyphoid outbreaks. — ^Kaensche^ describes 
an outbreak at Breslau involving over eighty persons 

^ Fleischvcrgiftimgcn u. Paratyphusinjektionen (Jena, 19 lo). 
=^ Rept. to Local Govt. Board, N.S. No. 77 (London, 1913). 
^Zeit.f. Hyg., XXII (1896), 53. 
58 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 59 

in which chopped beef was apparently the bearer of 
infection. The animal from which the meat came had 
been ill with severe diarrhea and high fever and was 
slaughtered as an emergency measure {notgeschlachtet) . 
On examination a pathological condition of the liver 
and other organs was noted by a veterinarian who 
declared the meat unfit for use and ordered it destroyed. 
It was, however, stolen, carried secretly to Breslau, and 
portions of it were distributed to different sausage- 
makers, who sold it for the most part as hamburger 
steak (Hackfleisch). The meat itself presented nothing 
abnormal in color, odor, or consistency. Nevertheless, 
illness followed in some cases after the use of very small 
portions. With some of those affected the symptoms 
were very severe, but there were no deaths. Bacilli of 
the Bacillus enteritidis type were isolated from the meat. 

A large and unusually severe outbreak reported by 
McWeeney^ occurred in November, 1908, among the 
inmates of an industrial school for girls at Limerick, 
Ireland. There were 73 cases with 9 deaths out of the 
total number of 197 pupils. The brunt of the attack 
fell on the first or Senior class comprising 67 girls 
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen. Out of 
55 girls belonging to this class who partook of beef stew 
for dinner 53 sickened, and 8 of these died. One of the 
two who were not affected ate the gravy and potatoes 
but not the beef. Some of the implicated beef was 
also eaten as cold meat by girls in some of the other 
classes, and also caused illness. Part of the meat had 
been eaten previously without producing any ill effects. 
*'The escape of those who partook of portions of the 

^ Brit. Med. Jour., I (1909), 1171. 



6o FOOD POISONING 

same carcass on October 27 and 29 [five days earlier] 
may be accounted for either by unequal distribution of 
the virus, or by thorough cooking which destroyed it. 
Some of the infective material must, however, have 
escaped the roasting of the 29th, and, multiplying 
rapidly, have rendered the whole piece intensely toxic 
and infective during the five days that elapsed before 
the fatal Tuesday when it was finally consumed." 
The animal from which the fore quarter of the beef was 
taken had been privately slaughtered by a local butcher. 
No reliable information could be obtained about the 
condition of the calf at, or slightly prior to, slaughter. 
The meat, however, was sold at so low a price that it was 
evidently not regarded as of prime quality. In this 
outbreak the agglutination reactions of the blood of the 
patients and the characteristics of the bacilli isolated 
showed the infection to be due to a typical strain of 
Bacillus enteritidis. 

An epidemic of food poisoning occurred in July, 191 5, 
at and near Westerly, Rhode Island.^ The outbreak 
was characterized by the usual symptoms of acute 
gastro-enteritis, and followed the eating of pie which 
was obtained at a restaurant in Westerly. All the 
circumstances of the outbreak showed that a particular 
batch of pies was responsible. About sixty persons 
were made seriously ill and four died. There was no 
unusual taste or odor to the pies to excite suspicion. 
The symptoms followed the eating of various kinds of 
pie: custard, squash, lemon, chocolate, apple, etc., 
that had been made with the same pie-crust mixture. 
Bacillus paratyphosus B was isolated from samples of 

^ Bernstein and Fish, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXVI (19 16), 167. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 6i 

pie that were examined. No definite clue was obtained 
as to the exact source of infection of the pie mixture. 
It is possible that the pie became infected in the res- 
taurant through the agency of a paratyphoid-carrier, 
but since there had been no change in the personnel of 
the restaurant for several months, this explanation is 
largely conjectural. Possibly some ingredient of animal 
origin was primarily infected. 

General characters of paratyphoid infection. — The 
symptoms of paratyphoid food infection are varied. 
As a rule the first signs of trouble appear within six 
to twelve hours after eating, but sometimes they may 
come on within half an hour, or they may not appear 
until after twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Gastro- 
intestinal irritatio'n is practically always present, and 
may take the form of a mild "indigestion" or slight 
diarrhea or may be of great severity accompanied with 
agonizing abdominal pain. Fever is usual, but is 
generally not very high. Recovery may occur quickly, 
so that within two or three days the patient regains his 
normal state, or it may be very slow, so that the effects 
of the attack linger for weeks or months. 

Investigators have noted the occurrence of at least 
two clinical types of paratyphoid infection, the com- 
moner gastro-intestinal type just described and a second 
type resembling typhoid fever very closely, and occa- 
sionally not to be distinguished from it except by careful 
bacterial examination. It is not yet clear how these two 
clinical varieties are related to the amount and nature 
of the infecting food material. No difference in the 
type of paratyphoid bacillus has been observed to be 
associated with the difference in clinical manifestation. 



62 FOOD POISONING 

Possibly the amount of toxin present in the food eaten 
as well as the number of bacilli may exercise some 
influence. The individual idiosyncrasy of the patient 
doubtless plays a part. 

While there is still some uncertainty about particular 
features of paratyphoid infection, a few significant facts 
have been clearly established: (i) Certain articles of 
diet are much more commonly associated than others 
with this type of food poisoning. The majority of 
recorded outbreaks are connected with the use of meat, 
milk, fish, and other protein foods. Vegetables and 
cereals have been less commonly implicated, fruits 
rarely. (2) In many, though not all, of the cases of 
paratyphoid meat poisoning it has been demonstrated 
that the meat concerned has been derived from an 
animal slaughtered while ailing {notgeschlachtet, to use 
the expressive German term). There seems reason 
to believe that in such an animal, '' killed to save its 
life," the specific paratyphoid germ is present as an 
infection before death. Milk also has caused para- 
typhoid poisoning and in certain of these cases has been 
found to be derived from a cow suffering from enteritis 
or some other disorder. (3) There is evidence that 
originally wholesome food may become infected with 
paratyphoid bacilli during the process of preparation or 
serving in precisely the same way that it may become 
infected with typhoid bacilli; the handling of the food 
by a paratyphoid-carrier is commonly responsible for 
this. In a few instances the disease is passed on from 
case to case, but this mode of infection seems exceedingly 
rare and is not nearly so frequent as "contact" infection 
in typhoid. (4) The majority of paratyphoid outbreaks 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 63 

are associated with the use of uncooked or partly cooked 
food. A selective action is often manifested, those 
persons who have eaten the incriminated food substance 
raw or imperfectly cooked being most seriously affected, 
while those who have partaken of the same food after 
cooking remain exempt. 

The discovery of the . T^^^^'^'^k 

connection of paraty- -^j'*'*'*'/*^ *I . *\ 

phoid bacilH with meat ACjf £ ''•^^*^ * \* * \ 
poisoning dates from 4^ *^'«*"*^t*' w^ **> 
the investigation by ^^.^ ^^f^t^d.^^^ ^^ 
Gartner,' in 1888, of a ' ** ^^*P "^^f ^ .^"^^ v ^z 
meat poisoning out- 
break in Frankenhau- 
sen, a small town in 
Germany. This epi- 
demic was traced to the 

use of meat from a cow ^i^- ^--BadllusenteHtidis, Gartner; 

^, 111 pure culture; Van Ermengem prepara- 

that was slaughtered ^j^^ (Kolle and Wassermann.) 

because she was ill with 

a severe enteritis. Fifty-eight persons were affected in 
varying grades of severity; the attack resulted fatally in 
one young workman who ate about eight hundred grams 
of raw meat. Gartner isolated from the spleen of the 
fatal case and also from the flesh and intestines of the 
cow a bacillus to which he gav^ the name B. enteriiidis. 
Inoculation experiments showed it to be pathogenic 
for a number of animal species. Bacilli with similar 
characters have since been isolated in a number of 
other meat poisoning epidemics in Germany, Belgium, 
France, and England. One well-studied instance of 

» Breslau aerztl. Ztschr., X (1888), 249. 




64 FOOD POISONING 

food poisoning due to the paratyphoid bacillus has 
been reported in the United States/ 

The bacteria of the paratyphoid group are closely 
related to the true typhoid bacillus, but differ from the 
latter organism in being able to ferment glucose with 
gas production. They are more highly pathogenic for 
the lower animals than is the typhoid bacillus, but 
apparently somewhat less pathogenic for man. Most 
types of paratyphoid bacilH found in food poisoning 
produce more or less rapidly a considerable amount of 
alkali, and, if they are inoculated into milk containing 
a few drops of litmus, the milk after a time becomes 
a deep blue color. Several distinct varieties of para- 
typhoid bacilli have been discovered. The main 
differences shown by these varieties are agglutinative 
differences. That is, the blood serum of an animal that 
has been inoculated with a particular culture or strain 
will agglutinate that strain and also other strains isolated 
from certain other meat poisoning epidemics, but will 
not agglutinate certain culturally similar paratyphoid 
bacteria found in connection with yet other outbreaks. 
Except in this single matter of agglutination reaction, 
no constant distinction between these varieties has been 
demonstrated. The clinical features of the infections 
produced in man and in the higher animals by the dif- 
ferent varieties seem to be very similar if not identical. 

The bacillus discovered by Gartner {loc. cit.) and 
known as B. enteritidis or Gartner's bacillus is commonly 
taken as the type of one of the agglutinative varieties. 
Bacilli with all the characters of Gartner's bacillus have 
been found in meat poisoning epidemics in various 

' Bernstein and Fish, Jour. Amcr. Med. Assoc, LXVI (1916), 167. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 65 

places in Belgium and Germany. Mayer^ has compiled 
a list of forty-eight food poisoning outbreaks occurring 
between 1888 and 191 1 and attributed to B. enteritidis 
Gartner. These outbreaks comprised approximately two 
thousand cases and twenty deaths. In twenty-three 
of the forty-eight outbreaks the meat was derived from 
animals known to be ill at the time, or shortly before, 
they were slaughtered. Sausage and chopped meat of 
undetermined origin were responsible for eleven of the 
remaining twenty-five outbreaks. Two of the B. enter- 
itidis outbreaks were attributed to Vanille Pudding; one, 
to potato salad. 

In other food poisoning outbreaks a bacillus is found 
which is culturally similar to the Gartner bacillus, but 
refuses to agglutinate with the Gartner bacillus serum. 
Its cultural and agglutination reactions are almost, if 
not quite, identical with those of the bacilli found in 
human cases of paratyphoid fever which have no known 
connection with food poisoning. Mayer^ gives a list of 
seventy-seven outbreaks of food poisoning (1893-1911) 
in which organisms variously designated as "^. para- 
typhosus B" or as ^'B. suipestifer^' were held to be 
responsible. The total number of cases (two thousand) 
and deaths (twenty) is about the same as ascribed to 
B. enteritidis. According to Mayer's tabulation meat 
from animals definitely known to be ailing is less com- 
monly implicated in this type (ten in seventy-seven) 
than in B. enteritidis outbreaks (twenty-three in forty- 
eight). Sausage and chopped meat of unknown origin, 
however, were connected with eighteen outbreaks. 

^Deutsche Viertelj.f. djfenll. Ges., XLV (1913), 58-59. 
^Op. cit., pp. 60-62. 



66 FOOD POISONING 

The bacillus named B. suipestifer was formerly 
believed to be the cause of hog cholera, but it is now 
thought to be merely a secondary invader in this disease ; 
it is identical with the bacillus called B. paratypho- 
sus B in its cultural and to a large extent in its agglutina- 
tive behavior, but is regarded by some investigators as 
separable from the latter on the basis of particularly 
delicate discriminatory tests. Bainbridge, Savage, and 
other English investigators consider indeed that the 
true food poisoning cases should be ascribed to B. sui- 
pestifer and would restrict the term B. paratyphosus 
to those bacteria causing "an illness clinically indistin- 
guishable from typhoid fever." German investigators, 
on the other hand, regard B. suipestifer and B. para- 
typhosus B as identical. My own investigations^ indicate 
that there is a real distinction between these two types. 

Bearing directly on this question is the discussion 
concerning the distribution of the food poisoning bacilli 
in nature. Most investigators in Germany, where the 
majority of food poisoning outbreaks have occurred, 
or at least have been bacteriologically studied, are of 
the opinion that B. suipestifer (the same in their opinion 
as B. paratyphosus B) is much more widely distributed 
than B. enteritidis and that it occurs, especially in certain 
regions, as in the southern part of the German Empire, 
quite commonly in the intestinal tract of healthy human 
beings. Such paratyphoid-carriers, it is supposed, may 
contaminate food through handling or preparation 
just as typhoid-carriers are known to do. A number 
of outbreaks in which contamination of food during 
preparation is thought to have occurred have been 

^Jonr. Infect. Dis., XX (1917), 457. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 67 

reported by Jacobitz and Kayser' (vermicelli), Reinhold^ 
(fish), and others. Reinhold notes that in one outbreak 
several persons who had nursed those who were ill 
became ill themselves, indicating possible contact 
infection. In another outbreak also reported by Rein- 
hold it was observed that those who partook of the 
infected food, in this case dried codfish, on the first 
day were not so severely affected as those who ate what 
was left over on the second day. A bacillus belonging 
to the paratyphoid group was isolated from the stools 
of patients, but not from the dried codfish. These 
facts were interpreted as signifying that the fish had 
become infected in the process of preparation and that 
the bacilli multiplied in the food while it was standing. 
There seems no doubt that certain cases of paraty- 
phoid food poisoning are caused by contamination of 
the food during preparation and are, sometimes at 
least, due to infection by human carriers. The bacilli 
in such cases are usually (according to many German 
investigators) or always (according to most English 
bacteriologists) of the B. suipestifer type. Other cases 
are due to pathogenic bacteria derived from diseased 
animals, and these bacteria are often, possibly always, 
of a slightly different character (B. enteritidis Gartner). 
It is still unsettled whether both types of food poisoning 
bacteria are always associated with disease processes 
of man or animals, or whether they are organisms of 
wide distribution which may at times acquire pathogenic 
properties. In certain regions, as in North Germany 
and England, such bacteria are rarely, if ever, found 

^ Centralbl. f. BakL, I Grig., LIII (1910), 377. 

2 Cor.-Bl.f. schweiz. Aerzte, XLII (1912), 281 and 332. 



68 FOOD POISONING 

except in connection with definite cases of disease. 
In parts of Southwest Germany, on the other hand, they 
are said to occur with extraordinary frequency in the 
intestines of healthy men and animals. Savage' believes 
that there is some confusion on this subject owing to the 
existence of saprophytic bacteria which he calls "Para- 
gaertner" forms and which bear a close resemblance 
to the "true" Gartner bacilli. They can be distin- 
guished from the latter only by an extended series of 
tests. The bacilli of this group show remarkable 
variability, and in the opinion of some investigators 
'^mutations" sometimes occur which lead to the trans- 
formation of one type into another.^ 

In spite of the present uncertainty regarding the 
relationship and significance of the varieties observed, 
a few facts emerge plainly from the confusion: (i) The 
majority of meat poisoning outbreaks that have been 
bacterially studied in recent years have been traceable 
to one or another member of this group and not to 
''ptomain poisoning." (2) Bacteria of the paratyphoid 
enteritidis group that are culturally alike but agglutina- 
tively dissimilar can, when taken in with the food, give rise 
to identical clinical symptoms in man. (3) Food poison- 
ing bacteria of this group, when derived directly from 
diseased animals, seem more likely to be of the Gartner 
type (B. enteritidis) than of the B. suipestijer type. 

Toxin production. — ^The problem of the production 
of toxin by the bacteria of this group and the possible 
relation of the toxin to food poisoning has been much 

^Jour. Hyg., XII (1912), i. 

* See Sobernheim and Seligmann, Cenlralbl. /. Bakl., Ref., Beilage, 
L (1911), 134. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 69 

discussed. Broth cultures in which the hving bacilH 
have been destroyed by heat or from which they have 
been removed by filtration contain a soluble poison. 
When this germ-free broth is injected into mice, 
guinea-pigs, or rabbits, the animals die from the effects. 
Practically nothing is known about the nature of the 
poisonous substances concerned, except that they are 
heat-resistant. They are probably not to be classed with 
the so-called true toxins generated by the diphtheria 
and tetanus bacilli, since there is no evidence that they 
give rise to antibodies when injected into susceptible 
animals. In the opinion of some investigators the 
formation of these toxic bodies by the paratyphoid- 
enteritidis bacilli in meat and other protein foodstuffs 
is responsible for certain outbreaks and also for some 
of the phenomena of food poisoning, the rapid develop- 
ment of symptoms being regarded as due to the ingested 
poisons, whereas the later manifestations are considered 
those of a true infection. Opposed to this view is the fact 
that well-cooked food has proved distinctly less liable to 
cause food poisoning than raw or imperfectly cooked food. 
A large proportion of the recorded meat poisoning 
outbreaks are significantly due to sausages made from 
raw meat and to meat pies, puddings, and jellies. This 
is most likely because the heat used in cooking such 
foods is insufficient to produce germicidal results. In 
milk-borne epidemics also it is noteworthy that the users 
of raw milk are the ones affected. For example, respect- 
ing an extensive B. enteritidis outbreak in and about 
Newcastle, England, it is stated: 

In no instance was a person who had used only boiled milk 
known to have been afifected. Thus in one family, consisting of 



70 FOOD POISONING 

husband, wife, and wife's mother, the two women drank a small 
quantity of raw milk from the farm, at the most a tumblerful, 
and both were taken ill about twelve hours later. The husband, 
on the other hand, habitually drank a pint a day, but always 
boiled. He followed his usual custom on this occasion, and was 
unaffected.^ 

When in addition it is taken into consideration that 
the ordinary roasting or btoiling of a piece of meat is 
often not sufficient to produce a germicidal temperature 
throughout, the argument that a heat-resistant toxin 
is present in such cases is not conclusive. It must be 
remembered also that in some outbreaks those persons 
consuming raw or partly cooked meat have been affected 
while at the same time others eating well-cooked meat 
from the same animal have remained exempt; this 
would seem to indicate the destruction of living bacilli 
by heat, since the toxic substances formed by these 
organisms are heat-resistant. The view that a definite 
infection occurs, is favored, too, by the fact that the 
blood-serum of affected persons so frequently has an 
agglutinative action upon the paratyphoid bacillus. 
This would not be the case if the symptoms were due 
to toxic substances alone. Altogether the role of toxins 
formed by B. enteritidis and its allies in food outside 
the body cannot be said to be established. The avail- 
able evidence points to infection as the main, if not the 
sole, way in which the bacilli of this group are harmful. 

Sources of injection. — The main sources of enteritidis- 
suipestifer infection are: (i) diseased domestic animals, 
the infected flesh or milk of which is used for food; 
(2) infection of food by human carriers during the process 

^Report Med. Officer of Health (Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1913). 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 



71 



of preparation or serving. To these may be added a 
third possibihty : (3) contamination of food with bacteria 
of this group which are inhabitants of the normal animal 
intestine. Considering these in order: 

I. Diseased animals: The majority of the meat 
poisoning outbreaks are caused by meat derived from 
pigs or cattle. Table III gives the figures for a number 
of British^ and German^ epidemics. 

TABLE III* 













Belonging to 












This Group but 




B. ENTERITIDIS 


B. SUIPESTIFER 


Undifferen- 












tiated 




British 


German 


Total 


British 


German 


Total 


British 


Pig 


I 


I 


2 


3 


5 


8 


4 


Ox or cow . . 


3 


9 


12 


2 


3 


5 


5 


Calf 





7 


7 


2 


2 


4 





Horse 





I 


I 





I 


I 




Chickens 


I 





I 





I 


I 









* It must be noted that origin of the food from a diseased animal was not definitely 
proved in all the cases cited. Some of these cases should possibly be classed under 
human contamination (2). 

Occasional outbreaks have also been attributed to in- 
fection through eating rabbit, sheep, goose, fish, shrimp, 
and oysters. Especially noteworthy is the relative 
rarity of infection from the meat of the sheep. 

More definite information is needed respecting the 
pathological conditions caused by these bacteria in- 
animals and the relation of such conditions to sub- 
sequent human infection. A rather remarkable problem 
is presented by the relation of B. suipestifer to hog 
cholera. This bacillus, although not now considered 

^ Compiled from Savage, Report of Local Gov't Board, 19 13. 
» Mayer, Deutsche Viertelj.f. ofentl. Ges., XLV (1913), 8. 



72 FOOD POISONING 

the causal agent of hog cholera, is very commonly 
associated with the disease as an accessory or secondary 
invader, and is frequently found in the internal organs 
of swine after death. It might be supposed that in 
regions where hog cholera is prevalent human infections 
would be more common than in other districts, but this 
seems not to be the case. No connection has ever 
been demonstrated between outbreaks of hog cholera— 
in which B. suipestifer is known to be abundantly 
distributed — ^and so-called B. suipestifer infections in 
man. 

Suppurative processes in cattle, and especially in 
calves, have given rise to poisoning from the use of the 
meat or milk of the infected animals. It has been often 
demonstrated that bacteria of the enteritidis-suipestijer 
group are associated with inflammation of the udder 
in cows and with a variety of septicemic conditions in 
cattle and other domestic animals as well as with 
manifestations of intestinal disturbances ("calf diar- 
rhea," etc.).^ The frequency with which poisoning has 
occurred through the use of the meat of ''emergency- 
slaughtered" animals has been already mentioned. 
K. F. Meyer^ has reported an instance of accidental 
infection in a laboratory worker caused by handling 
a bottle of sterilized milk that had been artificially 
contaminated with a pure culture of B. enteritidis for 
experimental purposes. The strain responsible for the 

^ Although not directly connected with the question of food poison- 
ing, it is of interest to note that certain diseases of birds have been 
traced to infection with members of this group of bacteria. In a few 
cases, as in several epidemics among parrots in Paris and elsewhere, 
the infection has been communicated to man by contact. 

""Joiir. Infect. Dis., XIX (1916), 700. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 73 

infection had been isolated from the heart blood of a 
calf that had succumbed to infectious diarrhea. 

2. Human contamination: In a certain number of 
paratyphoid food infections there is some evidence that 
the food was originally derived from a healthy animal 
and became infected from human sources during the 
process of preparation. In addition to the instances 
already mentioned (Reinhold et al., p. 67) the Ware- 
ham (England, 19 10) epidemic^ was considered by the 
investigators to be due to infection of meat pies by a 
cook who was later proved to be a carrier of paratyphoid 
bacilli. The evidence in this case, however, is not 
altogether conclusive. Soderbaum^ mentions a milk- 
borne paratyphoid epidemic occurring in Kristiania 
which was ascribed to infection of the milk by a woman 
milker. Sacquepee and Bellot^ report an interesting 
paratyphoid outbreak involving nineteen out of two 
hundred and fifty men in a military corps. The patients 
fell ill on different dates between June 14 and June 21. 

It was found that an assistant cook who had been in the 
kitchen for several months had been attacked a little before the 
epidemic explosion by some slight malady which was not definitely 
diagnosed. He had been admitted to the hospital and was 
discharged convalescent. The cook, on being recalled and 
quarantined, stated that some days before June 10 he was indis- 
posed with headache and anorexia. He had nevertheless con- 
tinued his service in the kitchen B. paratyphosus B 

{B. suipestifer) was repeatedly found in his stools in August, 
September, and October In all probability, therefore, the 

^ R. Trommsdorff, L. Rajchmann, and A. E. Porter, Jour. Hyg., 
XI (1911), 89. 

='ffyg«m,LXXV(i9i3), I. 

^ Progres mH., 3d series, XXVI (1910), 25. 



74 FOOD POISONING 

outbreak was due to food contaminated by a paratyphoid-carrier 
who had passed through an abortive attack of the fever.^ 

Bainbridge and Dudfield^ describe an outbreak of acute 
gastro-enteritis occurring in a boarding-house; it was 
found that no one article of food had been eaten by all 
the persons affected, and there were other reasons for 
supposing the outbreak to be due to miscellaneous food 
contamination by a servant who was a carrier. 

There is, therefore, ground for believing that occa- 
sional contamination of food may be brought about 
by bacteria of this group derived from human sources. 
It is not clear, however, how frequent this source of 
infection is, compared to infection originating in diseased 
animals. It must be admitted, too, that English investi- 
gators are disposed to look upon outbreaks similar to 
those just described as infections with B. paratypho- 
sus B, an organism which they would distinguish from 
the "true" food poisoning bacilli, B. enteritidis and 
B. suipestifer. 

3. Miscellaneous contaminations: Some investiga- 
tors, especially certain German writers, regard the bacilli 
of the parat3^hoid group as so widely distributed 
in nature that any attempt to control the spread of 
infection is like fighting windmills. According to this 
view the bacilli occur commonly in our everyday sur- 
roundings and thence make their way rather frequently 
into a variety of foodstuffs. Various German investi- 
gators have reported the presence of paratyphoid bacilli 
in the intestinal contents of apparently normal swine, 
cattle, rats, and mice and more rarely of other animals, 

^ Ledingham and Arkwright, The Carrier Problem in Infectious 
Diseases, pp. 152-53. 

'Jour. Hyg., XI (1911), 24. 



FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 75 

in water and ice, in German sausage and chopped meat, 
and in the bodies of apparently healthy men. To what 
extent their alleged ubiquity is due to mistaken bacterial 
identification, as claimed by some English investigators, 
remains to be proved. There is no doubt that in some 
quarters exaggerated notions have prevailed respecting 
a wide distribution of the true paratyphoid bacteria. 
Savage and others believe that the hypothesis that food 
poisoning outbreaks are derived from ordinary fecal 
infection of food is quite unfounded. It is pointed out 
that there is good evidence of the frequent occurrence 
of intestinal bacteria in such food as sausages and 
chopped meat, and that consequently, if paratyphoid 
infections could occur through ordinary contamination 
with intestinal bacteria not connected with any specific 
animal infection, food poisoning outbreaks should be 
exceedingly common instead of — as is the case — ^com- 
paratively rare. 

At the present time even those who maintain that 
these bacilli are of common occurrence admit that their 
abundance is more marked in some regions than in 
others. Southwest Germany, for example, seems to 
harbor paratyphoid bacilli in relatively large numbers. 
Possibly local differences in distribution may account 
for the discrepancies in the published findings of German 
and British investigators. 

A special case is presented by the relation of these 
bacilli to rats and mice. Among the large number of 
bacteria of the paratyphoid group is the so-called 
Danysz bacillus, an organism quite pathogenic for 
rodents, and now and again used in various forms as a 
^'rat virus" for purposes of rodent extermination. 
Several outbreaks of food poisoning in man have been 



76 FOOD POISONING 

attributed on more or less cogent evidence to food 
contamination by one of these viruses either directly 
by accident, as in the case described by Shibayama,' in 
which cakes prepared for rats were eaten by men, or 
indirectly through food contaminated by mice or rats 
that had been infected with the virus.^ The use of 
such viruses has not proved of very great practical value 
in the destruction of rodents, and is open to serious 
sanitary objections, since the animals after apparent 
recovery can continue to carry the bacilli of the virus 
and to distribute them on or near food substances. 

It seems possible that rats and mice may become 
infected with certain bacteria of this group without 
human intervention, and that these infected animals 
may be the means of contaminating foodstuffs and so 
causing outbreaks of food poisoning. Proof of the 
frequency with which this actually occurs is naturally 
difficult to obtain. 

There is no escape from the conclusion that in any 
given case of food poisoning the exact source of infection 
is often largely conjectural. Even when suspicion falls 
strongly on a particular article of food, it may not be 
possible to establish beyond a reasonable doubt whether 
the material (meat or milk) came from a diseased animal 
or whether it was infected from other sources (man or 
other animals) at some stage during the process of prepa- 
ration and serving. The most definitely attested cases 
yet put on record are those in which it is possible to trace 
the infection to food derived from an ailing animal. 

^ Miinch. med. Wchnschr., LIV (1907), 979. 

2 See, for example, H. Langer and Thomann, Deutsche med. 
Wchnschr., XL (19 14), 493- 



. FOOD-BORNE PATHOGENIC BACTERIA 77 

Means of prevention. — The most obvious and prob- 
ably the most important method of preventing infection 
with paratyphoid bacilli is the adoption of a system of 
inspection which will exclude from the market as far 
as ppssible material from infected animals. To be most 
effective such inspection must be directed to exam- 
ination of the living animal. The milk or the meat 
from diseased animals may give no visible sign of 
abnormality. In the Ghent outbreak of 1895 the 
slaughter-house inspector, a veterinary surgeon, was 
so firmly convinced that the meat which he had passed 
could have had no connection with the outbreak, that 
he ate several pieces to demonstrate its wholesomeness. 
The experiment had a tragic ending, as the inspector 
was shortly attacked with severe choleraic symptoms and 
died five days later, paratyphoid bacilli being found 
at the autopsy. Mliller^ also has described a case in 
which paratyphoid bacilli were found in meat that had 
given rise to a meat poisoning outbreak although the 
meat was normal in appearance and the organs of the 
animal showed no evidence of disease to the naked eye. 
It is evident that inspection of the live animal will 
often reveal evidence of disease which might be missed 
in the ordinary examination of slaughter-house products. 

Although inspection of cows used for milking and of 
food animals before slaughter is highly important, it 
does not constitute an absolute protection. Emphasis 
must be repeatedly laid on the fact that meat, and 
especially milk that is derived from seemingly healthy 
animals, may nevertheless contain paratyphoid bacilli. 
To meet this difficulty in part the direct bacterial 

^Ztschr.f. Infektionsk d. Haustiere, VIII (1910), 237. 



78 FOOD POISONING 

examination of the carcasses of slaughtered food animals 
has been proposed, but this seems hardly practicable 
as a general measure. In spite of all precautions taken 
at the time of slaughtering it seems probable that occa- 
sionally paratyphoid-infected meat will pass the first 
line of defense and be placed on the market. 

This danger, which is probably not a very grave 
one under a reasonably good system of inspection of live 
animals, may be met by thoroughly cooking all foods 
of animal origin. It is worth noting that some of the 
internal organs, as the liver and kidneys, are more 
likely to contain bacteria than the masses of muscle 
commonly eaten as "meat." Sausages, from their 
composition and mode of preparation, and chopped 
meat ("hamburger steak") are also to be treated with 
especial care. Consumption of such foods as raw 
sausage or diseased goose liver (pate de foie gras) 
involves a relatively high risk. It is true of paratyphoid 
infection as of most other forms of food poisoning that 
thorough cooking of food greatly diminishes the likeli- 
hood of trouble. 

Whatever be the precise degree of danger from food 
infection by healthy paratyphoid- carriers (man or 
domestic animals), it is obvious that general measures 
of care and cleanliness will be more or less of a safeguard. 
As with typhoid fever so all outbreaks of paratyphoid 
should be thoroughly investigated in order that the 
sources of infection may be found and eUminated. 
The possible connection of rats and mice with these 
outbreaks should furnish an additional incentive to 
lessen the number of such vermin as well as to adopt 
measures of protecting food against their visits. 



CHAPTER VII 
ANIMAL PARASITES 

Not only pathogenic bacteria but certain kinds of 
animal parasites sometimes enter the human body in 
or upon articles of food. One of the most important 
of these is the parasite causing trichiniasis. 

TRICHINIASIS 

Trichiniasis or trichinosis is a disease characterized 
by fever, muscular pains, an enormous increase in the 
eosinophil blood corpuscles, and other more or less 
well-defined symptoms; at the onset it is sometimes 
mistaken by physicians for typhoid fever. The respon- 
sible parasite is a roundworm {Trichinella spiralis, 
formerly known as Trichina) which is swallowed while 
in its encysted larval stage in raw or imperfectly cooked 
pork.^ The cysts or envelopes in which the parasites 
live are dissolved by the digestive fluids and the young 
larvae which are liberated develop in the small intestine 
to the adult worm, usually within two days. The 
young embryos, which are produced in great numbers 
by the mature worms, gain entrance to the lymph 
channels and blood stream, and after about ten days 
begin to invade the muscles — a procedure which gives 
rise to many of the most characteristic symptoms of 
the infection. It is estimated that in severe cases as 
many as fifty million embryos may enter the circulation. 

^ The consumption of raw sausage made with pig meat is particu- 
larly likely to give rise to trichiniasis. 

79 



8o 



FOOD POISONING 




The parasites finally quiet down and become encysted 
in the muscle tissue and the symptoms, as a rule, 
gradually subside. Ingestion of a large number of para- 
sites at one time often results fatally, the mortality 
from trichiniasis being on the average somewhat over 
5 per cent and rising in some outbreaks to a much higher 

figure (30 percent) . 
On the other hand, 
many infections 
are so light as to 
pass unnoticed. 
Williams^ found 
Trichinella em- 
bryos present in 
5 . 4 per cent of the 
bodies of persons 
dying from other 
causes. Such find- 
ings are considered 
to indicate that occasional slight Trichinella infections 
even in the United States are quite common. This 
might indeed be expected from the frequent occurrence 
of infection in swine, about 6 per cent of these animals 
being found to harbor the parasite. 

The specific symptoms (such as the muscular pain) 
of trichiniasis may be due in part to mechanical damage 
of the muscle tissue, but it is also probable that they are 
partly due to toxic products exuded by the worms and 
partly to the introduction of alien protein material — ■ 
the protein of the worm^nto the tissues. Secondary 
bacterial infection is also a possibility, but there is 

' Jotir. Med. Research, VI (1901), 64. 



Fig. 7. — ^Trichinae encysted in inter- 
costal muscle of pig. (About 35X1.) (After 
Neumann and Mayer.) 



ANIMAL PARASITES 8i 

little evidence to prove that this is an important factor 
in most cases of trichiniasis. The various stages 
observed in the progress of the disease are plainly 
connected with the different phases of the worm's 
development — ^the initial localization in the intestines, 
the invasion of the muscles, and the final encyst- 
ment. 

Swine become infected with this parasite by eating 
scraps of infected meat, or the offal of their own kind, 
or by eating infected rats. The rat, through its can- 
nibalistic propensities, becomes infected frequently, and 
is one of the chief factors in the wide dissemination of 
the disease. Human infection is practically accidental 
and self -limited ; biologically speaking, man as a host 
does not enter into the calculations of the parasite. 

Treatment of established trichiniasis infection is 
palliative, not truly remedial. The parasites, once 
inside the body, cannot be materially affected by the 
administration of any drug. While cure of trichiniasis 
is thus difficult, if not impossible, prevention is very 
simple. The thorough cooking of all food is sufficient 
to preclude infection. This relatively simple means 
of destroying the larvae is a more certain as well as less 
^expensive method of preventing infection than is the 
laborious microscopic examination of the tissues of 
every slaughtered hog. In Germany between 1881 and 
1898 over 32 per cent of 6,329 cases of trichinosis that 
were investigated were traced to meat that had been 
microscopically examined and passed as free from tri- 
chinae.^ On the other hand, thorough cooking removes 
all possibility of danger. 

* Edelraann, Mohler, and Eichhom, Meat Hygiene^ 1916, p. 182. 



82 FOOD POISONING 

TENIASIS 

Various tapeworm or cestode infections are con- 
tracted by eating meat containing the parasite. Partic- 
ular species of tapeworm usually infest the flesh of 
specific hosts, as Tenia saginata in the beef and Tenia 
solium in the hog. The dwarf tapeworm, Hymenolepis 
nana, develops in rats, and the human infections with 



Fig. 8. — Cysticercus celhdosae in pig's tongue. (After Neumann and Mayer.) 

this parasite occasionally observed are probably caused 
by contamination of food by these animals. 

Sometimes the existence of the tapeworm in man 
is restricted to the alimentary tract and the symptoms 
vary from trivial to severe, but sometimes {Tenia 
solium) the larval stage of the tapeworm invades the 
tissues and becomes encysted in various organs (brain, 
eye, etc.), where, as in the case of cerebral infection, it 
may result fatally. The encysted larva of Tenia solium 



ANIMAL PARASITES 8^ 

was at one time regarded as an independent animal 
species and named Cysticercus cellulosae. The condition 
known as ^'measly pork" is produced by the occurrence 
of this encysted parasite. 

So-called hydatid disease is due to the cystic growth 
produced by the larva of a species of tapeworm (Echino- 
coccus) inhabiting the intestine of the 'dog. Human 
infection may be caused by contaminated food as well 
as more directly by hands soiled with petting infected 
dogs. Several varieties of tapeworms infesting fish, 
especially certain fresh-water species, may be intro- 
duced into the human body in raw or partly cooked 
fish. 

Methods for the prevention of tapeworm infection 
include the destruction of the larvae by heat— that is, 
the thorough cooking of all meat and fish — and the 
minimization of close contact with those animals, such 
as the dog and cat, that are likely to harbor parasites. 
Cleanliness in the preparation and serving of food, and 
attention to hand-washing before meals, and especially 
after touching pet animals, are necessary corollaries. 

UNCINARIASIS 

Hookworm infection (uncinariasis, ankylostomiasis) 
is commonly caused by infection through the skin of 
the feet, but the possibility of mouth infection cannot 
be disregarded, and in regions where hookworm disease 
exists methods of guarding against food contamination 
should be practiced, as well as other precautions. 
Billings and Hickey^ believe that hookworm disease is 
contracted by unconscious coprophagy (from raw vege- 
tables) much more frequently than is generally supposed. 

^ Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXVII (1916), 1908. 



84 FOOD POISONING 

OTHER PARASITES 

A number of other parasitic worms (e.g., Strong- 
yloides, Ascaris or eelworm, and Oxyuria or pinworm) 
may conceivably enter the human body in contaminated 
food, and while, as in hookworm disease, other modes of 
infection are probably more important, the liability to 
occasional infection by uncooked food must not be 
overlooked. 




Fig. 9. — Lamblia inieslmalis. (After Neumann and Mayer.) 

Various forms of dysentery or diarrhea have been 
attributed to infection with Giardia (Lamblia) intes- 
tinalis. Observations made by Fantham and Porter^ 
upon cases contracted in Gallipoli and Flanders have 
given support to this view. Strains of this parasite of 
human origin have been shown to be pathogenic for 
mice and kittens. It is considered possible that these 
animals may act as reservoirs of infection and spread 
the disease by contamination of human food. 

^ Bril. Med. Jour., II (1916), 139. 



CHAPTER VIII 

POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD BY BAC- 
TERIA AND OTHER MICRO-ORGANISMS 

In close relation to the cases of infection with animal 
or plant parasites which have been discussed, there 
are certain well-established instances of poisoning by 
substances that have been generated in food while 
it is still outside of the body. This is the common 
type of food poisoning in popular estimation, but in 
point of fact the proved cases of this class are much 
less frequent than the instances of true infection with 
bacteria of the paratyphoid-enteritidis group (chapter vi) . 
Thus far the best-known examples of poisoning by the 
products of micro-organisms are botulism and ergotism. 

ERGOTISM 

Ergotism or ergot poisoning is due to the use of rye 
that has become diseased through the attack of a fun- 
gus, Claviceps purpurea. It occurred frequently in the 
Middle Ages when in times of famine the ergot or 
spurred rye (O.Fr. argot, "sl cock's spur") was often 
used in default of better food. In Limoges in 922 it is 
said that forty thousand persons perished from this 
cause. Improvement in the facilities for transportation 
of food into regions where crops have failed, and the 
use of special methods for separating the diseased grain 
from the wholesome have greatly reduced the prevalence 
of ergotism. In Western Europe poisoning from this 
cause has practically ceased, although Hirsch recorded 

85 



86 FOOD POISONING 

some twenty-eight outbreaks in the nineteenth century; 
in parts of Russia the disease is said still to occur in 
years of bad harvest/ 

The poison ergot itself has long been used as a drug 
in obstetrics, but its composition is complex and is 
still not completely understood. Several constituents 
of ergot have been extracted, and these have been 
shown to possess different physiological effects.^ The 
symptoms observed in the outbreaks of ergotism of 
mediaeval times are not wholly reproduced experi- 
mentally by the drug and are thought to have been 
in part due to the semi-starvation engendered by the 
use of rye from which the nutritious portions had been 
largely removed by the growth of the fungus. 

BOTULISM 

The best established case of poisoning by means of 
bacterial products taken in with the food is the serious 
malady known somewhat inappropriately as botulism 
(botulus, sausage) .^ This kind of food poisoning, which 
has a characteristic set of symptoms, seems to have 
been first recognized and described in 1820 by the 

^ Another species of Claviccps (C. paspali) which attacks the seeds 
of a wild grass is believed to be responsible for certain outbreaks of 
poisoning among cattle and horses {Science, XLIII [1916], 894). 

2 Barger {Jour. Chem. Soc, XCV [1909], 1123) has shown that 
parahydroxyphenylethylamine is present in ergot and is in some degree 
responsible for the physiological action of the drug. 

3 Although some of the early outbreaks were traced to the use of 
sausage, particularly in Wiirttemberg, the proportion of recent botulism 
poisoning attributed to this food is no greater than of sausage-conveyed 
infections with the paratyphoid bacillus (chap, vi), and a number of the 
most completely studied outbreaks of botulism have been traced to 
ham, beans, and other foods. 



POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 87 

German poet and medical writer Justinus Kerner. In 
two articles (1820-22) he enumerates 174 cases with 71 







7 



Fig. 10. — Claviceps purpurea: i, ergot on rye-grass; 2, ergot on 
rye; 3, section of a portion of the conidial form of fruit, X300; 4, a 
sclerotium or ergot; 5, head of ascigerous form of fruit; 6, an 
ascus, X300; 7, a single spore, X300. (After Massee, Plant Diseases, 
by courtesy of the Macmillan Company.) 

deaths occurring in Wiirttemberg between 1793 and 1822 
and apparently in most cases connected with the use 



88 FOOD POISONING 

of insufficiently smoked sausage. Mayer ^ tabulates 
about 600 additional cases observed in various parts of 
Germany down to the end of 1908, the total mortality 
in the 800 cases being about 25 per cent. In France 
botulism is said to be very rare.^ In Great Britain 
Savage^ declares that he has been unable to trace the 
occurrence of a single outbreak. In the United States 
several instances of botulism poisoning are on record 
(Sheppard/ 1907, 3 cases, 3 deaths, canned pork and 
beans; Peck,^ 19 10, 12 cases, 11 deaths; Wilbur and 
Ophiils,^ 1914? canned string beans, 12 cases, i death; 
Frost,7 191 5, 3 cases, 3 deaths). Professor Stiles^ has 
given a graphic description of his own attack of probable 
botuHsm due in all Hkelihood to minced chicken. 

Symptoms. — The description of a case seen by 
Wilbur and Ophiils^ is so typical that it may be cited: 

Girl, aged 23, Tuesday evening, Nov. 23, 1913, ate the dinner 
including the canned string beans of the light green color together 
with a little rare roast beef. The following day she felt perfectly 
normal except that at 10:00 in the evening the eyes felt strained 
after some sewing. Thursday morning, thirty-six hours after 
the meal, when the patient awoke, the eyes were out of focus, 
appetite was not good, and she felt very tired. At night she had 
still no appetite, was nauseated, and vomited the noon meal 
apparently undigested. Friday morning, two and one-half 

^Deutsche Viertelj.f. ofentl. Ges., XLV (1913), 8. 
2E. Sacquepee, Progres med., XXVI (1910), 583- 
3 Report to Local Govt. Board on Bacterial Food Poisoning and Food 
Inspection, N.S. No. 77, 1913, p. 27. 

4 Southern Cal. Pract., XXII (1907), 370. 

sibid., XXV (1910), 121. 

^Arch. of Int. Med., XIV (1914), 589- 

T Amer. Med., X (1915), 85. . 

^Jonr. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXI (1913), 2301. '^ Loc. cit. 



POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 89 

days after the meal, the eyes were worse, objects being seen double 
on quick movement, and it was noticed that they had a tendency 
to be crossed. A peculiar mistiness of vision was also complained 
of. She was in bed until late in the afternoon, when she visited 
Dr. Black. She had had some disturbance in swallowing previous 
to this time and stated that it felt as if "something came up from 
below" that interfered with deglutition. The fourth day she 
remained in bed, was much constipated, and noticed a marked 
decrease in the amount of urine voided. There was at no time 
pain except for occasional mild abdominal cramps, no headache, 
subnormal temperature, and a normal pulse. The fourth and 
fifth days the breathing became difficult at times and swallowing 
was almost impossible. The patient complained of a dry throat 
with annoying thirst. The sixth day there were periods of a 
sense of suffocation with a vague feeling of unrest and as if there 
might be difficulty in getting the next breath. The upper lids 
had begun to droop. The voice was nasal. When the attempt 
was made to swallow liquids they passed back through the nose. 
The patient felt markedly weak. 

Physical examination at this time showed ptosis of both 
upper eyelids, dilatation of the right pupil, sluggish reaction to 
light of both pupils, apparent paralysis of the internal rectus of 
the left eye, normal retina, inability to raise the head, control 
apparently having been lost of the muscles of the neck, inability 
to swallow, absence of taste. The tongue was heavily coated 
and the throat was covered with a viscid whitish mucus clinging 
to the mucous membrane. The soft palate could be raised but 
was sluggish, particularly on the right side. The exudate on the 
right tonsil was so marked that it resembled somewhat a diph- 
theritic membrane. The seventh day there was some change in 
the condition; occasional periods occurred when swallowing 
was more effective, and there was less tendency to strangle. On 
the eleventh day there was some improvement of the eyes, still 
stranghng on swallowing, sensation of taste was keener, and the 
general condition improved. The twelfth day the patient was 
able to move her head, but was unable to lift it except when she 
took hold of the braids of her hair, and pulled the head forward. 
The eyes could be opened slightly, speech was less nasal and 



90 FOOD POISONING 

more distinct, and improvement in swallowing was marked. At 
the end of two weeks the patient was able to take soft diet freely, 
and at four weeks she was up in a chair for a couple of hours 
complaining only of general weakness and inability to use her 
eyes. At the end of five weeks she was able to leave the hospital 
and return to her home and later to resume her regular work. 

In all cases the nervous system is strikingly affected 
in this form of food poisoning. Dizziness, double vision, 
difficulty in chewing and swallowing, and other symp- 
toms of nervous involvement occur with varying in- 
tensity and may persist for a long time after the first 
signs of the attack. Temperature, pulse, and respiration 
remain practically normal. In contrast with the 
traditional type of food poisoning gastro-intestinal 
symptoms may be sHght or altogether lacking. Freedom 
from abdominal pain is usually noted; diarrhea is the 
exception and constipation the rule; vomiting sometimes 
occurs, but may be absent. In the cases described by 
Sheppard there was "an entire absence of the usual 
gastro-intestinal symptoms from first to last, no pain 
or sensory disturbance and no elevation of temperature." 
The visual disturbances are very characteristic. Stiles 
relates his own experiences as follows: 

Vertigo and nystagmus developed [a few hours after eating] 
in a startling degree, the car [in which he was being taken to his 
house] seemed to be ascending an endless spiral, the stars made 
circles in the sky, and the houses by the wayside reeled. The 
lighted doorway of my house seemed to approach and surround 
me as I was carried in. My bed for the moment presented itself 
as a vertical surface which I could not conceive to be a resting 

place Whenever I opened my eyes on this day [the next 

day] the impression of gyration of the room was appalling 

To turn my head even very slowly from one side to the other 
brought an accession of the overpowering giddiness .... [eight 



POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 91 

days after the beginning of the attack]. The nystagmus now 
became limited to momentary onsets, but in its place I became 
aware of a peculiar diplopia. The image of one retina was not 
merely displaced from the position of its fellow but was tilted 

about 15 degrees from parallel This fantastic diplopia 

gradually gave place to the familiar variety and this occurred 
less and less often as my convalescence proceeded. From [this 
date] my recovery pursued a course which was dishearteningly 
slow but free from any setbacks. Among the persistent symptoms 
were .... the visual difficulties mentioned. The left pupil 
was usually smaller than the right and I thought I detected a 
slight failure to relax accommodation with the left eye. Reading 
was difficult for several weeks and the ability to write, as requiring 
closer fixation, was still longer in returning. 

In the cases reported by Sheppard visual symptoms 
were the initial signs of trouble, double vision, mistiness, 
and inability to hit the mark in shooting being the first 
complaint. 

The time elapsing between eating the implicated food 
and the onset of the earliest symptoms is usually between 
twelve and forty-eight hours, but may be much less. 
In Stiles's case the interval was apparently less than 
three hours. 

Anatomical lesions.— In fatal cases no characteristic 
gross changes are observed in the various organs. It 
has been stated by some writers that microscopic 
degenerative changes occur in the ganglion cells, involv- 
ing especially the so-called Nissl granules, but in the 
carefully studied case reported by Ophiils' the Nissl 
granules were quite normal in size, arrangement, and 
staining qualities. There was, in fact, no evidence to 
substantiate the hypothesis of a specific action of the 
toxin on the nerve-cells. On the other hand, Ophuls 

^ Loc. cit. 



92 FOOD POISONING 

found numerous hemorrhages in the brain-stem and 
multiple thromboses in both the arteries and veins. 
He holds, consequently, that the indications of severe 
disturbances of brain circulation associated with hemor- 
rhages and thrombosis in medulla and pons are sufficient 
to explain the symptoms of botulism poisoning without 
having recourse to the assumption that the poison has 
a specific action on certain ganglion cells. 

Bacteriology. — The cause of botulism poisoning was 
discovered by Van Ermengem to be the toxin produced 
by a bacillus which he named B. hotulinus. This 
organism was isolated from portions of a ham that had 
caused fifty cases of poisoning (1895) at EUezelles 
(Belgium), and also from the spleen and gastric contents 
of one of the three fatal cases. The bacillus grows only 
in the absence of oxygen (strict anaerobe), stains by 
Gram's method, forms terminal spores, and develops best 
at 22° C. Unlike most bacteria dangerous to man, it 
appears unable to grow in the human body, and its 
injurious effect is limited to the action of the toxin 
produced in foodstuffs outside the body. Botulism is 
an intoxication — ^not an infection. The fact that the 
bacillus can grow in nature only when the free 
oxygen supply is cut off explains in part at least the 
relatively rare occurrence of botulism since all the 
conditions necessary for the production of the botulism 
toxin do not commonly concur. Next to nothing is 
known as to how widely B. hotulinus is distributed. 
Except in connection with the cases of poisoning it has 
been reported but once in nature.^ The botulism poison 

^ In the feces of a healthy pig (Kempner and Pollock, Deutsche 
med. Wchnschr., XXIII [1897], 505). 






POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 93 

is a true bacterial toxin, chemically unstable, destroyed 
by heating at 8o°C. for 30 minutes, capable of provoking 
violent symptoms in minute doses, and possessing the 
property characteristic of all true toxins of generating 
an antitoxin when injected in small, non-fatal doses 
into the bodies of susceptible animals. In animal 
experiments the toxin 

formed by B. botulinus ^ '^ ^ ^ /l 

has been found capable 
of reproducing the typi- 
cal cHnical picture of 

this form of food poison- * ^^ ^ y 

ing. Symptoms of '/*< \ it / \ ^ l 
paralysis are produced ^ t 

in rabbits, guinea-pigs, ^^ . / 

and other animals by ^ # **T 

the injection of so small | » 

a dose as O.OOOI C.C. of Yig. h— Bacillus botulinus with 

a filtered broth culture, spores. Pure culture on sugar-gelatin. 

Epidemiology. — The ^^^ Ermengem preparation. (Kolle 

,.,. , , . , and Wassermann.) 

conditions under which 

B. botulinus occurs and is given opportunities for multiply- 
ing are not completely known. It is possible that there 
are localities where this bacillus is particularly abundant 
in the soil or in the intestinal contents of swine or other 
domestic animals, but on the whole it seems more 
probable that the organism is widely distributed, but 
that it does not often find suitable conditions for entrance 
into, and multiplication in, human food. Practically 
all the reported cases of botuHsm have been caused 
by food which has been given some sort of preliminary 
treatment, as smoking, pickling, or canning, then 



94 FOOD POISONING 

allowed to stand for a time, and eaten before cooking. 
Since both the bacillus, including the spore stage, and 
its toxin are destroyed by relatively slight heating, it is 
clear that a rather unusual set of factors must co-operate 
in order that botulism poisoning shall take place. 
These are evidently: (i) the presence of the bacilli in 
sufficient numbers in a suitable foodstuff; (2) the initial 
preparation of the food by a method that does not 
destroy the B. hotulinus — -inadequate smoking, too 
weak brine,^ or insufficient cooking; (3) the holding of 
this inadequately preserved food for a sufficient length 
of time under the right conditions of temperature and 
lack of oxygen; (4) the use of this food, in which con- 
ditions have conspired to favor the production of toxin 
by B. hotulinus, without final adequate cooking. It 
seems as reasonable to suppose that the infrequency 
with which these several factors coincide is responsible 
for the relative uncommonness of botulism as to suppose 
it due to the rarity of the specific bacillus. In the 
Belgian outbreak studied by Van Ermengem the poison- 
ous ham had lain at the bottom of a cask of brine 
(anaerobic conditions) while the other ham of the 
same animal lay on top of it but was not covered with 
brine, and was eaten without producing any poisonous 
effect. In this instance the presence or absence of 
favorable conditions for anaerobic growth seemed to 
be the decisive factor. 

Prevention and treatment. ^Th^ food in which B. 
hotulinus has grown does not seem to be altered in a way 

^ B. botulinus does not develop in media containing over 6 per cent 
of salt and should not be able to grow in meat properly covered in brine 
made with lo per cent of salt (Romer, Centralbl.f. Bakt., XXVII [1900], 
857). 



POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 95 

that necessarily arouses suspicion. In the case de- 
scribed by Romer the incriminated ham showed bluish- 
gray areas from which B. botulinus could be isolated, 
but this condition does not seem to have attracted 
attention before the poisoning occurred and was an 
observation made only after the event. So far as can 
be learned the meat that has caused botulism has 
always come from perfectly sound animals. In some 
cases the accused article of food is said to have had a 
rancid or acrid taste (due to butyric acid ?) , but there 
is nothing definitely characteristic about this, as the 
majority of anaerobes produce butyric acid. If, as in 
the Darmstadt^ and Stanford University^ epidemics, the 
food (canned beans) is served with salad dressing, a sour 
taste might pass without notice or even add to the 
relish. In the instance reported by Sheppard the 
canned beans were good in appearance, taste, and smell. 
The obvious precaution to take against poisoning of 
this sort is first the use of adequate methods of food 
preservation. To judge from the recorded outbreaks, 
'domestically prepared vegetables and meats are more 
likely to give rise to botulism than those prepared 
commercially on a large scale. The general use of steam 
under pressure in the large canning factories affords a 
high degree of protection against the anaerobic bacteria 
and their resistant spores. Whatever the method of 
treatment, all canned or preserved food having an 
unnatural appearance, taste, or odor should be rejected. 
Reheating of all prepared foods immediately before 
use is an additional safeguard. Foods, such as salads, 

^ G. Landmann, Hyg. Rundschau, XIV (1904), 449. 

" Wilbur and Ophuls, Arch, of Int. Med., XIV (1914), 589. 



96 FOOD POISONING 

composed wholly or in part of uncooked materials 
should not be allowed to stand overnight before being 
served. 

If symptoms of botulism, such as visual disturbances, 
become manifest, the stomach should be emptied with 
a stomach pump, cathartics administered, and strych- 
nine and other stimulants given as required. Since one 
of the noteworthy features of this disease is the paralysis 
of the intestinal tract by the toxin absorbed, the guilty 
food may lie for a long time in the stomach (cf. Stiles, 
loc. cit). Consequently, measures to empty the stom- 
ach should be taken even if the patient does not come 
under observation until several days after the poisonous 
food has been eaten. 

An antitoxic serum has been prepared at the Koch 
Institute in Berlin. This serum has given successful 
results in animal experimentation, but has not been 
used, so far as I can learn, in any human outbreak. It 
is not available at any point in this country. 

OTHER BACTERIAL POISONS 

The interesting case reported by Barber^ shows that 
there are other possibilities of food poisoning by formed 
bacterial poisons. Acute attacks of gastro-enteritis 
were produced in several individuals by the use of milk 
containing a poisonous substance elaborated by a white 
staphylococcus. This staphylococcus occurred in almost 
pure culture in the udder of the cow from which the 
milk was derived. The milk when used fresh was harm- 
less and the poison was generated in effective quantities 
only when the milk stood some hours at room tempera- 

^ Phil. Jour, of Science, IX (1914), B6, p. 515. 



POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 97 

ture before being used. The symptoms were similar 
to those usually ascribed to ''ptomain poisoning." 

SPOILED AND DECOMPOSED FOOD 

There is a general belief that food is unwholesome 
whenever the evidence of the senses shows it to be 
more or less decomposed. This opinion finds expres- 
sion in civiKzed countries in many legal enactments 
forbidding traffic in decomposed meats, vegetables, and 
fruits. There is unfortunately lack of evidence as to 
what kinds or degree of visible decomposition are most 
dangerous. In fact, some foods of high nutrient value, 
notably cheeses, are eaten only after somewhat extensive 
decomposition processes (termed ripening) have taken 
place. The characteristic flavors or aromas of the vari- 
ous hard and soft cheeses are due to the substances 
formed by certain species of molds and bacteria and are 
just as properly to be regarded as decomposition products 
as the unpleasant stenches generated by decomposing 
eggs or meat. Indeed, some of the decomposition prod- 
ucts formed in the ripening of Brie, Camembert, or Lim- 
burger are similar to, if not identical with, those which 
are associated with spoiled foods. Sour milk, again, is 
recommended and commonly used as a food or beverage 
for persons in delicate health, and yet sour milk contains 
many millions of bacteria and their decomposition 
products. Some of the bacteria commonly concerned 
in the natural souring of milk are closely related to 
pathogenic types. The partial decomposition of meats 
and game birds is often considered to be advantageous 
rather than otherwise. Even eggs, a food whose 
'^ freshness" is marred for most persons by the initial 



98 FOOD POISONING 

stages of decomposition, are ripened in various ways 
by the Chinese and eaten as a deHcacy after the lapse 
of months or years. The preserved ducks' eggs known 
as pidan are stored for months in a pasty mixture of 
tea, hme, salt, and wood ashes. "They are very dif- 
ferent from fresh eggs. The somewhat darkened shell 
has numerous dark green dots on the inner membrane. 
Both the white and yolk are coagulated; the white is 

brown, more or less like coffee jelly "^ Increase 

of ammoniacal nitrogen has taken place to an extraor- 
dinary degree in these eggs, indicating much decompo- 
sition of the egg protein. The ammoniacal nitrogen 
in pidan is considerably higher than in the eggs known 
by egg candlers as black rots. 

It is evident, therefore, that bacterial growth in 
substances used as food is not necessarily injurious and 
may in some cases increase the palatability of food 
without destroying its wholesomeness. Little or nothing 
is known about the correlation of visible signs of decom- 
position with the presence of poisonous products, and 
it is at present impossible to say at what point in the 
process of decomposition a food becomes unfit to use 
owing to the accumulation of poisonous substances 
within it. There seems to be no connection between 
the natural repugnance to the use of a food and its 
unwholesomeness. Under ordinary conditions the nau- 
seous character of very stale eggs is proverbial, and 
yet few nitrogenous foods have so clear a health record 
as eggs or have been so infrequently connected with 
food poisoning outbreaks. 

^ K. Blunt and C. C. Wang, Jour. Biol. Chejii., XXVIII (19 16), 125. 



POISONOUS PRODUCTS FORMED IN FOOD 99 

It might seem tempting to conclude on the basis of 
the available evidence that spoiled or decomposed foods 
possess poisonous qualities only when certain specific 
bacteria, like the B. hotulinus already discussed, have 
accidentally invaded them and formed definite and 
specific poisons. But we have no right to assume that 
the everyday decomposition products of the banal 
bacteria are in all cases without injurious effects. Even 
though no sharply defined acute form of poisoning may 
be laid at their door, it does not follow that an 
irritating or perhaps slightly toxic action of the ordinary 
decomposition products is altogether absent. Our pres- 
ent knowledge of the nature and degree of danger to be 
apprehended from the use of spoiled food is imperfect 
and unsatisfactory. That fact, however, does not release 
us from the obligation to continue measures of protec- 
tion based even to a limited extent on experience. 



CHAPTER IX 
POISONING OF OBSCURE OR UNKNOWN NATURE 

While many and diverse causes of food poisoning 
have been discussed in the foregoing pages, there remain 
certain affections definitely connected with food that 
are still of obscure or doubtful causation. 

MILKSICKNESS OR TREMBLES 

This disease, common to man and some of the higher 
animals, is characterized by a definite symptom-complex, 
the salient features being excessive vomiting and 
obstinate constipation accompanied usually by a sub- 
normal temperature. Many cases result fatally. At 
the present time it is known to occur only rarely in some 
of the southern and central western states in this country, 
but during the period of pioneer settlement it was quite 
common in districts that are now seldom affected. A 
great many references to milksickness are found in the 
writings of the early travelers and physicians in the 
Middle West, one observer predicting that '^some of 
the fairest portions of the West in consequence of the 
prevalence of this loathsome disease must ever remain 
an uninhabitable waste unless the cause and remedy 
can be discovered." In certain regions it is estimated 
that "nearly one-fourth of the pioneers and early settlers 
died of this disease." The mother of Abraham Lincoln 
fell a victim to this malady in 1818 in southern Indiana. 

The disease appears to be usually contracted in the 
first instance by grazing cattle or sheep that have access 



POISONING OF UNKNOWN NATURE lOi 

to particular tracts of land; " milksickness " pastures 
are, as a rule, well known locally for their danger- 
ous qualities. Milksickness is communicated to man 
through the medium of raw milk or butter and possibly 
of meat. Although some of the earHer observers make 
the statement that the disease is self-propagating and 
can be passed on without limit from one animal to 
another, later experiments cast doubt on this view.^ 

Many different theories have been advanced to 
account for the origin of the disease. The belief that 
mineral poisons such as arsenic or copper might be 
taken up by grazing animals and eHminated in the milk 
finds no justification either in analytical or in clinical 
data. Many plants, known or suspected to be poison- 
ous, have been accused of furnishing the substance that 
imparts the poisonous quality to the milk of animals 
suffering from trembles, but there is no agreement as to 
the responsible species. Feeding experiments with sus- 
pected plants have in no case given unambiguous results. 
While some facts have been supposed to indicate that 
living micro-organisms are the cause of milksickness, 
other facts are opposed to this view, and the most recent 
experiments in this direction did not lead to conclusive 
results.'' The true cause of milksickness is at present 
quite unknown. 

DEFICIENCY DISEASES 

Although diseased conditions due to the absence 
rather than the presence of certain constituents in the 
food are not perhaps to be properly classed as food 

' Jordan and Harris, Jour. Infect. Dis., VI (1909), 401. 
^Ibid. 



I02 FOOD POISONING 

poisoning, they may be mentioned here to illustrate 
the complexity of the food problem. At least one 
disease — ^pellagra— is attributed by some observers to 
the presence of an injurious substance or micro-organism 
in the food, and by others to the absence of certain 
ingredients necessary to the proper maintenance of life. 
Beriberi. — One of the best established instances of a 
disease due to a one-sided or defective diet is beriberi. 
This affection is prevalent among those peoples subsist- 
ing chiefly or wholly on a diet of rice prepared in a certain 
way. As a matter of trade convention milled white 
rice has long been considered superior to the unpolished 
grain. The process of polishing rice by machinery 
removes the red husk or pericarp of the grain, and a 
diet based almost exclusively on polished rice causes 
this well-marked disease — beriberi — which was for long 
regarded as of an infectious nature.^ It has been 
shown that if the husks are restored to the polished 
grain and the mixture used as food the disease fails to 
develop. Experiments upon chickens and pigeons show 
that an exclusive diet of white rice causes in these 
animals a disease (polyneuritis of fowls) similar to 
beriberi, which likewise can be arrested or prevented 
by a change in diet. From such observa,tions the con- 
clusion has been drawn that in the pericarp of the rice 
grain there are certain substances essential to the 
maintenance of health and that their withdrawal from 
the diet leads to nutritional disturbances. The name 
"vitamin" has been given to these substances, but little 
is known about their chemical or physiological nature. 
In a varied diet vitamins are presumably present in a 

^ E. B. Vedder, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXVII (1916), 1494. 



POISONING OF UNKNOWN NATURE 103 

variety of foodstuffs, but if the diet is greatly restricted, 
some apparently trivial treatment of the food may 
result in their elimination. It is uncertain how many 
and how various the substances are that have been 
classed by some writers under the designation vitamin. 
At least two ^'determinants" are thought to be con- 
cerned in the nutrition of growth, a fat-soluble and a 
water-soluble substance.^ 

Pellagra is one of the diseases attributed to an 
unbalanced diet,'' and it has been suggested that the 
increased use of highly milled maize and wheat flour 
from which vitamins are absent may be responsible 
for the extension of this malady in recent years. Other 
observers, while admitting that a faulty diet may 
predispose to pellagra as to tuberculosis and other 
diseases, do not assent to the view that it is the primary 
factor.^ 

Lathyrism. — The name lathyrism has been given 
to a disease supposed to be connected with the use of 
the pulse and the chick pea. Nervous symptoms are 
conspicuous and sometimes severe, although the affec- 
tion is of a milder type than pellagra. The disease is 
said to be associated with the exclusive or almost 
exclusive use of leguminous food and with generally 
miserable conditions of living. It is yet uncertain 
whether lathyrism is a deficiency disease like beriberi 
and possibly pellagra, or whether it is due to a mixture 
of foreign and poisonous seeds with the particular 

^ McCoUum and Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., XXIII (1915), 181. 
" Goldberger, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXVI (1916), 471. 
3MacNeal, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, LXVI (1916), 975; Jobling, 
Jour. Infect. Dis., XVIII (1916), 501. 



I04 FOOD POISONING 

legumes consumed, or whether under certain conditions 
the legumes themselves may contain poisonous sub- 
stances generated by some unknown fungus growths. 

Favism (from fava, ''bean") is an acute febrile 
anemia with jaundice and hemoglobinuria which occurs 
in Italy and has been attributed to the use of beans as 
food or even to smelling the blossom of the bean plant.' 
A marked individual predisposition to the malady is 
said to exist. Although the symptoms are very severe 
and seem to point to an acute poisoning, no toxic 
substance has been isolated from the implicated beans. 
It has been suggested by some that bacterial infection, 
and by others that a fungous growth on the bean, is 
responsible, but no evidence has been brought forward 
to support either assumption. 

Scurvy in some forms is undoubtedly connected with 
the lack of certain necessary components of a normal 
diet. The development of scurvy on shipboard in the 
absence of fresh milk, fresh vegetables, fruit juice, and 
the like is a fact long familiar. Guinea-pigs fed on 
milk, raw and heated, and on milk and grain have 
developed typical symptoms of scurvy.^ On the other 
hand, a form of experimental scurvy has been produced 
in guinea-pigs and rabbits kept on an ordinary diet of 
green vegetables, hay, and oats by the intravenous 
injection of certain streptococci.^ The relative share of 
diet and infection in the production of human scurvy is 
consequently regarded by some investigators as uncertain. 

^ Gasbarrini, PoUdinico, November 14, 1915; abstract, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assoc, LXV (1915), 2264. 

2 Hoist and Frolich, Jour. Hyg., VII (1907), 619; Moore and Jack- 
son, Jour. Amcr. Med. Assoc, LXVII (1916), 1931. 

3 Jackson and Moody, Jour. Lnfect. Dis., XIX (1916), 511. 



POISONING OF UNKNOWN NATURE 105 

Rachitis or rickets is a pathological condition in some 
way connected with a protracted disturbance of digestion 
which in turn leads to faulty calcium metabolism. It 
does not seem probable that rickets is caused by too 
little calcium in the food, but rather by the inability of 
the bone tissue to utilize the calcium brought to it in 
the body fluids. Experiments upon the causation of the 
disease have not given uniform results, and it does not 
seem possible at present to place responsibility for this 
condition upon any particular form of diet, such as 
deficiency of fat or excess of carbohydrates or protein. 
It appears to be true that the prolonged use of any food 
leading to nutritional disturbance causes an inability 
on the part of the bone cells to take up calcium salts 
in the normal manner. 

While there are many obscure points with regard 
to the origin of both scurvy and rickets, there is no 
doubt that some dietary shortcoming lies at their base, 
and that they can be cured or altogether avoided by 
maintenance of suitable nutritional conditions. 

THE FOODS MOST COMMONLY POISONOUS 

Certain articles of food figure with special frequency 
in the reports of food poisoning outbreaks. It is not 
clear in all cases why this special liability to inflict 
injury exists. For an example, vanilla ice-cream and 
vanilla puddings have been so often implicated that 
some investigators have not hesitated to ascribe a 
poisonous quality to the vanilla itself. But there is no 
good evidence that this is the case, and it has been 
suggested that the reducing action of the vanilla favors 
the growth of anaerobic bacteria which produce poison- 
ous substances, an explanation highly conjectural. 



io6 FOOD POISONING 

The conspicuous frequency with which the consump- 
tion of raw meat provokes food poisoning has already 
been set forth and in large part explained by the occa- 
sional derivation of meat from animals infected with 
parasites harmful to man. The even greater culpability 
of raw milk is due to the fact that milk is not only, like 
meat, sometimes obtained from an infected animal, but 
that it is a particularly good culture medium for bacteria, 
and in the process of collection or distribution may 
become infected through the agency of a human carrier. 
Foods such as ice-cream that are prepared with milk 
are also often connected with food poisoning. It seems 
probable that illness caused by ice-cream is much more 
commonly due to bacterial infection than to poisoning 
with metals or flavoring extracts. The responsibility 
of these latter substances is entirely problematic. 

Cases of cheese poisoning, which apparently are 
relatively numerous, are of quite obscure causation. 
Whether such poisoning is due more commonly to some 
original contamination of the milk, or to an invasion of 
the cheese by pathogenic bacteria in the course of prepa- 
ration, or to the formation of toxic substances by bacteria 
or molds during the process of ripening which the cheese 
undergoes, is left uncertain in the majority of cases. 

Shellfish poisoning from eating oysters, mussels, 
or clams is unquestionably caused in some instances by 
sewage contamination of the water from which the 
bivalves are taken, and in such cases bacilK of the 
typhoid or paratyphoid groups are commonly con- 
cerned. It is a disputed question whether certain 
recorded outbreaks of mussel poisoning have been due 
to bacterial infection or whether sometimes healthy or 



POISONING OF UNKNOWN NATURE 107 

diseased mussels taken from unpolluted water contain a 
poisonous substance. In a similar way it is uncertain 
whether a certain marine snail (Murex bradatus), some- 
times used for food, contains under certain conditions a 
substance naturally poisonous for man, or whether it is 
poisonous only when it is infected or when toxigenic 
bacteria have grown in it. 

Potato poisoning has been attributed in some cases 
to bacterial decomposition of potatoes by proteus bacilli; 
in other cases, to a poisonous alkaloid, solanin, said to be 
present in excessive amounts in diseased and in sprouting 
potatoes. It is noteworthy that many instances of 
potato poisoning have been connected with the use of 
potato salad which had stood for some time after being 
mixed, so that the possibility of infection with the 
paratyphoid bacillus or other pathogenic organisms 
cannot be excluded. That solanin is ever really respon- 
sible for potato poisoning is considered doubtful by 
many investigators. 

These examples are sufficient to show that in a con- 
siderable proportion of cases of alleged food poisoning 
there is a large measure of uncertainty about the real 
source of trouble. Although the trend of opinion has 
been in the direction of an increased recognition of 
the share of certain bacteria, especially those of the 
paratyphoid group, there is an important residue of 
unexplained food poisoning that needs further skilled 
investigation. It is one of the objects of this book to 
point out this need and to draw attention to the numer- 
ous problems that await settlement. The first step is 
the regular and thorough investigation of every food 
poisoning outbreak. 



INDEX 



Acid pickles, S3 

Adulteration, food, 41 

Agglutination, 60, 64, 70 

Alkaloid, 107 

Allergy, food, 6 

Almonds, 11 

Amanita: aurantiaca, 20; caesaria, 
18, 20; muscaria, 18, 19, 20, 
22; phalloides, 21, 22, 23; 
verna, 22 

''Amanita toxin," 22, 24 

Anaphylaxis, 9, 10, 11 

Aniline dyes, 32 

Animal parasites, 79 

Animals, 13, 14, 24, 44, 50, 67, 68, 

70, 71, 72, 78, 93, 95, 100, 106; 

emergency-slaughtered, 59, 62, 

63, 65, 72 
Ankylostomiasis, 83 
Annatto, 32 
"Anti-anaphylaxis," 11 
Antimony, 27 

Antiseptic chemicals, S3, 4© 
Antitoxin, 24; diphtheria, 9 
Appendicitis, i 
Arsenic, 26, loi 
Arteries, 3 
Artichokes, 16 
Ascaris, 84 
Asiatic cholera, 50 
Asparagus, 30, 31 
Asthma, 10, 12 
Atropin, 20 



B 



Bacillus: botulinus, g2-g6; coli,$6; 
Danysz, 75; diphtheriae, 69; en- 
teritidis, 58, 59, 60, 63, 64, 65, 66, 
67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 74; enteri- 
tidis-suipestifer, 70, 72; paraty- 
phoid-enter itidis, 68, 69, 85; 
paratyphosus, 58, 66; paraty- 
phosus B, 60, 65, 66, 73, 74; pro- 
i^^^s, 55, 56, 57, 107; suipestifer, 
65, 66, 67, 68, 71, 72, 73, 74; 
tetanus, 69; tubercle, 44, 51, 
52, 53; typhoid, 44-47, 64, 
106 

Bacteria: food-borne, 44, 58; 
pathogenic, 44, 58 

Bacterial products, 85 

Balloon-fish, 24 

Barbel, 25 

Beans, 14, 31, 46, 86, S8, 95, 104 

Beef stew, 59 

Beer, 26, 27 

Benzoate of soda, 34 

Benzoic acid, 34, 35, 36 

Beriberi, 102 

Berries, 29, 35 

Birds, game, 97 

Biscuits, soda, 36 

Blood vessels, 2, 39 

Borax, ^7 

Boric acid, 37, 38, 40 

Botuhsm: 86; anatomical lesions, 
91; bacteriology, 92; cases, 87; 
epidemiology, 93; prevention 
and treatment, 94; symptoms, 



109 



no 



FOOD POISONING 



Bread, 47, 48 
Butter, 16, 32, 40, loi 
Butyric acid, 95 



Caffeine, 36, 41 

Cakes, 76 

"Calf diarrhea," 72 

Candies, 27, 28, 32, 41 

Canned foods, 4, 5, 7, 8, 29, 30, 95 

Canning, 2,2, , 93 

Cap, metallic, 28 

Cardamom, oil of, 16 

Carriers, 55; paratyphoid, 61, 62, 
66, 67, 70, 73, 78; typhoid, 45, 
48, 50, 66 

Cases of: botulism, 87, listed by 
Mayer, 88, in U.S., 88-91; dys- 
entery, 84; food sensitization, 
10, II, 12; milksickness, 100; 
mushroom poisoning, 20, 21, 22; 
plant poisoning, 14; poisoning 
from asparagus, 30; trichiniasis, 
80, 81; tuberculosis, 53 

Cat, 83 

Cathartics, 96 

Cattle, 10, 51, 53, 54, 55, 62, 63, 71, 
72, 74, 82, 86, 96, 100 

Celery, 45, 46, 47 

Cereals, 12, 62 

Cestode infection, 82 

Cheese, 5, 7, 28, 97, 106 

Chemicals, antiseptic, 33, 40 

Chicken, 71, 88 

Chick pea, 103 

Chicory, 41 

Chocolate, 28 

Cholera microbe, 51 

Chopped beef, 59 

Cicuta maculata, 14, 16, 17 

Cinnamon, 37 

Clams, 50, 106 



Claviceps: pas Pali, 86; pur pur ea, 
85,87 

Codfish, 67 

Coffee, 36, 41 

Coffee-tree, 14 

Coloring, artificial, 40 

Coloring substances, 31 

Conium maculatum, 15 

"Contact infection," 62, 67 

Cook, 44, 45, 50, 73, 74 

Copper, 30, loi 

Copper: acetate, 31; salts, 31; sul- 
phate, 31, 32 

Cranberries, 35 

Creosote, 34 

Cysticercus cellulosae, 82, 83 

D 

Daffodil bulbs, 14 

Danysz bacillus, 75 

Death Camas, 14 

Death-cup, 21, 23 

Death-rates, 2, 3, 4, 39 

Delphinium, 14 

Diarrhea, 84 

Diet, defective, 102, 103, 104, 105 

Diphtheria, 54 

Diseases: deficiency, loi; degen- 
erative, 2; milk-borne, 54; skin, 
12 

Dog, 25, %7, 

Drying, 2,2>, 40 

Dyes, aniline, 32 

Dysentery, 84 

E 

Echinococcus , 83 
Eczema, 10, 12 
Eelworm, 84 

Eggs, 6, 10, II, 12, 97, 98 
Egg-white, 9, 10, II, 12 



INDEX 



III 



Epidemics. See Outbreaks 
Ergot, 85 
Ergotism, 85-86 
"Expectation of life," 2 
Extracts, flavoring, 106 



Favism, 104 

Fish, 5, 24, 25,34,62,67, 71, 83 

Flies, 47 

Flour, 32, 43, 103 

*'Fly Amanita,'" 18, 19, 21 

Fly poison, 18 

Food: adulteration, 41; allergy, 
6; coloration, 32; intoxication, 
18, 57, 92; preservatives, :^y, 
substitutes, 16, 41 

Foods: canned, 4, 5, 7, 8, 29, 30, 
95; cooked, 47, 51, 52, 53, 54, 
60,63,69,70,78,81,94; decom- 
posed, 39, 97; most commonly 
poisonous, 105; protein, sensiti- 
zation to, 9; smoked, 34, 39; 
spoiled, 39, 97; uncooked, 7, 46, 
47, 48, 55, 63, 69, 70, 79, 84, 
94, 96 

Foot-and-mouth disease, 55 

Formaldehyde, 36, 40 

Fowl, 5 

Fruits, 5, 10, 29, 30, 35, 47, 50, 62, 
97, 104 

"Fruit ethers," 42 

Fruit syrups, 42 

Fugu, 25 

Fungus, 85 



Gallstones, i 
Game birds, 97 

Gastro-enteritis, 56, 60, 74, 96 
Giardia (Lamblia) inlestinalis , 84 
Globe-fish, 24 
Glucose, 27, 41 
Goose, 71; liver, 78 



Grain, 85, 104 
Grass, wild, 86 
Gymnocladus diolca, 14 

H 

Hackdeisch, 59 

Ham, 86, 92, 94, 95 

Hamburger steak, 59, 78 

Hay, 104 

Hay fever, 9 

Heart, 3, 22 

Heating, 40 

Hellebore, 14 

Hemlock: 13, 15; poison, 16; 

water, 14, 16, 17 
Hippuric acid, 35, 36 
Hog cholera, 66, 71 
Honey-locust, 14 
Hookworm infection, 83 
Horse, 71, 86 
Horseradish, 16 
Hydatid disease, 83 
Hydrocarpiis, 16 
Hymenolepis nana, 82 



I 

Ice, 75 

Ice cream, 5, 7, 32, 105, 106 

Infection: accidental, 72; Asiatic 
cholera, 50; Bacillus prole us {}), 
55; bacterial poisons, 86, 96; 
carrier, 44, 45, 48, 50, 55, 61, 62, 
66, 67, 70, 73, 78; cestode, 82; 
Giardia {Lamblia) inlestinalis, 
84; hookworm, 83; laboratory, 
72; milk-borne, 54; parasitic, 
79; paratyphoid, 58; scurvy, 
104; secondary bacterial, 80; 
soil, 46; tapeworm, 82; tubercu- 
lous meat, 51, tuberculous milk, 
53 j typhoid food, 44 

Intoxication, food, 18, 57, 92 

Iron pyrites, 26 



112 



FOOD POISONING 



Jams, 27 

Japanese Fugu, 25 
Jars, preserve, 28 
Jelly, 32, 50 



K aim la latijolia, 14 
Kidneys, 2, 3, 22, 24, 39 
Kittens, 84 



Larkspur, 14 

Lathyrism, 103 

Laurel, 14 

Lead, 27 

Lead: chromate, 28; foil, 28; 

pipes, 28; salts, 29 
Legumes, 104 
Lettuce, 45, 50 
Liver, 22, 24; goose, 78 
Loco-weed, 14 
Lupines, 14 

M 

Maize, 103 

Maratti-oil, 16 

Margarin, 16 

Marsh-marigold, 14 

Mary Malloy, 45 

''Measly pork," 83 

Meat, 5, 7, 24, 2>?>, 37, 40, 44, 51, 

52, 53, 57, 58, 59, 62, 63, 64, 65, 
68,69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 
79, 83, 95, 97, loi, 106; jellies, 
69; pies, 69, 73; puddings, 69 

Meat inspection, 77,81 

Metals, 5, 106 

Mice, 56, 74, 75, 78, 84 

Milk, 5, 6, 7, 10, II, 40, 48, 50, 51, 

53, 54, 55, ^2, 69, 70, 72, 73, 76, 
77, 96, 97, loi, 104, 106 



Milksickness, loo-ioi 
Molasses, 30 
Murex hradatus, 107 
Muscarin, 22 
Mushrooms, 5, 13, 18-24 
Mussels, 50, 106 
"Mutations," 68 

N 

Neuritis, 26 
"Neurotoxin," 24 
Nipples, rubber, 27 
Nissl granules, 91 
Nitrogen peroxide, 32 



O 

Oatmeal, 11 

Oats, 104 

Oil of cardamom, 16; of cloves, 37 

Olive stones, 41 

Outbreaks due to: beans, Darm- 
stadt, 95, Stanford University, 
95; beef, Breslau, 58; beef 
stew. Limerick, 59; beer, Eng- 
land, 26; bread, Elgin, 48; cod- 
fish, 67; diseased animals, 71; 
ergot, Limoges, 85; gastro- 
enteritis carrier, 74; group and 
family in U.S., 4, 5; ham, Elle- 
zelles, 92; human contamina- 
tion, 73; list of, by: Hirsch, 85, 
Hiibener, 58, Mayer, 65, Savage, 
58; margarin, Hamburg, 16; 
meat, 65, 69; P'rankenhausen, 
63, Ghent, 77; meat pies, 
Wareham, 73; milk, 96; Kristi- 
ania, 73, Newcastle, 69; miscel- 
laneous contaminations, 74; 
mushrooms, New York City, 18; 
oysters, 48; paratyphoid car- 
rier, 73; pie, Westerly, 60; 
potato salad, 65 ; public markets. 
South Philadelphia, 46; rat 
virus, 75; sausage, 65; Hanover, 
56, Wiirttemberg, 86; "sour 



INDEX 



113 



grass soup," New York City, 18; 
spaghetti, Hanford, 44; typhoid 
carrier. New York City, 45; 
Vanille Pudding, 6$; vermicelli, 
67; watercress, Philadelphia, 
46; water hemlock. New Jersey, 
16 

Oxalic acid, 18 

Oxyuria, 84 

Oysters, 5, 24, 48, 49, 50, 71, 106 



Palmolin, 16 

Paneolus papilionaceus, 21 

" Paragaertner " forms, 68 

Parasites, 79, 84 

Parat)^hoid fever, 58-78; carriers, 
61, 62, 66, 67, 70, 73, 78; 
diseased animals, 67, 71; gastro- 
intestinal, 61; general char- 
acters of , 6 1 ; human contamina- 
tion, 73; means of prevention, 
77; miscellaneous contamina- 
tions, 74; sources of infection, 
71; symptoms, 61; toxin pro- 
duction, 68; typhoid-like, 61; 
typical outbreaks, 58 

Parrots, 72 

Parsnips, 16 

Pasteurization, 48, 54 

Pastry, 47 

Pate de foie gras, 78 

Peas, 31, 43, 46 

Pellagra, 102, 103 

Pepper, 41 

Pericarp of rice, 102 

Peripheral neuritis, 26 

Pickling, 93 

Pidan, 98 

Pie, 60 

Pigs, 71 

Pike, 25 

Pinworm, 84 

Plant oils, 16 



Plants, 9, 13-24, 25, loi 

Poisons: bacterial, 96; chemical, 
26; mineral, 26; organic, 26; 
protoplasmic, ^s 

Poisoning by: aniline dyes, 32; 
animals, 24; antimony, 27; 
arsenic, 26; Asiatic cholera in- 
fection, 50; Bacillus proteus{7) 
infection, 55; botulism intoxi- 
cation, 86; coloring substances, 
31; copper, 30; defective diet: 
beriberi, 102, favism, 104, 
lathyrism, 103, pellagra, 103, 
rickets, 105, scurvy, 104; egg- 
white, 9; ergot, 85; fish, 25; 
food preservatives, 33; food 
substitutes, 41; lead, 27; milk- 
borne infections: diphtheria, 
54, foot-and-mouth disease, 55; 
milksickness, 100; scarlet fever, 
54, and septic sore throat, 55; 
mushrooms, 18; parasites, ani- 
mal: teniasis, 82, trichiniasis, 
79, other, 84; paratyphoid in- 
fection, 58; plants, 13; shell- 
fish, 24; tin, 29; tuberculosis 
infection, 51; typhoid infection, 
44 

Poisoning, food: articles of food 
most commonly connected with, 
7; effects of, 2; extent of, 3; 
frequency of, i; kinds of, 6; 
means of prevention, 2; ob- 
scure, 100; outbreaks of, in 
United States, 3, 4, 5; reports 
of, 3, 4, 8; scope of book, 6; 
seasonal incidence of, 5; un- 
known, 100 

Poison-ivy, 14 

"Poison squads," 34 

Pollen, 9 

Polyneuritis of fowls, 102 

Pork, 79 

Pork and beans, 88 

Potatoes, 46, 107 

Potato salad, 65 

Preservatives : chemical, 2>2, ', food, 
^y, household, 37 

Proteins, 9, 11, 12, 62, 69, 80 



114 



FOOD POISONING 



Protochlorideof tin, 30 
"Ptomain poisoning," i, 3, 18, 68, 

97 
Puffers, 24 
Pulse, 103 
Pyrites, iron, 26 



Quinine, 33 



R 



Rabbit, 71 

Rachitis, 105 

Radishes, 45 

Rash, 10, 12 

Rats, 56, 74, 75, 78, 81, 82 

*' Rat virus," 75 

Refrigeration, 33, 40 

Rice, 43, 102 

Ricin, 14 

Rickets, 105 

Ripening, 97 

Roundworm, 79 

"Royal Amanita," 18 

Rye, 8s 

S 

Saccharin, 41 

Salad, 5, 95, 107; dressing, 95 

SalicyKc acid, 36 

Salt, 33, 41, 94 

Salt solution, 33, 40 

Salting, 33 

Saltpeter brines, 33 

Sandwiches, 46 

Saponin, 42 

Sausage, 5, 7, 40, 56, 65, 69, 75, 78, 

79, 86, 88 
Scarlet fever, 54 
Scurvy, 55, ^o4 
Sensitization, food, 6, 9 
" Septic]_sore throat," 55 



Serum, antitoxic, 96; blood, 11, 
64, 65, 70; therapeutic, 9 

Shark, 25 

Sheep, 71, 100 

Shellfish, 10, 24, 106 

Shrimp, 71 

Smoking, 33, 93, 94 

Snail, 107 

*'Soda water," 42 

Sodic carbonate, 36 

Sodium benzoate, 34 

Sodium fluoride, 40 

"Soft drinks," 28, 42 

Soil, infected, 46, 47 

Solanin, 107 

Solder, 28 

Sorrel, 18 

"Sour grass soup," 18 

Sour milk, 97 

Spaghetti, 44 

Spices, 37 

Staphylococcus, 96 

Stoppers, patent metal, 28 

Strawberries, 10 

"Streptococcus sore throat," 55 

Strongyloides , 84 

Strychnine, 33, 96 

Sturgeon, 25 

Substances, coloring, 31 

Substitutes, food, 16, 41 

Sugar, 26, 28, 41, 42 

Sugar solution, t,2>j 4° 

Sulphite, 36, 40 

Sulphurous acid, 26, 27, 36 

Swine, 74, 80, 81, 82, 93 

Symptoms: cholera-like, 25, 77; 
circulatory, 10; coma, 22; con- 
stipation, 89, 90, 100; convul- 
sions, 20, 22, 25; coryza, 10; 
diarrhea, 10, 21, 61, 90; diffi- 
culty in swallowing, 20; digest- 
ive, I, 61, 105; dizziness, 20, 
90; eyelids, edematous, 10; 



INDEX 



115 



febrile anemia, 104; fever, 61, 
79; gastro-intestinal, i, 10, 58, 
61, 90; hemoglobinuria, 104; 
jaundice, 104; mental, 24; 
nausea, 10, 12, 88; nervous, 10, 
24, 90, 103; pain: abdominal, 
21, 61, 89, muscular, 79, 80; 
paralysis, 25, 96; rapidity of 
appearance of, 10, 44, 58, 61, 91; 
rash, 10, 12; sneezing, 10; 
temperature, subnormal, 89, 
100; thirst, 21, 89; trismus, 20; 
visual, 20, 88, 89, 90, 91, 96; 
vomiting, 10, 12, 21, 88, 90, 100 
Syrups, 27, 42 



Trichiniasis, 79 

Trichinosis, 79 

Tuberculin, 9 

Tuberculosis, 44, 51 

Typhoid fever: 44-50, 78, 79; car- 
riers, 45,48, 50, 66; milk-borne, 
48 

U 

Uncinariasis, S;^ 

Urticaria, 10 

Utensils, cooking, 27, 28, 30 



Tapeworm, 82, 83 

Tea, 36 

Tenia saginata, 82 

Teniasis, 82 

Tenia solium, 82 

Tetrodontidae, 24 

Theobromine, 36 

Tin, 29-30 

Tin salts, 30 

"Toadstools," 18 

Tomatoes, 12 

Toxin, 68 

Trembles, 100 

Trichina, 79 

Trichinella spiralis, 79, 80 



Vanilla: 105; ice cream, 105; 
pudding, 65, 105 

Vegetables, 5, 29, 30, 31, 45, 46, 47, 

62, 83, 95, 97, 104 
Veratrum viride, 14 
"Verdigris poisoning," 31 
Vermicelli, 67 
"Vitamin," 102, 103 



W 



Water, 28, 50, 75 
Watercress, 45, 46 
Wintergreen, 14 



Zygadenus, 14 



r 



IT 



—5 



s 

H 



•■:oi 
-» Hi 



el 



University of Toronto 
library ^ 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




■ 



imm\ 








