TX 393 

c"y 1 LES PAUVRES 



antr 

Eecipes; 

jWabe Witif 

Corn iWeal 

Jf or 50 Cents! 



Good Work Remains. 

Bad Work Passes Into Oblivion 



Celesfttne €n^ti9i 

authorof 
Cooking in Old Creole Days 



©CU460940 



X313 



It is a whole education to know how to 
use corn meal properly, but with patience 
one is more than rewarded for one's perse- 
verance. 



MAY 24 1917 



Aunt Anne's Delicious Corn Bread. 

One cupful of v/hite corn meal, 1 cupful of boiled 
hominy; knead two eggs in the hominy, put in a 
piece of butter melted the size of a hickory nut, 
one pinch of salt, one good pinch of sugar; whip 
all thcit together, add corn meal and cold milk al-, 
ternately to a thick consistency until it drops off 
the spoon in a thick batter like a thick mush. 
Sometimes put in a pinch of yeast powder just 
as you are going to put it to bake. Mix it well, 
bake it and serve. Don't let it stand. 



Aunt Anne's Corn Bread Without Powder. 

Take a quart of corn meal, 1 quart of milk, 
tablespoonful of fresh butter. Let it stand until 
it cools off a little, then you add five well beaten 
eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Mix half quantity 
with 3 eggs if you wish a smaller corn bread. 



Sally Lunn — No. 1. 

Five eggs, IV^ pints of flour, full spoonful of 
butter, put the yolks in and two spoonsfuls of 
sugar, 1 glass of sour milk with teaspoonful of 
baking powder. 



Sally Liinn — No. 2. 

One quart of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar, 1 heaping tablespoonful of lard 
and butter mixed with one-third of a yeast cake, 
3 eggs well beaten. Make the dough with warm 
water in winter and with cold water in summer. 
It should be the consistency of light bread dough. 
Let it rise for four or five hours. Touch lightly 
and turn into a buttered cake mold and bake v,ith- 
out a second kneading. It will take nearly 40 min- 
utes to bake and should then soak well. 



Corn Meal Gems. 

Corn meal gems when well made are delicious 
and as light as thistle down. Cream a heaping 
tablespoonful of butter and half a cup of sugar. 
Beat up 1 eii!;g and add to the creamed butter and 
sugar. Dissolve a teaspoonful of soda in a pint 
of sour milk and add to the mixture. Add a cup 
of flour and two cups of cornmeal well sifted to- 
gether. Beat well and pour into greased muffin 
tins. Bake in a hot oven. 



Corn Dodgers. 

One quart of corn meal, a little salt and water 
enough to make the batter just stiff enough to 
make the mixture into cakes v/ith the hands. Bake 
on tin sheets. 



Corn Biscuits. 

Six tablespoonfuls of soft hominy, V2 a pint of 
corn meal, a large tablespoonful of lard, ^ a 
pint of milk and mix the ingredients well together 
and make into cakes about the size of a saucer. 
Put them upon a tin sheet and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



North Carolina Dabs. 

One pint of meal, 2 eggs, a small desert epoon- 
ful of lard, a wineglass of milk; scald the meal and 
while hot rub in the lard, beat the eggs very light 
and add them to the meal; stir in the milk and a 
little salt. Drop them ixture from a s poon upon 
a tin sheet and bake in a moderate oven. 



Corn Journey. 

Into 2 tablespoonfuls of cold hom.iny rub a table- 
spoonful of butter, an egg, half a pint of milk 
and corn flour enough to make the batter just as 
stiff as to be spread upon a board, about a quarter 
of an inch thick. Put the board before the fire, 
brown the cake and brown the other side in the 
same way. Salt to taste. 



Virginia Egg Bread. 

One quart of meal, half a pint of wheat flour, 
a pint and a half of milk, 2 eggs and a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, mix all well and bake either in cups 
or a tin pan. 



Hominy Bread. 

Take a pint of hominy boiled soft, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, a pint of milk and 4 eggs, 
thicken with flour and bake in a dish. 



Hoe Cake. 

Three spoonfuls of hominy, 2 of rice flour, a 
little butter and milk sufficient to make it soft. 
Bake on a ^riddle or on a hoe. 



Hominy Fritters. 

Beat up three eggs with a large spoonful of 
butter, add to these 3 spoonsful of cold hominy, 
a pint of milk and a pint of wheat flour. Mix 
all together and let it rise three hours. 



Corn Spoon Bread. 

One pint of corn flour, boil half to a mush, add 
when nearly cold 2 eggs, a tablespoonful of but- 
ter and a gill of milk and then the remaining half 
of flour. Bake on a griddle or grease a pan and 
drop in spoonsful. 



Fritters. 

A pint of flour and a pint of milk mixed to- 
gether, 3 tablespoonsful of hominy and 2 eggs with 
a teaspoonful of salt. The whole must be well 
mixed and dropped with a large spoon into boiling 
lard and fried brown. Each spoonful makes a 
fritter. 



Corn Griddle Cakes. 

To a pint of corn flour add a quart of milk, a 
tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs and a little salt; 
beat them all well together and lay the batter on 
your griddle of which thickness you desire. 



Grits Bread. 

Beat up the yolk of one egg with a large cup 
of cold hominy, mashed up with a spoonful of 
butter and a little salt, to which add a pint of raw 
grits well drained after washing. Make it into 
a loaf and bake about half an hour. 



Sweet Potato Buns. 

Boil and mash a sweet potato. Rub into it as 
much flour as will make it like bread. Add spice 
and sugar to your taste, with a spoonful of yeast. 
When it has risen well, work in a piece of butter. 
Bake it in small rolls to be eaten hot with butter. 



Couche Couche. 

Make a paste as you make for corn bread by the 
above receipt. Sweaten it with sugar. Instead of 
putting it in a pan, you grease a pot with lard and 
as the paste cooks to the side of the pot you scrape 
it off with a spoon. Do that hve or six times until 
all your paste is cooked. It is delicious for break- 
fast with coffee. The Southern children are very 
fond of it with milk . 



Aunt Anne's Koecake. 

Take a large cupful of corn meal, sift it in a 
bowl, one pinch of salt, mix it with a little boiling 
water. Let it get cold. Make small round cakes, 
pinch them on top. Put in a pan to bake in the 



Hominy Bread and Waffles. 

One egg, 4 tablespoonsful of hominy, 4 table- 
spoonsful of plain flour, two tablespoonsful of 
melted butter, and two cupsful of sweet milk. Put 
the butter in the hominy and add the other in- 
gredients, putting in the flour last, with a small 
pinch of baking powder. 



Corn Muffins. 

To three pints of corn meal add a pint of tepid 
water, a teacupful of yeast, a tablespoonful of 
sugar and a teaspoonful of salt; mix all well to- 
gether and bake in rings. To be mixed at night 
for use the next morning and in the morning for 
evening use. 



Corn Meal Bread. 

Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg ijnto a 
pint of corn meal. Make it a batter with 2 eggs 
and some new milk. Add a spoonful of yeast. 
Set it by the fire an hour to rise. Butter little 
pans, fill them and bake. 



Thin Corn Bread. 

Beat 2 eggs with a tablespoonfui of sugar, 1 
and one-third cups of corn meal, one-third cup of 
flour, 2 tablespoonsful of melted butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, milk enough to make a very thin 
batter. Sometimes use 2 tablespoonsful of cooked 
hominy and less meal. Bake in a hot oven about 
SO minutes. 



West Indies Cookies. 

Grate a piece of pumpkin, add a piece of butter 
size of an egg, a little cinnamon, a cupful of sugar, 
corn meal enough to bind it together. Cook in 
plantin leaf or greased paper, or on a banana 
ileaf; bake quickly. Same thing can be done with 
sweet potatoes. 



Boiled Hominy. 

Two cups of boiled hominy (white hominy), soak 
over nig^ht in cold water, let the water cover the 
hominy in morning, add a teaspoonful of salt and 
mix all together. Put in a double boiler for half 
an haur, stir occasionally if you want it drier; 
don't put so much water to it and uncover it and 
let it dry. 



How to Cook Rice — No. 1. 

Take a cupful of rice and put it in a colander 
and wash it thoroughly; then after letting the 
water drain off put it in a saucepan with water 
enough to cover the rice. Shake the saucepan oc- 
casionally and if the rice adheres to the bottom of 
the saucepan use a fork to loosen it. 



Row to Cook Rice — No. 2. 

Take a cupful of rice and put it in a colander 
and wash it thoroughly; then after washing and 
letting it drain put the colander of rice in a sauce- 
pan, putting a little water in saucepan to keep the 
pan from burning, and put it in the oven shaking 
the saucepan occasionally. 



Corn Pone. 

Corn pone is highly recommended as a breakfast 
dish. Take a heaping coffee cupful of boiling homi- 
ny, heat it and then put in a tablespoonful of 
butter, 3 eggs and nearly 1 pint of sweet milk. 
As much corn meal may be added as will serve 
to thicken this until it is like the batter for Johnny 
cakes. Bake in a quick oven and serve. 



Pop-Overs. 

Tv/o cupsful of flour, 3 eggs, 2 cupsful of miilf, 
one-haif of salt, beat eggs without separating very 
light. Pour mixture slowly over flour to prevent 
lumping, grease cups with butter. Put in oven to 
get hot. Cook in moderate oven at bottom about 
three-quarters of an hour. 



Corn Bread. 

A handful of hominy, 2 spoonsful of batter and 
lard mixed, 3 eggs, one cupful of corn meal and 
one cupful of milk. 



Batter Bread. 

Six tablespoonsful of wheat flour, three of corn 
meal, with a little salt,; sift them, and make a 
thin batter v/ith 4 eggs and some milk. Bake in 
moulds in a quick oven. 



Mountain Bread. 

A pint of sour buttermilk, a large spoonful of 
butter, a large teaspoonful of soda, salt to the 
taste. Stir into the buttermilk about a pint of 
corn meal, rub in the batter and salt, dissolve the 
soda in a wineglass of warm water and add it. 
Should this mixture not be stiff enough to be 
made into a cake v/ith the hands add more flour. 
Bake about half an hour in a moderate oven. 



Corn Wafers — No. 1. 

One pint of meal, one gill of milk and one gill 
of water, a desert spoonful of butter and a little 
salt. Bake to a light brown. 



Corn Wafers — No. 2. 

To 2 tablespoonsful of cold hominy add one 
tablespoonful of rice flour and 1 of wheat flour, a 
little salt. Thin it with milk to the proper consis- 
tency to be baked in wafer iron. 



Breakfast Meal Cakes. 

To a pint of corn meal add a pint of buttermilk 
or clabber, one egg, two ounces of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and one of soda; mix all well to- 
gether observing to add the soda just before the 
cakes are sent to the oven. Bake quickly. Rice 
may be substituted for corn meal. 



Corn Ring Cakes. 

Two eggs, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of corn meal and 
a little salt and a desert spoonful of butter. Mix 
these ingredients well together and bake in rings 
or small pans. 



Corn Crisp. 

One pint of meal, a tablespoonful of lard, a little 
salt and add a little water Make it into a cake 
about half an inch thick and lay it upon your board; 
put it before the fire and when brown pass a course 
thread under it and turn it upon another board. 

When baked on that side take it up, split the 
cake and then put the crusts on the gridiron and 
brown and crisp them. 



Corn Cake. 

With one quart of corn meal scalded, mix one 
half quart of milk and one half quart of water, 
small quantities of soda, salt and brown sugar. 



Accabee Corn Bread. 

One pint of corn meal, one quart of milk, 2 eggs 
and a little salt. Beat the eggs and add the other 
ingredients. Bake in a pan about an inch thick. 



Alexander's Corn Bread. 

Take 1 pint of buttermilk, three eggs and a 
teaspoonful of saleratus. Mix them well together 
and add enough corn meal to make a thin batter. 
Drop it from a spoon in tin sheets and bake. 



Camp Corn Bread. 

To half a pint of hot hominy add a large 
spoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of salt and a 
large teacup of milk. Mix these ingredients well 
together and add as much corn meal as will bring 
it to a proper consistency for baking. Let it re- 
main for some hours in this state before baking. 



Espetanga Corn Bread. 

Boil three sweet potatoes of the common size 
and mash them up with a large spoonful of butter. 
To this add a teaspoonful of salt and an egg. 
When these have been well mixed put in about 
three-quarters of a pint of corn flour and beat the 
whole together, adding by degrees about three 
gills of milk. While this is preparing, the cover 
of a dutch oven must be heated and when the mix- 
ture is ready, which will be in ten minutes, it must 
be put into a skillet which has been greased and 
placed on hot coals. The cover must then be put 
over with hot coals on the top. It will take about 
a quarter of an hour to bake, which must be done 
as soon as the mixture is r^repared, or it will be- 
come hard. With sugar, wine and butter as a sauce 
it makes a good pudding. 



Sampit Bread. 

One tablespoonful of lard or butter, 5 tablespoons- 
ful of corn flour, 4 of hominy, 2 eggs, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Rub the hominy and butter well to- 
gether, then add the eggs, four, and salt, and after 
rubbing the whole well put the mixture into a plata 
or tin pan and bake in a quick oven. 



Bachelor's Pone. 

Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a 
pint of new milk. Beat the yolks of 5 or 6 egga 
very light, stir into the milk some Indian meal; 
then add the eggs and a little salt. Make it rather 
fitiffer than a flour pudding. Bake it in a quick 
oven in a buttered pan. 



Indian Cakes. 

Two eggs, one pint of milk, 2 spoonfuls of mo- 
lasses and meal enough to make a thick batter, a 
little salt. Dissolve a small teaspoonful of pear- 
lash in warm water and mix it well with the other 
ingredients. Bake about 1 hour. 



Port Royal Corn Cakes. 

One pint of corn meal, 4 tablespoonsful of wheat 
flour, 1 quart of milk, 3 eggs, salt to taste. Mix 
the meal and flour with the milk, beat the eggs 
very light and add them. Bakf on a griddle and 
serve hot wth fresh butter . 



OwendaTT Corn Bread. 

Take about 2 teacups of hominy and while hot 
mix in it a very large spoonful of butter. Beat 
four eggs and stir them into the hominy; next 
add about a pint of milk, and lastly half a pint of 
com meal. The batter should be of the consisten- 
cy of a rich boiled custard; if thicker add a little 
more milk. Bake with a hot oven. The pan 
in which it is baked should be a deep one. 



Chicora Corn Bread. 

To one quart of milk add 6 eggs well beaten, 1 
tablespoonful of wheat flour and 1 tea spoonful of 
saleratus, a large spoonful of butter, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of brown sugar with as much corn meal aa 
will make a thick batter, add a little salt and bake 
as soon as mixed in tin or earthen pans. 



Polento — ^^Indian Meal. 

Three-fourth of a cup of yellow meal, 3 cups of 
water. Put the water into a granite or iron sauce- 
pan, add salt. When it begins to boil add the In- 
dian meal, little by little. Keep stirring constantly 
as you pour it in, to prevent lumps. Boil for one- 
half hour, stirring constantly over a moderate fire. 
If desired, a little more v/ater may be added if 
preferred not so thick. Add grated cheese and 
butter. 



Polenta Fritters. 

Put on pinch of salt and one tablespoon of sugar 
into a cup of milk, and put it on to boil. As soon 
as it boils pour in, little by little, one half scant 
cup of fine Indian meal, stirring with a wooden 
spoon. Allow it to boil gently for twenty minutes. 
Take off the stove and add one tablespoon of butter 
and the yolk of one egg and a little grated lemon 
peel. Beat up well to mix the egg and butter. 
Then turn the mixture onto the breadboard which 
has been dampened; spread it out to the thickness 
of a finger. Let it cool, then cut into squares or 
diamonds and dip these into egg and then into 
bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard, a few at a 
time. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. 



Polenta, "alia Toscana." 

Two cups meal and 3 pints cold v/ater. Put the 
water on and when it boils add salt, then add meal, 
stirring ail the time. Let boil over a moderate 
fire for one-half hour. When the meal has become 
quite stift* take a wooden spoon and dip it into hot 
v/ater and with it detach the meal from the side of 
the pan and hold the saucepan for a moment over 
the hottest part of the fire until the Indian meal 
has become detached from the bottom. Turn it 
out on the breadboard, and let it stand a few mo- 
ments to cool. Then with a wire cut it into slices 
about the thickness of a finger. Place these slices 
on a hot platter in a layer, pour over them a good 
meat gravy and grated cheese, then put on another 
layer of the polenta and add more gravy and cheese, 
and so on until your polenta is used up. 

(Both of these recipes are taken from "Cooking 
in Old Creole Days.") 



Polenta Dabs. 

Scald a pint of Indian corn meal with boiling 
water, add two light beaten eggs, one wineglass of 
cream, salt, beat it thoroughly, and drop a spoonful 
on a well buttered pan. Bake on moderate oven 
20 or 30 minutes. 



Small Hints. 

Salt increases the intensity of cold. A pinch of 
salt helps to beat the whites of eggs. 
Fry fish and oysters in corn meal. 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 

m 

014 359 675 8 




THE AIKEN STANDARD PRESS, AIKEN, S. C. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 359 675 8 



