% 



Hollinger Corp. 
pH8.5 



Copy 1 




Ceacfjcrg CoUege 
Columtiia ^nibcrgitp 



HOW TO PLAN MEALS 
IN WAR TIME 

With Economical Menus and Suggestions 
for Marketing 

By Mary Swartz Rose 

Assistant Professor of Household Arts, Teachers College 
with the cooperation of 

Mary G. McCormick, Irma A. Latzer 

and the students in one of the 

Emergency Courses offered by the Department of Nutrition 

Teachers College, May 14-26, 191 7 



Technical Education Bulletin, No. 33 

New Impression 



Published by 

^cacliers! CoUege. Columbia tianibersiitp 

New York City 
1917 



"K^JT-jfK 



War Emergency Bulletins 

The following bulletins, published by Teachers College in the Technical 
Education Bulletin series, are selected because of their interest in time 
of emergency. 

No. 38. War Breads. Prepared by the Department of Foods and Cookery. 
School of Practical Arts, Teachers College. 5 cents. 

No. 37. Corn and Corn Meals. Day Monroe, Elizabeth Guilford, and Anna 
Colman, Department of Foods and Cookery, Teachers College. 
25 cents. 

No. 36. Tested International Receipes. Professor May B. Van Arsdale, Day 
Monroe, and others. 20 pp. 20 cents. 

No. 35. Some Sugar Saving Sweets for Every Day. Professor May B. Van 
Arsdale and Day Monroe, Teachers College. 20 pp. 20 cents. 

No. 34. Ninety Tested, Palatable and Economical Recipes for the House- 
wife. Department of Foods and Cookery, School of Practical Arts, 
Teachers College. 20 pp. 30 cents. 

No. 33. How to Plan Meals in Time of War, with Economical Menus and 
Directions for Marketing. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers 
College. 16 pp. 20 cents. 

No. 32. Lessons in Home Nursing. Professor Isabel M. Stewart, Teachers 
College. 12 pp. IS cents. 

No. 31. Simple Lessons on the Physical Care of Children. Dr. Josephine 
Hemenway Kenyon. 20 cents. 

No. 30. EconomicalDiet AND Cookery IN Time of Emergency. Professors Rose 
and Winchell and Miss Shapleigh, Teachers College. 12 pp. 15 cents. 

No. 3. The Feeding of Young Children. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teach- 
ers College. 12 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 4. Hints ON Clothing. Professor Mary SchenckWoolman. 8 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 7. Determination of Cotton and Linen. Dr. Herzog. Translated by 
Ellen A. Beers, B.S. 24 ill., 2 color prints. 25 cents. 

No. 18. Canned Foods: Fruits and Vegetables. Florence R. Corbett, formerly 
Instructor in Household Arts, Teachers College. i6 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 19. Physical and Chemical Tests for the Housewife. Sadie B. Vanderbilt, 
Instructor in Household Chemistry, Teachers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 22. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery 
Processes. Professor May B. Van Arsdale, Teachers College. 16 pp. 
10 cents. 

No. 23. Food for School Boys and Girls. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teach- 
ers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 26. A Survey of Your Household Finances. Professor Benjamin R. An- 
drews, Teachers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 27. Some Food Facts to Help the Housewife in Feeding the Family. 
Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers College. 8 pp. 5 cents. 

A complete list will be sent on application. Prices include postage 



Bureau of Publications 
Teachers College Columbia University 

New York City z.m 4.1s 



' '^. 






HOW TO PLAN MEALS IN WAR TIME 

WITH ECONOMICAL MENUS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR MARKETING 

PART I 

Emergency Dietaries Without Special Limitation Upon Cost 

Upon the United States of America has fallen the duty of furnish- 
ing sustenance for a vast number of people, at a time when shortage 
of certain staple crops renders the fulfilling of the obligation pecu- 
liarly difficult. Our hope of success rests upon the hearty cooperation 
of all the people in the undertaking. The first and most pressing 
task is to avoid waste of even the smallest particles of food material. 
This is a service in which every one can participate, at least by cheer- 
fully eating what is set before him and 'clearing his plate' every 
time, thus preventing food which has been sent to the table returning 
to the kitchen, there in danger of being consigned to the garbage 
pail. Those who cook can serve gloriously by letting nothing be 
burned or spilled, and by taking such pains that no one is tempted 
to leave partly eaten food to its fate. 

Besides prevention of waste, it is our duty so to distribute food 
between our allies and ourselves that our allies have those things 
which are most useful to them and most suitable for transportation. 
This means that one of the staples which we must use sparingly is 
wheat. And since thirty-one per cent, of the fuel value of the 
American diet has hitherto consisted of wheat flour and bread, 
doing without considerable quantities of wheat necessitates some 
modification of our ordinary eating habits. 

Furthermore, the general shortage of food materials lays upon us 
the necessity of saving grain by raising fewer animals for meat. 
The average American spends about one-third of his food money for 
meat, so that any considerable reduction in his meat consumption 
will result in a distinct alteration in the character of his meals. 

Finally, in such times of stress, when thousands are starving, 
others should not be eating more than they need and storing the 
surplus in their own bodies as fat, when it ought to go to those who 
need it to sustain life itself. Hence, a general program of abstemious 



4 HOW TO PLAN MEALS IN WAR TIME 

living is in order. While it is not probably true that in the long run 
most people eat too much, there are some who habitually overeat, 
and others who do so spasmodically, and all well-nourished adults 
could afford to be more abstemious for a while. 

With such points as these in mind, a week's menus have been 
planned, in which other cereals largely take the place of wheat, and 
meat is used in very moderate amounts. Potatoes are also used 
sparingly on account of their present scarcity. Quantities of food 
sufficient for the maintenance of an adult man who is not doing 
heavy manual labor have been indicated in market lists. For very 
active men, for women, and for children, suitable modifications have 
been suggested. 

GENERAL PLAN OF MEALS 

Breakfast: Fruit, cereal, bread in some form, coffee or other beverage, eggs if 
desired. 

Luncheon: One substantial dish accompanied by a vegetable, bread and butter, 
fruit or other simple dessert. 

Dinner: Meat or a suitable substitute, potatoes or a suitable substitute, a green 
vegetable, bread and butter, and a dessert. 

The following suggestions are made as to the use of cereals, bread- 
stuffs, meat and potatoes : 

BREAKFAST 

Cereals Breadstuffs 

Oatmeal, 3 or 4 days per week White bread, 2 days per week 

Corn flakes, i day per week Corn bread or muffins, 2 days per 

Hominy grits, i day per week week 

Puffed rice, i day per week Rye bread or muffins, 3 days per 

Corn meal, i day per week week 

Rice muffins occasionally instead of 
corn meal 

LUNCHEON 

Main Dish Breadstuffs 
Eggs, 2 days per week Boston brown bread (with fine oat- 
Cheese, 2 days per week meal substituted for graham flour). 
Dried peas or beans, i day per week 2 days per week 
Creamed vegetable (or cream soup), Rye bread, 2 days per week 
2 days per week White bread, 2 days per week 

Corn bread, i day per week 



EMERGENCY DIETARIES WITHOUT LIMITATION OF COST 5 

DINNER 

Main Dish Potatoes or Substitute 

Meat, not more than 4 days per week Potatoes, 2 days per week 

Fish, at least i day per week Rice, 2 days per week 

Dried beans, peas, cheese, or nuts in Baked bananas, i day per week 

some form, at least i day per week Pearl hominy or 'samp, i day per 

Breadstuffs ""^^^ 

„,, . , , , , Carrots, parsnips, or other root vesre- 

White bread, 3 days per week ^ ui j 1 

_ , , , , table, I day per week 
Rye bread, 2 days per week 

Corn or Boston brown bread, 2 days 

per week 

GENERAL PLAN FOR PURCHASE OF FOOD MATERIALS 

To exercise proper supervision over food supplies, so as to detect 
undue waste and other extravagance, it is necessary to know some- 
thing of the amounts of different classes of food materials which 
taken together will insure adequate nourishment, and permit of the 
following of some special meal plan, such as that outlined above. 
The Diet List below is arranged for the average man not engaged in 
hard manual labor. To provide for a man at active manual labor 
or boys over twelve the amounts would need to be increased one- 
fifth or one-fourth; for active women, and girls over twelve, they 
would be fully adequate in most cases; for children under twelve, 
somewhat less food would be required, but the milk should be in- 
creased to one quart per capita. For children under eight the meat 
could be omitted entirely. 

DIET LIST 

Milk, adults i pint; children, i quart Sugar (including molasses and 

Meat or fish, 4 to 6 ounces, butcher's syrup), 2 to 3 ounces 

weight 1 Eggs, i to 2 

Cereals, 3 to 4 ounces Potatoes or equivalent in cereals or 

Breadstuflfs (including flour), 5 to 6 otherroot vegetables, 4 to 5 ounces 

ounces Fruits and green vegetables, ad lib- 
Fats (for table and cooking), 2 to 4 Hum 

ounces 

ONE week's MENUS EMBODYING ABOVE SUGGESTIONS 

These menus are made out upon the above per capita basis and 
will furnish an adequate diet provided fruits and vegetables are 
included each day and the amounts indicated are taken to mean food 

1 Milk, peas, beans, cheese, or peanut butter may take its place wholly or in part. 



6 HOW TO PLAN MEALS IN WAR TIME 

actually eaten. In a family where there are children, certain changes 
in any menu proposed for adults are always necessary. For illus- 
trations of the best types of meals for children other publications 
should be consulted. ^ 



Breakfast: Oranges, cornmeal and cream of wheat cooked together, half and half, 
white bread toasted and buttered, coffee, sugar and cream.' 

Luncheon: Japanese eggs,* Boston brown bread, baked bananas. 

Dinner: Cream of celery soup, Boston roast,^ asparagus, rye bread, lemon 
milk sherbet. 

Materials Required ^ 

I orange i>2 ounces white bread 

4 tablespoons cornmeal iji cups milk 

lyi tablespoons cream of wheat i tablespoon lemon juice 

5K tablespoons butter' iK tablespoons rye flour 

6y2 tablespoons sugar l>2 tablespoons fine rolled oats 

I tablespoon thick cream i tablespoon molasses 

I tablespoon rice 3 tablespoons navy beans 

I egg }4 ounce cheese 

I apple 2 ounces rye bread 

I tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons coffee 

10 stalks asparagus Few stalks celery 



Breakfast: Stewed prunes, corn flakes, rice muffins, eggs, coffee, sugar, and cream. 

Luncheon: Cream of corn soup, Welsh rarebit on rye bread toast, gingerbread. 

Dinner: Lamb chops, scalloped potatoes, squash, white bread, tomato salad, 
French dressing, cream puffs. 

2 Teachers College Bulletins: Feeding of Young Children, Food for School Boys and Girls; 
Emergency Committee, American Home Economics Association, 19 West 44th Street, New York 
City, Bulletin: The Children's Meals. 

' Unless thick cream is specified, it is assumed that the top of each bottle of milk is removed and 
served for cream. 

^ Poached eggs served in a border of steamed rice. 

' Boston roast (serves eight) : 

2 cups dried kidney beans 3 teaspoons salt 

1 cup dried bread crumbs i tablespoon chopped onion 

2 cups grated cheese 14 cup water or stock 

Soak beans over night, cook until tender and water nearly evaporated, put through a food chopper, 
add other ingredients, shape into a loaf, and bake i hour. 

« In this and the following lists, baking powder, soda, salt, etc., are omitted. 

' For the sake of economy, oleomargarine is recommended in place of butter. 



EMERGENCY DIETARIES WITHOUT LIMITATION OF COST 7 



cup corn flakes 

cups milk 
, tablespoons thick cream 

cup flour 
. tablespoons butter 

prunes 

tablespoon rice 

egg 

tablespoons sugar 

cup canned corn 

ounces cheese 



Materials Required 

]4. tablespoon cornstarch 
3 ounces rye bread 
I yi tablespoons molasses 

% cup cooked squash 
\Yi ounces white bread 
I medium tomato 
yi head lettuce 
I tablespoon olive oil 

1 large lamb chop 

2 tablespoons coffee 
I medium potato 

I teaspoon vinegar 



WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast: Fresh pineapple, oatmeal, rye bread toasted and buttered, orange 

marmalade, coffee, cream, and sugar. 
Luncheon: Spanish rice,^ dandelion jelly salad, mayonnaise dressing, white bread 

and butter, cup custard. 
Dinner: Roast beef, samp baked with milk (i cup milk and 5 cups water 

to I cup uncooked samp), string beans, white bread and butter, 

pear salad, French dressing, chocolate blanc-mange with cream. 



I slice pineapple, i inch thick 
^A cup oatmeal 
\}i ounces rye bread 
4 ounces white bread 

3 tablespoons butter 
I tablespoon marmalade 

1 egg 

2 tablespoons coffee 

4 tablespoons rice 

3 leaves lettuce 

>4 cup cooked dandelion greens 
14 tablespoon gelatin 

2 tablespoons oil 



Materials Required 

I tablespoon vinegar 

4 ounces beef (raw weight) 

1 tablespoon samp 

3 ounces string beans 

2 halves canned pears 
14 ounce chocolate 

2^ cups milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 
I tablespoon onion 

I }4 tablespoons cornstarch 
I ounce salt pork 
14 cup canned tomato 
14 teaspoon green pepper 



THURSDAY 

Breakfast: Stewed rhubarb with raisins, oatmeal, white bread toasted and but- 
tered, eggs, coffee, sugar, and cream. 

Luncheon: Vegetable soup, cream cheese and nut salad, mayonnaise dressing, rye 
bread and butter, rice pudding. 

Dinner: Beef stew, spinach, fried egg plant, corn bread and butter, strawberries 
and cream. 

» For recipe see Teachers College Bulletin, Economical Diet and Cookery in Time of Emergency. 



HOW TO PLAN MEALS IN WAR TIME 



Materials Required 



yi cup oatmeal 
2K eggs 

2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons thick cream 
4>^ tablespoons sugar 

6 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons coffee 
2>^ ounces rye bread 
lyi tablespoons cream cheese 

2 small carrots 

I slice turnip 
yi onion 

I stalk celery 

I medium potato 



% cup tomato 

4 tablespoons flour 
yi ounce walnut meats 

2 ounces white bread 

2 leaves lettuce 

1 tablespoon oil 

2 ounces beef (lean meat) 
8 raisins 

2 stalks rhubarb 

2 tablespoons cornmeal 
% medium egg plant 
% pound spinach 
Yi cup strawberries 
l4 tablespoon rice 



Breakfast: Bananas, hominy, rye bread buttered and toasted, omelet, coffee, 

cream, and sugar. 
Luncheon: Pea loaf served with carrots in cream sauce, corn muffins, butter, peach 

marmalade, junket. 
Dinner: Fish, baked potatoes, spinach, rye bread and butter, strawberry 

sponge, oatmeal macaroons. 



1 banana 

3 tablespoons hominy 

4 ounces rye bread 

2 eggs 

2 tablespoons coffee 
8 tablespoons butter 
i/s cup dried peas 
yi cup bread crumbs 
2 cups milk 
yi cup cornmeal 
y^ cup carrot cubes 



Materials Required 



1 tablespoon flour 

2 tablespoons peach marmalade 
y^ pound halibut (or other fish) 

I medium potato 

yi cup strawberries 

I teaspoon gelatin 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 
X pound spinach 

6 tablespoons sugar 
X junket tablet 
yi cup rolled oats 



SATURDAY 

Breakfast: Oranges, oatmeal, rye muffins and butter, coffee, sugar, and cream. 
Luncheon: Fish timbales with cream sauce and peas, Boston brown bread, stewed 

apricots, cocoa. 
Dinner: Kidney bean stew,' Southern spoon bread,'" butter, banana fritters, 
cucumber salad, peach Bavarian cream. 
' For recipe see Teachers College Bulletin, Economical Diet and Cookery in Time of Emergency. 
1" For recipe see Columbia University Bulletin, Wheat Substitutes. 



EMERGENCY DIETARIES WITHOUT LIMITATION OF COST 9 



I 

K 

4 

4 
2 

4K 

3/r 



orange 
cup oatmeal 
tablespoons sugar 
cups milk 
tablespoons butter 
eggs 

tablespoons rye flour 
cup wheat flour 
tablespoons coflFee 
tablespoon cocoa 
tablespoons molasses 
tablespoons corn meal 
tablespoons graham flour 
halves apricots 
tablespoons bread crumbs 



Materials Required 

)4 cup flaked fish 
2 tablespoons green peas 

2 halves canned peaches 
J4 banana 

J4 cup kidney beans 
>2 onion 

}4 tablespoon rice 
}4 cup tomatoes 
}^ cucumber 

3 leaves lettuce 

)4 teaspoon lemon juice 
I teaspoon gelatin 
I tablespoon oil 

J/2 teaspoon vinegar 



SUNDAY 

Breakfast: Strawberries, puffed rice, cornmeal griddle cakes with syrup, coffee, 

sugar, and cream. 
Dinner: Chicken fricassee, boiled rice, asparagus, rolls, butter, orange and date 

salad, ice cream, sponge cake. 
Supper: Egg salad, bread and butter, stewed prunes, cocoa. 



Materials Required 



y^ pint strawberries 
34 cup puffed rice 

2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons coffee 
}i cup cornmeal 
()}4 cups flour 
X cup rice 

2 rolls 

6 dates 
^ orange 

5 leaves lettuce 

8 stalks asparagus 



2 tablespoons oil 
2 teaspoons vinegar 
2 eggs 
2 ounces white bread 

2 teaspoons cocoa 
5 prunes 

3 tablespoons sugar 
}i cup thick cream 

4 tablespoons butter 

}4 pound chicken (raw weight 
dressed) 



PART II 
Emergency Dietaries At Minimum Cost 

Higher prices for food, when the ordinary expenditure is barely 
sufficient for the maintenance of a family in good nutritive condition, 
threaten the undermining of health unless it is possible by choice of 
more economical food materials to provide the same nutriment 
without greater expenditure. And even if the family income is 
sufficient to allow ordinarily a rather liberal sum for food, the in- 
crease of prices upon other commodities makes it necessary for many 
to practice hitherto unthought of economies in the kitchen. 

In rearranging any dietary plan, it is important to bear in mind 
that the less money there is available for food, the more important 
milk and cereals become. As a people, we have been extravagant in 
the use of meat, and we must now remember that its cost is out of 
all proportion to its nutritive value; and that except as regards 
pleasing the palate, its place can be well taken by milk, cheese, 
dried peas and beans, and peanut butter. The most conspicuous 
difference between butter and other forms of fat is its flavor, for 
which we pay so dearly that where the strictest economy is to be 
practiced no butter should be bought unless it is as cheap as any 
other fat which we might use in its place — which is rarely the case. 
The chief advantages of fresh fruits and vegetables are their delight- 
ful flavor and texture, and these, too, we may forego in large measure 
without any nutritional disadvantage, using dried and canned fruits 
and vegetables instead. 

For the man doing moderately severe manual labor, and requiring 
from 3000 to 3500 calories per day, it is hardly possible at the 
present time to provide a wholesome and palatable diet, adequate 
in all respects, at a cost of less than 30 cents per day. The general 
plan upon which food selection must be based is shown below. 

CHOICE OF FOOD MATERIALS TO SECURE 3OOO TO 35OO CALORIES AT 
MINIMUM COST IN AN ADEQUATE DIET 

(Approximate) 
Bread and cereals 14 ounces 1000 calories 

Milk I pint 350 calories 



EMERGENCY DIETARIES AT MINIMUM COST II 

(Approximate) 

Fats (drippings, oleomargarine, lard substitutes) 2 ounces 425 calories 

Potatoes or equivalent in other root vegetables 5 ounces 100 calories 

Sugar or molasses 3 ounces 350 calories 

Dried fruit 2% ounces 200 calories 

Greens or other fresh vegetables according to season 10-50 calories 

Meat ^ (butcher's weight, 2]4. ounces lean meat) 7 ounces 100-150 calories 

, The lower the cost of the dietary, the more important it is that 
attention be given to the food for the young children. Care must 
be taken that money which should go for the milk so important for 
children's growth is not spent for meat to please the adults. The 
following is proposed as a good working plan for feeding a family 
adequately at a minimum cost. 

GENERAL PLAN OF MEALS FOR LOW-COST DIETARY 

Breakfast: Cereal (oatmeal, cornmeal, barley), bread (corn, rye, wheat), oleo- 
margarine, coffee for adults, milk for children to drink, sugar and 
milk for cereal and coffee. 

Dinner: Meat, fish, dried peas or beans, cheese, in stew, loaf or other hot dish,^ 
potatoes or other root vegetables, or rice, hominy, barley, greens 
according to season, bread (rye, corn, wheat, or made from flour 
mixtures), oleomargarine, cereal or milk pudding (rice, cornstarch, 
tapioca, cornmeal, oatmeal), or dried fruit with gingerbread or 
cookies, milk for young children to drink. 

Supper: Cream soup or puree of rice, hominy, cornmeal or macaroni combined 
with cheese or peanut butter, bread (corn, rye, wheat), oleomar- 
garine, dried fruit or cereal pudding, milk for children to drink. 

ONE week's MENUS FOR A FAMILY AT MINIMUM COST 

In harmony with the above general plan the following menus ^ 
have been prepared, with accompanying market orders for the day 
and the week, for a family consisting of two adults (father and 
mother) and four children, all under nine years of age. These menus 
provide about 12,500 calories per day and at the present time cost 
about $1.15 per day. 

1 To be replaced frequently by dried peas and beans, cheese, peanut butter. 

2 For recipes for meat substitutes see Teachers College Bulletin, Economical Diet and Cookery 
in Time of Emergency. 

' One week's menus from Stern and Spitz's Food for the Worker (Whitcomb and Barrows, 1917) 
were taken as the starting point, being adapted here to emergency conditions and family require- 
ments. 



12 



HOW TO PLAN MEALS IN WAR TIME 



MONDAY 

Breakfast: Oatmeal, corn bread, oleomargarine, coffee, milk for children to 
drink, sugar and milk for cereal. 

Dinner: Bean loaf,^ rice cooked with tomato, apple tapioca, rye bread, oleo- 
margarine, milk for children. 

Supper: Cornmeal mush (fried for adults, with milk for children), rye bread, 
oleomargarine, stewed prunes, cocoa (milk for youngest children). 



y^ pound dried apples 
% cup tapioca 

8 teaspoons cocoa 
yi pound prunes 

4 cups cornmeal 

2 cups sugar 

I ounce coffee 
4>^ quarts milk 



Materials Required 

2>2 cups rolled oats 
12 ounces rye bread 
% pound oleomargarine 

I cup navy beans 
1 6 soda crackers 
yi cup broken rice 
}i cup tomatoes 

TUESDAY 



Breakfast: Oatmeal with dates, rye bread, oleomargarine, coffee, milk for children 
to drink, sugar and milk for cereal. 

Dinner: Samp baked with cheese, whole wheat bread and oleomargarine, pea- 
nut butter, stewed apricots, milk for children. 

Supper: Split pea soup, corn bread, oleomargarine, dried apple sauce, milk for 
children. 

Materials Required 

5 ounces oleomargarine X pound cheese 

8 ounces rye bread i|^ cups dried apricots 

12 ounces whole wheat bread 4 ounces peanut butter 

4>^ quarts milk i cup cornmeal 

i>2 cups rolled oats I cup flour 

2 cups sugar I cup samp 

i,'/3 cups split peas yi cup dates 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast: Cornmeal mush, rye bread, oleomargarine, coffee, milk for children, 
sugar and milk for cereal. 

Dinner: Brazilian bean stew,* spinach, rye bread, oleomargarine, stewed dried 
peaches, tea for adults, milk for children, cheese for father's lunch. 

Supper: Codfish balls (made with rice instead of potatoes), graham bread, 
oleomargarine, junket, caramel sauce, tea for adults, milk and pea- 
nut butter for children. 
* Bean loaf: i cup beans cooked and put through food chopper or sieve, i cup cracker crumbs, 

lyi teaspoons salt, iK tablespoons fat; mix, shape into loaf and bake one-half hour. 

5 See recipe for kidney bean stew, Teachers College Bulletin, Economical Diet and Cookery in 

Time of Emergency. 



EMERGENCY DIETARIES AT MINIMUM COST 



13 



Materials Required 



2 cups cornmeal 
4>^ quarts milk 
i^ cups sugar 
20 ounces rye bread 
6 ounces oleomargarine 
}4 pound dried peaches 
2 ounces cheese 

2 junket tablets 

3 ounces peanut butter 
10 ounces graham bread 



3 teaspoons tea 
3 tablespoons coffee 
I cup Brazilian beans 
I pint tomatoes 

^ cup rice 
I tablespoon cornstarch 
I tablespoon onion 

}4 pound salt cod 
I pound spinach 



THURSDAY 

Breakfast: Hominy grits, corn bread, oleomargarine, coffee, milk for children, 
sugar and milk for cereal. 

Dinner: Macaroni and cheese, beet greens, white bread, oleomargarine, apple 
sauce, gingerbread, milk for children. 

Supper: Cream of celery soup, rhubarb sauce, graham bread, oleomargarine, 
oatmeal wafers, tea for adults, milk for children. 



Materials Required 



1% cups hominy grits 
4^ quarts milk 
10 ounces graham bread 
3 tablespoons coffee 
2 teaspoons tea 
13 ounces oleomargarine 
I cup cornmeal 
5^ cups white flour 

y^ cup crisco 
1% cups molasses 
I pound beet greens 



K cup macaroni (i inch pieces) 
}4 cup grated cheese 
2 tablespoons vinegar 
6 apples 
2y2 cups sugar 

12 ounces white bread 
I yi teaspoons ginger 
2 cups rolled oats 
I tablespoon cornstarch 
I pound rhubarb 
I pound celery 



FRIDAY 

Breakfast: Cornmeal mush (fried and served with syrup for adults, with milk and 
syrup for children), white bread toasted, oleomargarine, coffee, milk 
for children. 

Dinner: Baked beans, whole wheat bread, oleomargarine, carrot marmalade,^ 
tea for adults, milk for children, peanut butter and banana for father. 

Supper: Cream toast with one egg, stewed raisins, oatmeal wafers, milk. 

^ For recipe see Teachers College Bulletin, Economical Diet and Cookery in Time of Emergency. 



14 



HOW TO PLAN MEALS IN WAR TIME 



Materials Required 



I cup cornmeal 
12 ounces white bread 
10 ounces whole wheat bread 
)4 cup oatmeal 
I tablespoon crisco 
6 ounces oleomargarine 
4^2 quarts milk 
ii/s cups navy beans 
}4 ounce peanut butter 



I egg 

1 banana 

2 cups raisins 

3 cups sugar 

}i pound carrots 

}4 orange 

>2 lemon 

2 tablespoons coffee 
2 teaspoons tea 



SATURDAY 



Breakfast: Barley, whole wheat bread, oleomargarine, coffee, milk for children, 

sugar and milk for cereal. 
Dinner: Split peas baked with pork, corn bread, steamed rice with milk for 

youngest children, apple sauce, milk for children, tea for adults. 
Supper: Cheese cream toast, stewed prunes, whole wheat bread, oleomargarine, 

milk for children, tea for adults. 



4>^ quarts milk 
20 ounces whole wheat bread 

1 cup cornmeal 

2 cups barley 
I cup rice 

I % cups split peas 
% pound salt pork 
^ cup flour 
}4 pound prunes 



Materials Required 

5 ounces oleomargarine 
J4 cup molasses 
4 teaspoons tea 
X cup coffee 
I cup dried apples 
i}4 ounces cheese 
I cup sugar 
I slice onion 

SUNDAY 



Breakfast: Hominy grits, rye bread, oleomargarine, coffee, milk for children, sugar 

and milk for cereal. 
Dinner: Baked corn and beans, rye bread, oleomargarine, rice pudding with 

raisins. 
Supper: Baked bananas, cornmeal muffins, oleomargarine, milk for children, 

tea for adults. 



1 cup hominy grits 
5 quarts milk 

X cup coffee 

24 ounces rye bread 

5 ounces oleomargarine 
1 5^ cups sugar 

2 cups Brazilian beans 



Materials Required 

1 cup canned corn 
^ cup rice 

^ cup raisins 
5 bananas 
f^ cup corn meal 
^ cup flour 

2 teaspoons tea 



EMERGENCY DIETARIES AT MINIMUM COST 



15 



MARKET LIST FOR THE WEEK 



32 quarts milk 


% pound prunes 


^i pound cheese 


yi pound dried peaches 


2 eggs 


yi pound dried apples 


2yi pounds oleomargarine 


yi pound dried apricots 


2>^ ounces crisco 


I pound rhubarb 


^yi ounces peanut butter 


6 bananas 


yi pound salt pork 


y2 orange 


yi. pound salt cod 


yi. lemon 


3K^ pounds cornmeal 


6 fresh apples 


3 ounces macaroni 


y2 pound coffee 


1% pounds split peas 


I ounce tea 


I pound navy beans 


I pound spinach 


\}4. pounds Brazilian beans 


I pound beet greens 


^ pound hominy 


I ounce gelatin 


if^ pounds rolled oats 


I can corn 


5 ounces samp 


I small onion 


I pound, 9 ounces rice 


I pound celery 


y^ pound barley 


2 junket tablets 


^ pound tapioca 


Yi pound carrots 


2 pounds flour 


I pint canned tomatoes 


I ounce cornstarch 


4 pounds rye bread 


Yi, ounce cocoa 


I Y^ pounds graham bread 


53^ pounds sugar 


I Y pounds white bread 


lyi cups molasses 


lyi pounds whole wheat bread 


\yi pounds raisins 


Y pound crackers 


yi pound dates 





LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




013 826 870 6 « 



