TX go? 



rx 803 
.P35 R5 
-opy 1 



B104-617-3m 



University of Texas Bulletin 

No. 1720: April 5, 1917 

DEPARTMENT OF EXTENSION 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 

BY 
JESSIE P. RICH 

Formerly of the Department of Extension, Division of Home Welfare 




Published by the University six times a month and entered as 

second-class matter at the postoffice at 

AUSTIN, TEXAS 






The benefits of education and of 
useful knowledge, generally diffused 
through a community, are essential 
to the preservation of a free govern- 
ment. 

Sam Houston 



Cultivated mind is the guardian 
genius of democracy. . . . It is the 
only dictator that freemen acknowl- 
edge and the only security that free- 
men desire. 

Mirabeau B. Lamar 



D. of D. 
AUG 22 1917 






The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 



The peanut is not a nut. We have too often thought of the 
peanut as a part of the circus or street parade, and have been 
misled by the latter half of its name and used it as we would 
nuts. The peanut is not a nut. It is a pea, and belongs to the 
same family as the common pea and bean. The term nut was 
applied to it on account of its flavor, which is similar to that of 
many of the true nuts. The object of this bulletin is to point 
out the* true food value of the peajiut and to show how it can 
be used in our dietary. 

The composition of the peanut. The peanut deserves to hold 
the same high rank among the foodstuffs used by man as do 
beans and other peas. Peanuts, like peas and beans, are a con- 
centrated food. They contain more fat and less starch than 
the other legumes, but have about the same amount of protein, 
or muscle building food. The diagrams illustrate the compar- 
ative composition of these various legumes. 

The high value of the peanut as a muscle building food. As 
indicated by the diagrams, the legumes have a high nutritive 
value and contain a large per cent of protein or muscle building 
substance. Few of our vegetable foodstuffs contain more than 
10 per cent to 15 per cent protein, while the legumes have from 
20 per cent to 30 per cent in their many varieties. The protein, 
or muscle building food, is a daily necessity in our diet and in 
the form of meat or eggs or cheese, is one of the most expensive 
food substances. The use of the peanut which is so rich in pro- 
tein is therefore strongly to be recommended to those to whom 
economy is important. It is, especially when raised at home, 
a comparatively cheap source of protein. The following diagram 
illustrates the food value and economy of the peanut compared 
with other staple foods. 









(NOT A TRUE NUTj 




PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION 



25.3 



35.6 



ZZ& 



z.o 



mm 



PROTEIN FAT CMBOHYDRATES ASK WXTETL 

FUEL VALUE: 

2500 CALORIES 
PLR POUND. 



DRIED PEA 




PERCEHTAGE COMPOSITE 



1 T — ■■■ E233. 

210 .1.8 55.4 2.G 13.0 

PROTEIfl-FAT'CARBOHYDRATES'ASA-WATER 

FUEL VALUE 
1611 CALORIES 
PER POUHD 



DRIED BEAU 




PERCENTAGE COMPOOTIOri 



mm 

25.5 n 50.9 3.3 13.1 

PROTEIft-FAT'CARBOHYDRATES-ASH-WATER' 

FUEL VALUE 
1565 CALORIES 
PER POUTfD 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 



FOOD VALUE OF THE PEANUT COMPARED WITH OTHER STAPLE 

FOODS. 



St p pie Foods 



Pennuts 

Porterhouse steak 

Whole milk 

Beans, dried 

Potatoes 

Cheese 



1 


Cost of 


Assumed 


1,000 


Cost 


Calories 


per 


of 


Pound 


Energy 


Cents 


Cents 


7.00 


3.06 


25.00 


22.05 


.05 


12.00 


.05 


3.01 


.02 


6.04 


16.00 


7.05 



Amount for 10c 



Fat 



Carbo- Energy 
Protein hydrates Calories 



Lbs. 
.45 

.07 
.10 
.03 

.23 



Lbs. 

.31 

.07 

.OS 

.45 

.09* 

.17 



Lbs. 

.20 

.13 
1.10 

.74 
.03 



2,767 
444 
815 
3,210 
1,550 
1,330 



10c worth of peanuts have a calorie value equal to. 



|"62c worth of steak. 
1 34c worth of milk. 
J 20c worth of cheese. 
|18e worth of potatoes. 
[ 9e worth of beans. 



Peanuts are not indigestible if properly used. Peanuts are 
thought by many to be indigestible. They have gained this repu- 
tation because usually they have been improperly prepared and 
eaten in large quantities after a hearty meal or between meals, 
or late at night. They are, as a rule, poorly masticated. The 
peanut therefore has caused digestive troubles and fallen into 
disrepute because of its abuse rather than its use. 

Rules for preparing peanuts. The peanut, in order to be prop- 
erly digested, should be regarded as a rich leguminous food, 
should be properly prepared, and used only in its proper place as 
any other member of the legume family is used. In the use and 
preparation of the peanut, the following things should be kept in 
mind: (1) Peanuts are high in protein and consequently take 
the place of meat in the dietary. (2) Peanuts are high in fats 
and can be used in place of other fats. For example : peanut 
sandwiches may be prepared without the addition of butter, 
and peanut bread does not need shortenings as the peanut fur- 
nishes a sufficient quantity of fat in both instances. (3) Peanuts 
contain raw starch and therefore must be cooked before they are 
digestible. They can be parched as roasted peanuts, or they may 
be prepared as are the peas and beans. The same pleasant flavor 
does not develop, however, when they are cooked in the latter 
way. (4) Peanuts are a highly concentrated food and should 
be thoroughly broken up before reaching the stomach. This may 
be accomplished by thorough mastication or by chopping or 



8 Built tin of the University of Texas 

grinding. When a food substance reaches the stomach in a state 
of fine division it is more quickly digested and more thoroughly 
utilized. 

Reasons for using peanuts iu the dietary. There are many 
reasons why the peanut should be a valued food, especially in 
Texas. (1) They are easily produced on the farm, and hence 
are very economical. (2) They can be easily kept for long 
periods. (3) Many products can be made from them, such as 
peanut butter, peanut meal, peanut oil and peanut flour, hence 
they offer a pleasing variety in the dietary. (4) They are a 
valuable and convenient food for school children. The peanut, 
butter sandwich, once or twice a week in the dinner pail is better 
than the thick slice of ham or fried pork. A bowl of hot peanut 
soup for the noon luncheon at school will go further in giving 
strength to prepare the afternoon recitations than the customary 
cold meat, cold fried eggs, and soggy biscuit. In using the pea- 
nut in the dietary of children, it should be ground or pounded 
to insure a thorough breaking up. (5) Peanuts are a good 
substitute for meat. Meat should not be eaten at every meal. 
Eating too much meat causes many of our common ills. 

RECIPES. 

The following recipes indicate a few of the ways in which 
peanuts may be used as a food in the home : 

Peanut Butter. 

By a little experience and the aid of a small meat grinder, 
anyone can make good peanut butter for home use. The peanuts 
may be roasted before or after shelling, but in either case the 
oven should be only moderately hot and the peas should be 
stirred frequently. After roasting, rub off the skins. In grind- 
ing use the finest plate on the grinder and screw up the tension 
until the crank will be quite hard to turn. If the pulp is too 
coarse after one grinding, it may be run through a second time. 
It will not be necessary to add anything but a little salt to the 
butter, but, if desired, the butter may be thinned by the additioii 
of a little olive or peanut oil. The peanut butter made this way 
will, if kept in a cool place, keep several w r eeks, but will not keep 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 9 

indefinitely. There are on the market grinders made especially 
for preparing peanut butter. These grinders do not crush so 
many of the oil cells in the peanut and the butter 'keeps fresh a 
longer time. Should yon wish to perfect the making of pea- 
nut butter in the home, write The Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C, for The Farmers' Bulletin No. 431, on "The 
Peanut," by W. R. Beattie. 

Nut Bread. 

21/0 cups of flour.* 

2!/2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 •? cup of sugar. 

- : : cup of milk. 

1 egg, well beaten. 

1 cup chopped roasted peanuts. 

Sift flour and baking powder; add salt, sugar, and nut meats. 
Beat egg well, add milk to it and mix with dry ingredients. Put 
in pan and allow to stand ten minutes. Bake in moderate oven. 

Peanut Biscuit. 

2 cups flour. 

% cup of ground roasted peanuts. 
4 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
% cup of milk. 

Sift salt, flour and baking powder together. Add nuts and 
milk to make a stiff dough. Roll on a floured board to about 
14 inch thickness, cut and bake in a hot oven. 

Peanut Buns. 

Use the baking powder biscuit dough, the recipe for which is 
given below. Roll to about y§ inch thickness; cut into pieces 
about three inches square, place a tablespoon of peanut butter 
in the center; fold up the sides about it and bake. 



*A11 measures in this and all other recipes are level measures. 



10 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

(These are convenient and good sandwiches for the lunch 
basket.) 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

2 cups of flour. 

4 level teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 to 4 tablespoons shortening. 
% cup of milk. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt and put in fat. Add milk, 
stirring as little as possible. Pat into shape on floured board, 
roll 14 inch thick, cut and bake. 

Peanut Milk Toast. 

Toast six slices dry bread. 

Butter toast with peanut butler. 

Make thin white sauce and turn over bread. 

White Sauce. 

1% tablespoons flour. 
2 table spoons butter. 
1 cup of milk. 
Yz tablespoon salt. 

Put butter in saucepan, stir until melted and bubbling; add 
flour and salt and stir until well blended. Pour on gradually 
the milk, adding about one-third at the time until well mixed, 
then beat until smooth and glossy. If a wire wisk is used all 
the milk may be added at one time. 

Peanut Sandwiches. 

1. Shell and peel off inner skin of roasted peanuts, then chop 
very fine and stir them quickly in mayonnaise dressing and 
spread between thin slices of bread. 

2. Shell and peel off inner skin of roasted peanuts, then chop 
very fine and spread them quickly on slices of buttered bread; 
sprinkle lightly with salt before putting slices together. 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 11 

3. Shell and peel off inner skin of roasted peanut? , then chop 
very fine and mix with enough cream cheese to hold them to- 
gether ; season and spread this on good sized square crackers 
or bread and serve with lettuce salad, or as a luncheon sandwich. 

4. Follow same directions for preparing nuts as given in 1, 
2 and 3. Add enough salad oil to make a smooth paste; add 
lemon juice in the proportion of % spoon of lemon juice to 3 
spoons of olive oil. Salt to taste and use as sandwich filling. 

5. Dilute 4 tablespoons peanut butter with 3 tablespoons 
boiling water. Add y 4 teaspoon salt. Beat well and spread on 
thin slices of bread. 

Peanut Soup No. 1. 

1% pints of peanuts. 
3 quarts of water. 
1 bay leaf. 
% cup celery. 
1 slice of onion. 
1 quart of milk. 

Peanut soup is made like a dried pea soup. Soak peanuts over 
night in two quarts of water ; in the morning drain, add remain- 
ing water, bay leaf, celery and onions; boil this slowly four or 
five hours, stirring frequently to prevent burning, or boil fifteen 
minutes and place in tireless cooker over night. Rub through 
sieve and return to fire. When again hot add the milk and let 
the soup boil up ; then season and it is ready to serve. 

Peanut Soup Xo. 2. 

2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons flour. 
4 cups of milk. 
1 cup roasted peanuts, or 
Y2 cup peanut butter. 
V/2 teaspoons of salt. 

Run peanuts through food chopper. Make a thin white sauce 
of the butter, flour, milk and salt as per directions given under 



12 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

"Peanut Milk Toast." Add chopped peanuts to the sauce. 
Bring to a boil and serve at once. Where the butter is used, 
thin it gradually with a part of the sauce to prevent lumping. 

Baked Peanuts. 



1 quart raw shelled peanuts. 

14 cup of molasses. 

1 tablespoon of salt. 

i/4 tablespoon of ginger. 

Water. 

Blanch one quart of raw shelled peanuts by dipping in hot 
water until the skins can be rubbed off with the fingers. Soak 
over night. In the morning boil for twenty minutes ; add 14 
cup of molasses, 1 tablespoon of salt, y± tablespoon of ginger. 
Put in bean pot, covered with water, and bake slowly for four 
or five hours, or until tender. Or put into tireless cooker for 
five to seven hours, and remove to oven for thirty minutes to 
brown done. 

Any baked peanuts left over may be rubbed through a sieve 
and used for making soup. 

I '(ii tin I Turnips. 

Slice turnips in rounds, throw into rapidly boiling water or 
meat stock and cook until tender. Place layer of turnips in 
bottom of buttered baking dish, sprinkle over these chopped 
roasted peanuts, and pour over this peanut butter thinned with 
warm water to consistency of cream. Repeat until dish is filled. 
Cover with bread crumbs. Season each layer with salt and 
pepper. Bake in the oven for about fifteen minutes, basting 
every little while with peanut butter thinned with a little hot 
water. 

Peanuts and Bice. 

% cup uncooked rice. 

1 cup chopped roasted peanuts. 

1 pint white sauce. 

Boil rice until thoroughly tender in salted boiling water and 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 13 

drain. Make a cream sauce, using one pint of milk, four table- 
spoons of butter and four tablespoons of flour. Heat the butter, 
stir in the flour, and cook a few minutes (be careful not to 
burn) ; then add the milk, heated. Boil for three minutes and 
season with one teaspoon of salt. Put bits of butter in the 
bottom of a baking dish or pan, add about half the rice, a gen- 
erous sprinkling of peanuts, and about half the cream sauce. 
Repeat this, beginning with the butter, then the rice, cheese, and 
cream sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. Serve at once. Where one is in a hurry or the oven is 
not hot, simply add peanuts to the white sauce and turn this 
over the cooked rice. 

Potato and Peanuts. 

6 medum sized cold boiled potatoes. 
2 cups white sauce. 

1 cup chopped roasted peanuts, or % cup peanut butter may 
be used. 

White Sauce. 

4 tablespoons butter. 
4 tablespoons flour. 
2 cups milk. 

Cut cold potatoes into cubes and mix with white sauce, to 
which the peanuts have been added. Put in a buttered baking 
dish, cover with bread crumbs, heat in oven until crnmbs are 
light brown. Serve in baking dish. 

Peanut Loaf l. 

1 cup roasted peanuts. 

2 cups bread crumbs. 
Vi cup melted butter. 
% teaspoon onion juice. 
1 egg. 

1 2 teaspoon salt. 
3/4 teaspoon pepper. 
Milk. 

To the peanuts, bread crumbs, melted butter, beaten egg. 
onion juice, salt and pepper, add enough milk to make a moist 



14 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

loaf. Stir all these well together and add more seasoning if re- 
quired. Put into a buttered tin or mold, bake for one hour in a 
moderate oven, covering the first half of the time. During the 
cooking, baste three times with melted butter. Turn out on a 
hot dish, sprinkle with chopped peanuts and serve with brown 
sauce. 

Peanut Loaf 2. 

1 large potato. 

1 cup roasted peanuts. 
1% cups bread crumbs. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons butter. 

1 small onion. 

1 cup hot water. 

1 pint strained tomatoes. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Grind the nuts, potato and onion. Add hot water, crumbs, 
butter, and salt, form in loaf, place in pan and turn. Pour 
tomato juice over it. Bake in moderate oven, occasionally bast- 
ing with the tomato juice. 

P< anut Macaroni. 

1 cup macaroni. 

2 cnps medium white sauce. 

1 •_» cup peanut butter. 
% teaspoon salt. 

Wash and break macaroni into short lengths, cook in salted 
boiling water until tender. Make medium thick white sauce 
and carefully add peanut butter. Put bits of butter in bottom 
of baking dish, add a layer of macaroni, cover with sauce and 
repeat; cover with crumbs and brown in a quick oven. Serve 
hot. 

White Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup milk. 

y 2 teaspoon salt. 

Melt butter, add flour and cook three minutes. Then add milk 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 15 

gradually, stirring until it thickens. Add salt just before 
serving. 

Tomatoes Stuffed With Peanuts. 

6 ripe tomatoes. 

% cup bread crumbs or cooked rice. 
1/2 cup chopped roasted peanuts. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon butter. 

Peel tomatoes, slice off top, and scoop out the center. Mix 
this center with crumbs, peanuts, salt and butter. Sprinkle 
inside of tomato with salt, fill with the mixture, replace top, 
and bake on a buttered ring of toast or slice of cold molded rice. 

Brown Sauce. 

2 tablespoons butter. 
i/o slice of onion. 

3 tablespoons flour. 
1 cup brown stock. 
x /4 tablespoon salt. 
Y 8 tablespoon pepper. 

Cook onions in butter until slightly browned; remove onion 
and stir butter constantly until well browned; add flour mixed 
with the seasoning, and stir until brown ; add stock gradually 
and cook until it begins to thicken. 

Peanut Chops. 

4 tablespoons peanut butter. 
6 tablespoons cream. 

1 egg. 

6 slices of bread. 

Cracker crumbs. 

Trim all crusts off the bread, spread the bread with peanut 
butter ; cut each slice into three oblong pieces ; beat the egg and 
add the cream. Dip the bread into the egg and cream mixture 



16 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

and then into the cracker crumbs. Place in a greased pan and 
bake in a hot oven until brown. 

Banana and Peanut Salad. 

Banana Chopped roasted peanuts. 

Lettuce Mayonnaise. 

Place i/o banana on lettuce leaf, sprinkle with chopped nuts, 
and serve with mayonnaise. 

Lettuct witJi Peanut Dressing. 

Lettuce. Peanut butter dressing. 

Crisp lettuce leaves. Serve with peanut butter dressing. 

Peanut Butter Dressing. 

2 eggs, beaten. 

4 tablespoons vinegar. 

2 tablespoons peanut butter. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup cream, whipped. 

Cook together the vinegar, eggs, sugar, salt and peanut butter: 
cool. Add cream and serve on head of lettuce. 

Peanut Cal< . 

14 cup butter. 

y~2 cup peanut butter thinned with Vi cup milk. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 
-1 e'ggs. 

1 cup of milk. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 2 teaspoon salt. 

Melt butter, add peanut butter thinned with milk. Stir in 



The Uses of the Peanut on the Home Table 17 

sugar, add egg yolks, milk and flour and stir well. Beat egg 
whites and fold into cake. Bake in layers as a loaf. Frost. 
Coarsely ground peanuts may be added to White Mountain 
Frosting and used to ice a simple cake. 

White Mountain Frosting. 

1 cup sugar White of one egg. 

% cup boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

y% teaspoon lemon juice. 

Put sugar and water in sauce pan and stir to prevent sugar 
from sticking to pan. Heat gradually to boiling point and boil 
without stirring until syrup will thread when dropped from 
spoon. Pour syrup gradually on beaten whites of eggs and con- 
tinue beating until right consistency to spread. 

Peanut Cookies. 

2 tablespoons butter. y 2 cup chopped roasted peanuts. 

V± cup of sugar. i/ 2 cup flour. 

1 egg- 2 tablespoons milk. 

14 teaspoon salt. y 2 tablespoon lemon juice. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and beaten eggs. Sift the 
flour and baking powder, add to the other ingredients. Then 
add milk, peanuts and lemon juice and stir until thoroughly 
mixed. Drop from teaspoon on buttered sheets one inch apart 
and place a half peanut on each. Bake twelve to fifteen minutes 
in a slow oven. 

Peanut Candy. 

1 cup sugar. 

y> cup chopped roasted peanuts. 

Heat the sugar in a hot oven or stir over the fire until melted. 
When it is melted move 'to the back of range and add peanuts, 
mixing them thoroughly with the syrup. Spread on a tin and 



18 Bulletin of the University of Texas 

press into shape with knives. (The tin does not need greasing.) 
Cut into bars at once, as it hardens rapidly. 

Salted Peanuts. 

Blanch the jumbo peanuts. Heat 1 cup of Wesson's salad oil 
and drop in % cup nuts. Cook until a delicate brown color, 
remove to unglazed paper and sprinkle with salt. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



' , ' in,,l,,l, "™iHllll III Jill 
°014 636 990 A • 



