Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 



Gift of 

Kiss Rosamond Lamb 



The OW Corner Book 

Store, Inc. 
- ^>. Mats. 



BETTER MEALS FOR 
LESS MONEY 



MARY GREEN 



NEW YORK 

HENHY HOLT AND COMPANY 

1917 



f. tU ^ 



^ 






COPTRIQBT, 1917, 
BT 

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY 



THI OUINN A aOOCN CO. PRtM 
RAMWAVi N. J. 



PREFACE 

With the steadily increasing cost of all staple foods the 
need of intelligent buying, cooking, and serving is greater 
than ever before : more money must be spent for food, or 
more consideration must be given to selecting and using it. 
For those who would continue to serve their households 
well, and whose allowance for food has not kept pace with 
prices, there is only one alternative, and that is, to use 
more of the cheaper foods, and to prepare and combine 
them so skilfully that economy shall not be a hardship. 
Good meals depend not so much upon expensive material 
as upon care and good judgment in the use of ordinary ma- 
terial. The time-worn boarding-house jokes about prunes 
and hash mean simply that these foods, in themselves 
excellent, are poorly prepared and too frequently served. 

It is the plan of this book to include a variety of (1) 
recipes which require only a small amount of meat; 
(2) recipes for vegetable dishes which can take the place 
of meat; (3) recipes for the economical use of cereals, 
dairy products, and other common inexpensive foods ; (4) 
recipes for breads, cakes, and desserts requiring only a 
small amount of butter and eggs; and (5) recipes for a 
few relishes, condiments, and other accessories which lend 
variety and interest. The General Suggestions for Econ- 
omy (Chapter I) are not all new, but are liable, through 
disuse, to be forgotten by the present generation. Spas- 
modic economy counts for little in the long run; only 

••• 
m 



iv PREFACE 

systematic and continued watchfulness is really worth 
while. 

Economy, however, ought not to necessitate the total 
elimination of one's favorite cuts of steak, nor all of the 
little luxuries, because by the skilful planning of the ma- 
jority of the meals the occasional use of these luxuries can 
be made possible. 

This book is not intended as a complete guide to cook- 
ery; it presupposes an elementary knowledge of the care 
and preparation of food. 

The study of Tables D and E in the Appendix is espe- 
cially recommended as an aid to the better understanding 
of food values. M. Or. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAOV 

I. General Suggestions for Economy ... 1 

II. Common Ways of Cooking Food .... 15 

III. Appetizers and Relishes 17 

IV. Beverages 23 

V. Soups without Meat 27 

VI. Soups and Stews with Meat or Fish . . 36 

VII. Chowders 43 

VIII. Fish 47 

IX. Meats 57 

X. Sauces and Stuffings for Fish and Meats . 80 

XI. Eggs 88 

XII. Cheese and Nuts 95 

XIII. Vegetables 100 

XIV. Cereals, Macaroni, and Rice 113 

XV. Croquettes and Fritters 120 

XVI. Salads and Salad Dressings 126 

XVII. Yeast Breads, Muffins, and Rolls . . . 138 

XVni. Baking Powder Breads, Muffins, and Biscuit 146 

XIX. Shortcakes and Roulettes 160 

XX. Sandwiches and Toasts 163 

XXI. Griddle Cakes, Waffles, and Sirups . . . 170 

XXII. Cakes and Cookies 174 

XXIII. Icings and Fillings 184 

XXIV. Hot Desserts 189 

XXV. Cold Desserts 196 

XXVI. Frozen Desserts 203 

V 



vl CONTENTS 

CBAPTXB PASS 

XXVII. Sauces for Desserts 209 

XXVIIL Pastries 213 

XXIX. Fruits^ Cooked and Uncooked .... 224 

XXX. Candies 232 

APPENDIX 

A. Table of Weights and Measures .... 239 

B. Time Table for Cooking 240 

0. Temperature Table 243 

D. Table of Caloric Values of Average Portions of 

Food 246 

E. Table of Caloric Values of Raw Food Materials 250 

F. Table of Normal Weights for Men and Women . . 253 

G. List of Government Publications on Foods and 

Cooking 254 

Index 257 



Before using recipes see Special Notice on Page 14. 






BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 



CHAPTER I 
GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 

PLANNING MEALS 

In order to buy, prepare, and serve food to the best pos- 
sible advantage, an elementary knowledge of the composi- 
tion and nutritive value of foods, and the necessary food 
requirement of the family, is essential. Many books are 
published on these subjects, but from the government pub- 
lications alone (see page 255) an excellent working 
knowledge may be obtained. Only the merest outline 
can be given here, and this should be supplemented by 
further reading. 

Briefly stated, food is divided into three chief classes : ^ 
(1) Protein, which builds and repairs the tissues.^ It is 
furnished chiefly by meats, fish, cheese, milk, eggs, cereals, 
and legumes. (2) Fats, which furnish heat and energy, 
but are chiefly valuable for storing a reserve supply of fat 
in the body. They are furnished largely by butter, cream, 
olive and similar vegetable oils, bacon and other fat meats. 
(3) Carbohydrates, which furnish heat and energy. They 

^ Water and mineral salts are also necessary for the proper main- 
tenance of the body, but these are yielded chiefly in combination 
with the other foods. 

' Protein can also furnish energy, but this is more easily and 
cheaply supplied by the fats and carbohydrates. 

1 



2 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

are supplied chiefly by potatoes and other vegetables, 
cereals, fruits, and sugars. 

People who are eating the proper amount and kind of 
food should approximate the normal weight ^ for their 
sex, age, and height. For the proper maintenance of the 
body, a man of average height and weight, of sedentary 
life,^ requires daily food which will yield about 2,500 
calories ; ' a woman of average height and weight, about 
2,300 calories (more or less according to activity). Chil- 
dren between two and five years require from 1,200 to 
1,400 calories ; between five and ten years, from 1,400 to 
1,900 calories ; and from ten to fourteen years, from 1,900 
to 2,500 calories. Girls between fourteen and seventeen 
years require from 2,200 to 2,600 calories; and boys 
between fourteen and seventeen years, from 2,500 to 3,000 
calories. Of the total number of calories furnished ten 
per cent, should be protein, approximately 30 per cent, 
fat, and 60 per cent, carbohydrates. 

Before planning meals the consideration of these caloric 
requirements and the study of the " Caloric Value of 
Average Portions of Food " (Table D, page 245) and of 
the " Fuel Value of Eaw Materials " (Table E, page 250) 
will help in the selection of foods to yield approximately 
the desired amount of nutrition. It is not necessary or de- 
sirable that the exact amount of each class of foods should 
be reckoned daily; but by the general study of foods and 
their nutritive value, and the food requirements of the 

^ See Table F, page 258. 

' People of sedentary life require daily approximately sixteen 
calories for each pound of their weight. So if the normal weight 
of such persons is multiplied by sixteen, the result will be the ap- 
proximate number of calories needed. 

' A Calorie is the amount of heat required to raise one kilogram of 
water 1^ Centigrade or one pound of water 4° Fahrenheit. 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 8 

body, which vary with age, sex, and conditions, the house- 
keeper may serve her family with the kinds and amount of 
food best suited to their needs. She should plan to use in 
a week as large a variety of food as possible, and to avoid 
an excess of any one class. With a definite idea of the 
needs of the family, she should take account of the stock 
in the ice-box and pantry, and see that every bit of food 
is utilized to advantage. Meals should be planned in detail 
at least one day in advance, and, if possible, outlined for 
several days ahead; though these plans must, of course, 
be varied slightly, at times, according to the amount of 
left-over material and the exigencies of supply and de- 
mand. Each day^s programme should be plainly written ; 
any special recipes to be used noted; and a list made of 
supplies to be ordered. To have the meals planned well 
in advance and the order list ready saves a deal of nervous 
energy, time, and money. 

MARKETING 

If possible, attend personally to your marketing and 
consider carefully the quality, quantity, and cost of your 
purchases in relation to the needs of your purse and 
your household. Ask for what you want, and try hard 
to get it ; but in trying to buy supplies at lowest prices be 
sure that the time and nervous energy spent are not out 
of proportion to the amount of money saved. 

MEAT 

In considering the price of meat, the amount of bone, 
fat, gristle, and so forth should be taken into account. 
Many of the coarser and cheaper parts contain as much 



4 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

nutriment as the more expensive cuts, and can, by proper 
cooking, be made fully as palatable. See that every bit of 
left-over meat is used to advantage and in a variety of 
ways ; the rinds of bacon and salt pork when cooked with 
spinach or other greens, or in soups of peas or beans, add 
both flavor and richness. 

THE STOCK POT 

All trimmings and bones, both cooked and uncooked, 
and any left-over bits of meat or gravy that are not needed 
for other dishes, should be put into the stock pot, covered 
with cold water, and simmered (not boiled) with soup 
vegetables and savory herbs for three or four hours. Al- 
most any left-over vegetable can be added, including maca- 
roni, rice, and the scrapings of the cereal cooker. If the 
family is small, the cereal cooker itself makes an excellent 
stock pot: to the remnants of breakfast cereal, add any 
soup material at hand ; cover with cold water ; cook slowly ; 
strain; and, if necessary, add one or two bouillon cubes, 
and a few drops of kitchen bouquet. When soup stock is 
lacking in richness a small amount of gelatine improves the 
quality. 

The water in which vegetables, macaroni, rice, or any 
meats, either fresh or salt, are cooked contains valuable 
mineral matter as well as flavor, and should be added 
wholly or in part to the stock pot Order corned meats 
lightly salted so that all of the stock may be used. Be sure 
that all fat is removed from soup stock before using. Do 
not serve greasy soups. When stock must be used before 
the fat has had time to harden, skim off as much as pos- 
sible, and remove what remains with clean blotting paper, 
or a lump of ice wrapped in cheesecloth. 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 5 

FISH 

Fresh fish is offered in variety at all seasons of the 
year, and is a valuable and comparatively inexpensive 
food; salted and smoked fish contain much protein in a 
concentrated form ; the canned varieties are important, too, 
especially for the emergency shelf, as they furnish a sub- 
stantial, inexpensive food which can be served in many 
ways at short notice. 

GROCERIES 

Groceries in sealed packages are, as a rule, slightly more 
expensive than those sold in bulk; but they are cleaner, 
often fresher, and more convenient to store and use. 

BUTTER AND OTHER SHORTENING 

To the taste of the average person, there is no real 
equivalent for the flavor of fine creamery butter, but, for 
cooking, excellent results may be obtained by the use of 
cheaper shortening, beginning with the common household 
fats which are so often discarded. All drippings from 
the roasts and fat from boiled meats should be carefully 
strained and saved; beef and chicken fat may be used in 
many recipes, including those for cookies, cakes, meat 
sauces, soups, and made dishes ; bacon fat is excellent for 
com cake, meat sauces, and soups of peas, beans, or 
lentils ; sausage fat may be used for gingerbread, cookies, 
poultry stuflSng, and also for frying potatoes and other 
vegetables, for in these the spicy flavoring is not objec- 
tionable. Both bacon and sausage fat and that from soup 
stock are useful for basting lean roasts, fish, or meat loaf. 
Any surplus fat, including that of lamb and mutton, 
should be clarified and added to that in the frying kettle. 



6 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

Fat which cannot be utilized for cooking should be made 
into kitchen soap. 

COOKING FATS— OILS 

There are many excellent brands of wholesome cook- 
ing fats and oils on the market, including peanut, corn, 
and cottonseed oil, and compound vegetable fats. Almost 
any of these costs less than butter. 

OLEOMARGARINE 

The best oleomargarine is wholesome and economical, 
and much to be preferred to inferior grades of butter. 

MILK 

Milk, even at present prices, gives good return in food 
value. Unsweetened evaporated milk, which is absolutely 
sterile and clean, costs no more, and in some places costs 
less, than fresh milk, and can be used to advantage to sup- 
plement the supply. Because of its consistency it is an 
excellent substitute for cream in frozen desserts. 

CREAM 

When eggs are relatively cheaper than cream, the 
stiffly beaten white of an egg may be used to advantage 
to mix with beaten cream. Thin cream whipped with a 
whip churn is lighter and less expensive than heavy cream 
beaten. 

EGGS 

Unless the winter's supply of eggs has been preserved 
in water glass, guaranteed cold storage eggs will be found 
satisfactory, and much cheaper than hennery eggs. Only 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 7 

enough for a few days should be bought at a time, however, 

and they should be kept in a cold place until used. Wash 

eggs before breaking, and save the shells for clearing boiled 

coffee, soup, and aspic. For coating croquettes, dilute each 

beaten egg with one-fourth cup of water or one-third 

cup of milk; cover unused yolks with water to prevent 

drying, and pour off water before using. Have both yolk 

and white of egg cold, so that they may be beaten more 

quickly ; add a pinch of salt to whites of eggs which are to 

be beaten stiff, and beat in a current of air. Soft-boiled 

or dropped eggs not used at table should be put back in 

boiling water, cooked hard, and used for garnishing, egg 

sauce, etc. 

CHEESE 

Cheese is nutritious and, even at present prices, eco- 
nomical, as it contains a large proportion of protein in con- 
centrated form. It can be successfully combined with 
many other foods, and every left-over bit should be so 
used; when partly dry it should be put through the food 
chopper, using a fine cutter; when very dry it should be 
grated and used in sauces, souffles, soups, and many other 
dishes. Cheese is more readily digested if a pinch of 
baking soda is cooked with it. To keep cheese moist and 
fresh, brush the cut surface with melted parafiin. Save 
left-over Welsh rarebit for sandwich filling. The shells 
of Edam or pineapple cheeses should not be thrown away, 
but be filled with creamed macaroni, spaghetti, or rice, 
covered with crumbs, and baked in a hot oven. 

FRESH VEGETABLES 

A variety of vegetables should be served daily, and those 
which contain a large amount of protein, such as beans, 



8 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

lentils, and peas, should be used not only as an accompani- 
ment to meat, but, in combination with other vegetables, 
sauces, bacon or other fats, as the substantial dish of the 

meal. ^ 

DRIED VEGETABLES 

Dried vegetables should be soaked in cold water for 
twelve hours or longer, and then cooked slowly until ten- 
der; dried julienne should be soaked for twenty-four hours 
before cooking. 

MACARONI, NOODLES, RICE, CEREALS 

Macaroni, noodles and similar pastes, rice, and the 
cereals furnish much nutriment at low cost ; oatmeal and 
corn meal are among our cheapest foods. 

Eeady cooked cereals, though they are convenient and 
give variety to the diet, are more expensive than raw 
cereals well cooked ; not only do they yield less food value, 
but, being dry, they require more cream or milk to make 
them palatable. 

LEFT-OVER VEGETABLES 

Left-over vegetables and cereals, even in small quantities, 
should be saved for use in entrees, desserts, salads, sauces, 
and soups. Celery tops should be saved for flavoring and 
garnishing, the root stalk chopped and added to the stock 
pot, and the outside stalks stewed, creamed, or used for 
cream soup. The outside leaves of lettuce should be 
shredded for salad, or, for any large quantity, cooked the 
same as spinach. 

CANNED VEGETABLES 

The flavor of canned vegetables is improved if, before 
being cooked, they are rinsed with cold water and exposed 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 9 

to the air. Parsley and chives may be kept growing in 
pots in the kitchen window to be used as needed. 

SALADS 

Salads should be freely used at all seasons, and be made 
light or nourishing according to the foods served with 
them. They offer an opportunity to the housekeeper to 
exercise her ingenuity in combining various vegetables, 
meats, and fruits, especially left-over bits. Crisp white 
cabbage, shredded, may be used in place of celery. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

Salad dressings need not necessarily be made of olive 
oil, for there are other good and less expensive vegetable 
oils well worth using, and many of the cooked salad dress- 
ings without oil are excellent. 

BREAD 

Various kinds of bread should be freely used, especially 
whole wheat and other cereal breads, and those containing 
raisins, dates, and prunes. Watch the bread-box, and see 
that every bit of bread is used in some way; the unused 
crusts should be dried, rolled, sifted, and kept in a covered 
jar for stuffing, crumbing croquettes, brown bread, pud- 
dings, or other dishes in which the color is not objection- 
able ; cold toast or cut slices should be made into croutons, 
or used for canapes or French toast ; other pieces should be 
used for croustades, or made into crumbs, both coarse and 
fine, for use in fondues, griddle cakes, omelets, sauces, and 
soups. Bits of crackers should be dried, rolled, and used 
the same as bread crumbs. 



pan 
mei 
des! 
fru 

is ; 

fro 
the 



10 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

CAKE 

pea( 

None of the recipes for cake require more than two ^^^ 
eggs ; many, only one ; and some, none at all. Water may j^j 
always be used in place of milk, and any clean, fresh 
shortening may be substituted for butter, especially in the 
recipes which include molasses and spices. These cakes 
will not keep moist like richer cakes, however, and should 
be used soon after making. 

Slices of stale cake and crumbs should be utilized in 

making other desserts in combination with custards, ices, 

preserves, etc. 

BAKING POWDER swi 

Do not use more baking powder than is necessary for *^ 

good results ; two level teaspoons to each cup of flour is the '^^ 

usual allowance, but one and one-half teaspoons each to ^ 

each cup will be suflScient if the muflSns, biscuits, or cake fo 

are quickly and lightly handled and properly baked. m 

. o: 
FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

When volatile flavoring extracts are used in cake, much ' j 
of their strength is wasted during baking; grated rind or ^ 
spices could well be used in their place, or only the icing i 
or filling flavored. All desserts, whenever practicable, 
should be flavored when cold. 

COLORING 

The small package of red coloring which comes with 
gelatine is useful for coloring cakes, icings, and other des- 
serts as well as jellies. 

FRUITS 

Fruits, either fresh, dried, or preserved, should be 
served at least once a day ; dried fruits, such as apricots^ 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 11 

peaches, and prunes, should be soaked in cold water for 
twelve hours or longer and then cooked slowly until tender. 
Baisins, dates, and figs yield a large food value at com- 
paratively low cost. Bananas, which contain more nutri- 
ment than most fresh fruits, should be used for salads or 
desserts when the other courses are light. In cooking acid 
fruits, such as cranberries, plums, and cherries, less sugar 
is required if added after cooking. Parings and cores 
from quinces and apples can be made into excellent jelly ; 
the rinds of watermelons are the foundation of a delicious 
sweet pickle ; orange and grape fruit peel, when candied, 
are well worth the trouble of making. Surplus orange, 
lemon, and grape fruit peels, when dried, are not only use- 
ful for flavoring, but make an interesting and aromatic fuel 
for the fire-place ; the nut meat found in prune stones tastes 
much like that of bitter almonds and can be used in place 
of them. 

When making jelly remember that the pulp of the fruit 
after the juice has dripped from it may be made into 
excellent marmalade: cover with water, heat to boiling 
point, press through a sieve, add three-quarters of the 
amount of sugar, and cook until thick. 

CANDIES 

In spite of its cost, candy is now classed by many with 
the necessities rather than with the luxuries. After a 
little practice even the most elaborate candies can be suc- 
cessfully made at home, and the difference Between the 
cost of a pound of the best ready-made candy and the 
cost of the raw materials is astonishing. For those who 
can spare the time, candy-making will prove both f ascinat- 



12 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

ing and economical. Eecipes for a few after-dinner candies 
are given. 

CONDIMENTS 

A small supply of condiments and relishes, including 
kitchen houquet, ketchup, and sweet herbs, and one or two 
table sauces, should be kept in stock, as they make possible 
a greater variety of flavors. Many home-made sauces and 
relishes can be easily and quickly prepared and are usually 
much cheaper than the ready-made varieties. 

CANDLE STUBS 

Candle stubs should be melted, strained through cheese- 
cloth, and used for sealing ketchup, jellies, and preserves. 

GARNISHINGS 

Any dish, attractively garnished and served, pleases the 
eye, stimulates the appetite, and often lifts a simple meal 
out of the commonplace. Parsley, mint, celery tops, red 
and green peppers, olives, pickles, capers, cooked beets and 
carrots, hard-cooked egg, lemon cut in various shapes, 
nuts, cherries, and other small fruits are all effective if 
not too lavishly used. 

UTENSILS 

A reasonable equipment of kitchen utensils and a con- 
venient, systematic arrangement of them will save time and 
strength. Kitchen scales are almost indispensable, and a 
cooking thermometer eliminates guesswork, especially in 
boiling sugar and heating fat for frying. Pans, molds, 
and cutters of various shapes prevent monotony ; suitable 
baking dishes and covered casserole dishes simplify both 
cooking and serving; and food cooked or served in individ- 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS FOR ECONOMY 18 

ual dishes is often mbre attractive. When the cogs of the 
egg beater slip, do not discard it, but tighten the rivet; 
keep knives well sharpened. Cream jars, jugs, bottles, or 
any other containers for which a charge is made, should be 
promptly returned to be credited. 

FUEL 

Do not waste fuel; concentrate your cooking; when a 
hot oven is needed for roasting meat or baking bread, plan 
to cook at the same time other things which require a high 
temperature; potatoes can be cooked in the pan with the 
meat; other vegetables and fruits can be cooked in the 
oven; and if a coal fire is used, a variety of food can be 
cooked in a steamer on top of the range without extra fuel. 

Have the ashes sifted and save the cinders, which yield 
a quick top heat. 

Economize gas by using the minimum amount necessary 
to keep food cooking at the desired temperature. When 
the boiling point is reached a small supply of gas will 
maintain the temperature. 

Fireless cookers save much fuel and unnecessary heat, 
and are especially useful for any food which requires 
long, slow cooking, or for those foods of strong odor which 
so often scent up the whole house. 



SPECIAL NOTICE 

• 

All ingredients in these recipes should be measured level, 
and the standard teaspoon, tablespoon, and half -pint meas- 
uring cup should be used. 

Unless otherwise stated, one apple, onion, orange, etc., 
means one of medium size. 

Sift flour before measuring, and fill cup lightly. Use 
pastry flour, unless otherwise directed, for thickening 
soups and sauces, and in all recipes where baking powder 
is used ; use bread flour in all recipes where yeast is used. 

The majority of these recipes are planned to serve four 
persons; those for chowders and other dishes which form 
the substantial part of tjie meal are sufficient for second 
helpings; those for cakes, muffins, and other breads are 
large enough to be served more than once. 



14 



CHAPTER n 
COMMON WAYS OF COOKING FOOD 

Baking is cooking in confined heat in the oven. Examples : 
bread, cake, meat. This method when applied to 
meat is commonly called roasting. Before baking, see 
that the oven is clean and heated to the desired tem- 
perature. 

Boiling is cooking by immersion in water at 212** F. Ex- 
amples: potatoes, cabbage, macaroni. 

Braising is a combination of stewing on the top of the 
range, and baking in the oven, with or without vege- 
tables. Examples : tough meats, fowl, whole liver. 

Broiling or Orilling is cooking over or under direct heat, 
as over glowing coals or under a gas flame. Examples : 
steak, chops. 

Fricasseeing is commonly a combination of stewing and 
sauteing. Examples: fowl, forequarter of lamb or 
veal. 

Frying is cooking by immersion in hot deep fat. Ex- 
amples: doughnuts, croquettes. 

Pan-baking or Panrbroiling is cooking in a lightly greased 
or ungreased hot frying pan or griddle. Examples: 
steak, English muffins, griddle cakes. 

Pot Roasting is cooking in an iron kettle or earthen pot in 
a small amount of water, after meat has been quickly 
browned in a small amount of fat in the frying pan 

15 



16 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

or kettle. Cook slowly until very tender, with or 
without vegetables. 

Roasting is cooking before an open fire. This method is 
seldom used in small households, although the baking 
of meats is commonly called roasting. 

Sauteing is cooking in a small amount of fat in a shallow 
pan on top of range. Examples: sliced fish, meat, 
potatoes, eggs. 

Simmering is cooking in liquid at 185** F. The bubbles 
should always be below the surface. Examples : ham, 
corned beef, soups. 

Steaming. Dry Steaming is cooking by heat of steam, 
as in double boiler or tin, over or surrounded by 
boiling water. Examples : rice, brown bread. 
Moist Steaming is cooking by direct contact with steam 
as in a steamer or colander, over boiling water, closely 
covered. Examples : fowl, puddings, dumplings. 

Stewing is cooking slowly in a small amount of water 
(about 160** F.) until food is very tender. Ex- 
amples: beef, Iamb, vegetables. 



CHAPTER III 
APPETIZERS AND RELISHES 

1.— COCKTAIL SAUCE 

y^ cup tomato ketchup ^/^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon bottled 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

horseradish sauce 

2 tablespoons vinegar Dash of cayenne 

Mix, and serve in four small glasses or lemon shells, 
with six small clams or oysters in each. Shrimps, prawns, 
or lobster may be used instead of clams or oysters. 

2.— ASHEVILLE CANAPES 

Peel and cut small tomatoes in quarter-inch slices; cut 
thin rounds of bread the same size as tomatoes; toast 
bread, spread with Mustard Butter (see No. 459), or salad 
dressing, and cover with a slice of tomato ; season lightly 
with salt and pepper, and cover with thin slices of cooked 
chicken livers. Garnish with parsley. 

3.— CLUB CANAPES 

Mix devilled ham with a little grated cheese ; spread on 
thin rounds of brown bread, and mark into quarters with 
finely chopped pickle. Chop fine the white of a hard- 
cooked egg, and cover two opposite quarters; press the 
yolk through a sieve, and cover the remaining quarters. 

17 



18 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

4.^CRAB MEAT CANAPES 

1 cup crab meat 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
y^ teaspoon paprika sauce 

% teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

y^ teaspoon mustard ^ teaspoon horseradish 

Chop crab meat, mix well with seasonings, and spread on 
thin rounds of untoasted brown bread. Garnish with 
small cube of lemon. 

5.— MOCK CRAB CANAPES 

1 cup canned corn % teaspoon paprika 

y^ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon anchovy paste 

2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Use one cup of corn which has been drained from its 
juice; put through food chopper, using the finest cutter; 
add seasonings and cheese, and spread on small rounds of 
toast Garnish with small pickles sliced lengthwise. 

6.— GLOUCESTER CANAP]£s 

Cook a small haddock roe in boiling salted water for 
fifteen minutes, remove skin, mash, add a tablespoon of 
butter, half a teaspoon of anchovy paste, one-fourth tea- 
spoon of paprika, and enough cream to moisten ; add salt 
if necessary. Mound on small rounds of toast^ and gar- 
nish with sliced pickles and parsley. 

7.— TUNA CANAPES 

1 cup tuna fish 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1 tablespoon tomato ketch- % tablespoon olive oil 
up 1/^ teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon paprika 

Chop fish, add seasonings, and spread on small rounds 
of lightly toasted bread. Garnish with sliced pimolas. 



APPETIZERS AND RELISHES 19 

8.— CELERY RELISH 

Cut large white stalks of celery in two-inch lengths, fill 
with cream cheese which has been seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, and Worcestershire sauce. Garnish with a small piece 
of celery top. 

9.— CHEESE AND APPLE RINGS 

1 large tart apple 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
% cup soft cheese cut sauce 

fine Dash of cayenne 

Vs teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons cream 

Pare and core apples, and cut in one-third-inch slices; 

mix cheese with seasonings and cream, beat to a paste, and 

spread or force through a rose tube on apple rings. Dust 

with paprika. 

10.— SPANISH CHEESE 

Cook together one and a half cups of soft or grated 
cheese with one-fourth cup of chili sauce until the cheese 
is melted. Serve immediately on toasted crackers or rounds 
of toast^ as an appetizer or savory. 

ll^CANTALOUPE COCKTAIL 

2 cups cantaloupe Juice of l^ lemon 

% cup preserved ginger 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Cut melon in small cubes, or in balls (using a potato 

cutter). Add chopped ginger, lemon juice, and sugar, and 

serve very cold. 

12.— FRUIT COCKTAIL 

2 tart apples 2 oranges 

1 large banana 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Cut apples and bananas in small cubes; remove pith 
and se^ds from oranges, cut pulp in small pieces, and ^dd 



20 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

with juice to apples and bananas; add lemon juice and 
sugar, place in a shallow dish, and put directly on ice for 
ten minutes to chill ; serve in glasses, and garnish with a 
Preserved Cranberry (see No. 670), or a spoonful of Mock 
Bar-le-Duc (see No. 666). Peeled Tokay or Malaga 
grapes and a little grated pineapple may be added to ad- 
vantage. 

18.— WINTER CHILI SAUCE 

1 can tomatoes 1 teaspoon paprika 

2 onions finely chopped % teaspoon cayenne 
% cup brown sugar % teaspoon cinnamon 
1% teaspoons salt V4, teaspoon clove 

% cup vinegar 

Mix, and simmer about half an hour or until thick. 

14.— PICCALILLI 

3 quarts green tomatoes 1 quart sugar 

3 quarts ripe tomatoes 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 red peppers % teaspoon clove 

3 onions 4 tablespoons white mustard 
% cup salt seed 

2 quarts vinegar 

Put vegetables through the food chopper, using coarse 
cutter ; sprinkle with salt, let stand over night, and drain ; 
add other ingredients, and cook about forty-five minutes. 

15.— TABLE SAUCE 

12 ripe tomatoes 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 onion % teaspoon pepper 

3 green peppers . 1 cup vinegar 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon ground clove 

1% tablespoons salt 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 

2 teaspoons mustard 

Wipe tomatoes, cut in halves, and put in a clean, smooth 
preserving kettle; add onion and peppers sliced, and sea- 



APPETIZERS AND RELISHES «1 

sonings; simmer two hours, and press through a sieve; 
return to kettle, simmer one hour, and seal in jars or 
bottles ; when cool, dip tops in paraffin. This may be used 
in place of ready-made sauce. 

16.— TOMATO KETCHUP 

1 peck ripe tomatoes Vi cup whole mixed spices 
3 onions 1 clove of garlic 

% cup salt % cup dry mustard 

2 teaspoons cayenne 1 quart vinegar 

2 tablespoons paprika 1 cup browH sugar 

Wipe tomatoes, cut in halves, and put in a smooth, clean 
preserving kettle; add onions sliced, cook slowly for one 
hour, and press through a sieve; add salt, cayenne, and 
paprika; tie mixed spices, garlic, and mustard in double 
cheesecloth, add to tomatoes, and cook rapidly until mix- 
ture begins to thicken; boil vinegar and sugar together 
while tomatoes are cooking ; add them to strained tomato ; 
cook until ketchup is thick, or until water will not separate 
from it when tried on a plate. Remove spice bag, seal in 
sterilized jars or bottles, and when cool dip tops in melted 
paraffin. 

17.— SMALL CUCUMBER PICKLES (Gherkins) 

Wash thoroughly, count, and for every hundred cucum- 
bers allow one cup of salt. Cover with boiling water. Let 
stand twenty-four hours ; then drain. Fill quart preserve 
jars with cucumbers, then add two tablespoons of mixed 
whole spices, a piece of alum the size of a pea, and boiling 
vinegar to fill the jar. Seal, and let stand a week before 
using. The boiling water should be measured, as an equal 
amount of vinegar will be needed. 



22 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

18.— PEPPER HASH 

6 green peppers 1 quart vinegar 

6 red peppers 1 cup brown sugar 

6 onions 2 tablespoons salt 

1 small white cabbage 2 tablespoons mustard seed 

Remove seeds from peppers and chop fine with the onion 
and cabbage. Put in cheesecloth, scald with boiling water, 
and squeeze dry; heat vinegar, sugar, salt, and mustard 
seed, add vegetables, and bring to the boiling point. When 
cool, put in a stone crock or small jars. 

19.— PICKLED NASTURTIUM SEEDS 

Into one quart of cider vinegar put three tablespoons 
salt and five or six slices of horseradish root. Pour into 
a jar and cover closely. Add the seeds as they ripen. Use 
in salads, sauces, or for garnishing as a substitute for 
capers. 



CHAPTER IV 
BEVEKAGES 

20.— COFFEE, EGG, AND MILK 

2 eggs 1^ teaspoons instantaneous 

2^ tablespoons sugar coffee 

Few grains salt 3 cups milk 

Beat the eggs until light; add the other ingredients, 
and strain into glasses. Serve very cold. (This recipe 
fills four tumblers.) 

21.— GRAPE JUICE (Unfcrmented) 

Pick over and wash grapes, barely cover with water, 
and cook until soft and white ; drain through cheesecloth, 
and to each quart of juice add one cup each of water and 
sugar ; bring to boiling point, skim, bottle, and cork tightly. 
When cold, dip corks into melted paraffin. 

22.— GRAPE EGGNOG 

1 egg 1 teaspoon powdered sugar 

% cup grape juice % cup milk 

Nutmeg 

Beat egg until very light, add grape juice and sugar, 
and beat again, add milk, beat well, pour into a glass, and 
dust with nutmeg. 

2S 



24 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

23.— GINGER PUNCH 

1^ cups sugar 2 teaspoons Jamaica ginger 

1 quart boiling water ^/^ cup orange juice 

Grated rind 1 lemon % cup lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water with the lemon rind for ten 
minutes ; when cool, add ginger and fruit juice, and strain 
over cracked ice. 

24.— GINGER ALE PUNCH 

% cup mint leaves 1 cup boiling water 

1^ cups sugar 2 pints ginger ale 

Juice of 3 lemons 1 pint grape juice 

Pour boiling water over mint leaves, sugar, and grated 
rind of one lemon, and let stand until cool ; strain into a 
punch bowl containing ice, add ginger ale, grape juice, and 
strained lemon juice; garnish with sprigs of mint. 

25.— MINT JULEP (Ginger Ale) 

% cup sugar Juice of 3 lemons 

1 cup water 4 sprigs mint 

1 pint ginger ale 

Boil sugar and water ten minutes, and cool ; add strained 
lemon juice, mint leaves bruised, and ginger ale; half 
fill glasses with crushed ice, add julep, and garnish with 
a sprig of mint. 

26.— MINT LEMONADE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup mint leaves 

6 cups water Juice of 3 lemons 

Boil sugar and water twenty minutes ; add mint, and let 
stand until cold ; add lemon juice, and strain into glasses 
half filled with cracked ice. Garnish with sprigs of mint. 



BEVERAGES 25 

87.— TEA 

Tea should be made from freshly drawn, freshly 
boiled water, poured over the dry tea, which has been put 
into a clean, scalded teapot. Cover with a cozy or stand 
on back of range for three or four minutes. Allow from a 
half to a full teaspoon of tea to each cup, according to 
the variety used. The finer varieties made from the first 
pickings require less than the coarser kinds. Be sure that 
tea does not boil. Serve with sugar, cream, lemon, cloves, 
mints, ginger, or bits of candied fruit. 

28.— ICED TEA 

Fill a large glass two-thirds full with cracked ice, add 
two thin slices of lemon with seeds removed, two teaspoons 
of powdered sugar, and fill with freshly made hot tea. 
One or two mint leaves may be added. 

29.— FILTERED COFFEE 

% cup pulverized coffee 4 cups boiling water 

Put coffee into bag or filter, add boiling water gradu- 
ally; pour through a second time, or even a third time if 
liked strong. Do not boil. Serve with hot milk and cream. 
Wash coffee pot and bag thoroughly, and dry in the sun if 
possible ; renew bag often. 

30.— AFTER-DINNER COFFEE 

% cup pulverized coffee 2 cups boiling water 

Put coffee into a filter coffee pot, add boiling water, 
and filter three times. Serve very hot. 



26 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

31.— CAF]£ AU LAIT 

To recipe for After-dinner Coffee (see No. 30) add one 
and a half cups of hot milk. 

82.— COCOA 

4 teaspoons cocoa Vs teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 cups boiling water 

2 cups hot milk 

Mix cocoa, sugar, salt, and boiling water, and boil five 

minutes; add hot milk, and beat with egg beater until 

frothy. 

33.— CHOCOLATE 

ll^ squares chocolate Vs teaspoon salt 

% cup sugar 2 cups boiling water 

2 cups hot milk 

Melt chocolate in a saucepan over hot water ; add sugar, 
salt, and boiling water; stir well, and boil five minutes; 
add hot milk, and beat with egg beater until frothy. 
Evaporated milk makes excellent chocolate or cocoa. For 
marshmallow chocolate put two marshmallows in each 
cup and pour hot chocolate over them. 



CHAPTER V 
SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 

84.— ASPARAGUS SOUP 

When fresh asparagus is served as a vegetable, cook 
the tough ends in the same water, which should be lightly 
salted. Press through a sieve, add the water, and for each 
three cups add one-half teaspoon of onion juice and one 
cup of hot milk. Thicken with one tablespoon of butter 
and two tablespoons of flour blended together. Add pep- 
per, and salt if necessary. 

85.— PUR^E OF BLACK BEANS 



1 cup black beans 


^ teaspoon paprika 


1 quart cold water 


^ teaspoon mustard 


1 slice bacon 


1 tablespoon bacon fat 


% onion 


1 tablespoon flour 


1 teaspoon salt 


1 hard-cooked egg 




Lemon slices 



Soak beans over night in cold water; drain; add one 
quart of water, bacon, and onion, and cook three hours or 
until beans are soft, replacing water which cooks away; 
press through a sieve; add seasonings, and thicken with 
bacon fat and flour blended together. Serve with a thin 
slice of egg and lemon in each plate. Corned beef stock 
is an excellent substitute for water, but if it is used salt 
should be omitted. 

87 



28 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

36.— BAKED BEAN SOUP 

2 cups cold baked beans 1 tablespoon butter 

1% cups tomatoes 2 tablespoons flour 

2 slices onion % teaspoon salt 

4 cups cold water % teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon tomato ketchup 

Simmer beans, tomatoes, onion, and water for half an 
hour, and press through a sieve; thicken with butter and 
flour blended together; add seasonings, and serve with 
fried croutons. 

37.— PURINE OF RED KIDNEY BEANS 

Follow recipe for Puree of Black Beans (see No. 35), 
using red kidney beans in place of black beans. 

38.— DRIED LIMA BEAN SOUP 

1 cup lima beans ^ 1 cup milk 

6 cups cold water 1 teaspoon salt 

% onion sliced 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

% carrot sliced sauce 

% bay leaf 1 tablespoon bacon fat 

2 tablespoons flour 

Soak beans over night; drain; add cold water, onion, 
carrot, and bay leaf, and simmer an hour and a half or 
until beans are soft ; press through a sieve, add milk and 
seasonings, and thicken with bacon fat and flour blended 
together. Serve with croutons. 

39.— CAULIFLOWER SOUP 

To three cups of the water in which cauliflower has been 
cooked add one-half teaspoon of onion juice and one cup of 
hot milk. Thicken with one tablespoon of butter and two 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 29 

tablespoons of flour blended together. Season with cay- 
enne, and salt if necessary. Add a few left-over bits of 
cauliflower, and serve with croutons or crisp crackers. 



40.— CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

1 cup celery tops IV2 teaspoons salt 
V2 cup chopi)ed celery % teaspoon pepper 

2 slices onion 3V^ cups boiling water 
y^ cup rice 1^/^ cups hot milk 

% tablespoon butter 

Cook celery, onion, rice, seasonings, and boiling water 
for half an hour ; press through a sieve ; add hot milk and 
butter, and serve with crisp crackers. 



41.— CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

1 can com 1 teaspoon salt 

% onion % teaspoon paprika 

2 cups boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 
2 cups hot milk 2 tablespoons flour 

Chop corn and onion, add water, and simmer twenty 
minutes; press through a sieve, forcing through all the 
corn possible ; add milk and seasonings, and thicken with 
butter and flour blended together. 

42.— CHEESE SOUP 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons flour 

2 cups boiling water % cup grated cheese 

1 onion sliced 1 egg well beaten 

% bay leaf 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter Dash of cayenne 

Scald milk, water, onion, and bay leaf twenty minutes ; 
skim out onion and bay leaf, thicken milk with butter and 



so BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

flour cooked together ; add cheese, egg, and seasonings, and 
stir until cheese melts. 



48.— FRUIT SOUP 

3 pears Juice of ^/^ lemon 

3 apples Ys teaspoon cinnamon 

4 cups boiling water 3 tablespoons honey or 

1 tablespoon granulated sugar 

tapioca 

Chop fruit, add water, cook until tender, and press 
through a sieve; add tapioca, and cook until clear; add 
lemon juice, cinnamon, and honey. Serve hot or cold with 
toast sticks. 

44.—OATMEAL SOUP 

% cup cooked oatmeal 2 cups hot milk 

y2 onion sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cloves Ys teaspoon celery salt 
% bay leaf % teaspoon pepper 

2 cups boiling water % tablespoon butter 

Cook oatmeal, onion, cloves, and bay leaf in boiling 
water for twenty minutes, and press through a sieve ; add 
milk, seasonings, and butter, and serve with croutons. 

45.— POTATO SOUP 

3 potatoes sliced 1^ teaspoons salt 
% cup celery tops %, teaspoon pepper 
% onion 2 cups hot milk 

2 cups boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Cook potatoes, celery, onion, and water twenty minutes ; 
press through a sieve; add seasonings and hot milk, and 
thicken with butter and flour blended together. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT 81 

46.— CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

1 can peas l^A teaspoons salt 

1 slice onion % teaspoon pepper 

Bit of bay leaf 2 cups boiling water 

Sprig of parsley 2 cups hot milk 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

2 tablespoons flour 

Rinse the peas with cold water, and reserve one-fourth 
cup ; simmer the remainder with seasonings and hot water 
for twenty minutes, and press through a sieve; thicken 
the milk with butter and flour blended together, and add to 
pefts. Add the whole peas just before serving. 

47.— PUR^E OF SPLIT PEAS 

% cup split peas 1 cup hot milk 

4 cups water or ham stock Vs teaspoon pepper 

2 slices onion 1 tablespoon bacon fat 

1 tablespoon flour 

Soak peas over night in cold water, and drain ; add water 
or stock, and onion, and simmer about three hours or until 
peas are soft ; press through a sieve ; add milk and pepper, 
and thicken with bacon fat and flour blended together. 
Serve with croutons. If water is used in place of stock, 
add two slices of bacon and one and a quarter teaspoons 
of salt. 

48.— RICE AND TOMATO SOUP 
1 can tomatoes 1 tablespoon sugar 



% onion 


2 cups boiling water 


% bay leaf 


Ys teaspoon soda 


3 cloves 


2 tablespoons bacon fat 


1 teaspoon salt 


2 tablespoons flour 


y^ teaspoon paprika 


% cup cooked rice 



Simmer tomatoes, seasonings, and water half an hour; 



S^ BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

press through a sieve, and add soda; melt bacon fat, and 
cook with flour until brown; add to soup, and stir until 
smooth ; add rice, and serve. 

49.— TOMATO BISQUE 

2 cups tomatoes 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 slice onion 1% teaspoons salt 
Bit of bay leaf Vs teaspoon pepper 

2 cloves 3 cups hot milk 

1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons butter 

y^ teaspoon soda 3 tablespoons flour 

Simmer tomatoes, onion, bay leaf, cloves, and water for 
twenty minutes, and press through a sieve ; add soda, sugar, 
salt, and pepper ; thicken milk with butter and flour blended 
together, and add to tomato just before serving. Serve 
with croutons. 

50.— TOMATO BOUILLON 

1 can tomatoes 6 cloves 

2 cups water % bay leaf 

% cup onion 1% teaspoons salt 

% cup carrot Dash of cayenne 

1 cup celery tops 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 tablespoons tomato ketchup 

Simmer all ingredients except tomato ketchup for half 
an hour, strain through double cheesecloth, add ketchup, 
and serve either very hot or very cold. The tomato pulp 
should be pressed through a sieve and used for flavoring 
other soups or sauces. 



SOUPS WITHOUT MEAT S3 

51.— TOMATO AND OATMEAL SOUP 

% can tomatoes % cup rolled oats 

3 cups hot water 1 teaspoon salt 

2 slices onion 1 teaspoon sugar 
y^ bay leaf % teaspoon soda 

3 cloves y% teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon butter 

Heat tomatoes, water, onion, bay leaf, and cloves to 
boiling point ; add oatmeal gradually, and cook for forty- 
five minutes; press through a sieve; add seasonings and 
butter, and serve with croutons. 



52.— TOMATO AND PEANUT SOUP 

1^/^ cups stewed and % teaspoon salt 

strained tomatoes % teaspoon paprika 
% cup peanut butter 2% cups boiling water 

Add tomatoes gradually to peanut butter, and when 
smooth add seasonings and water ; simmer ten minutes, and 
serve with croutons. Well seasoned soup stock may be 
substituted for the water ; if so, use less salt. 

58.— WINSOR SOUP 

2 potatoes 1% cups hot milk 

1 white turnip 1 tablespoon butter 
*/4 cup celery tops 2 tablespoons flour 

2 slices onion 1^/2 teaspoons salt 
2V^ cups boiling water % teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons tomato ketchup 

Pare and slice potatoes and turnip, add celery tops, 
onion, and boiling water, cook half an hour, and press 
through a sieve; add hot milk, thicken with butter and 
flour blended together, season, and serve with croutons. 



34 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

54.— VEGETABLE SOUP 

V2 cup leeks 3 cups boiling water 

% cup carrots 1 cup half -inch potato cubes 

1 cup cabbage 1 cup hot milk 

2 tablespoons beef drip- 1 teaspoon salt 

pings V4, teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley 

Cut leeks into slices, carrots and cabbage into small 
pieces, or put through the food chopper, and cook in beef 
drippings for ten minutes, stirring often; add boiling 
water and potatoes, and cook twenty minutes, or until vege- 
tables are tender ; add milk and seasonings, and serve with 
croutons. 



CHAPTER VI 
SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 

55.— CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP 

3 cups chicken stock Salt 

1 slice onion Vs teaspoon pepper 

% cup celery tops 2 tablespoons chicken fat or 

1 cup hot milk butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

Cook stock, onion, and celery for fifteen minutes, and 
strain; add hot milk and seasonings, and thicken with 
chicken fat and flour blended together. The amount of 
salt will depend upon the quantity in the stock. Celery 
salt may be used in place of celery tops. 

56.— CHICKEN AND OKRA SOUP 

1 quart chicken stock % green pepper chopped 

1 tablespoon grated onion 1 cup tomatoes 
Ys teaspoon celery salt ^/^ can okra 

2 tablespoons rice 

Heat stock to boiling point, add other ingredients, and 
simmer half an hour or until rice is tender. Add salt if 
necessary. Ham stock in place of chicken stock makes 
an excellent soup. 



W 



36 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

57.— CLAM BISQUE 

1 pint clams 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup water % teaspoon pepper 

1 slice onion 2 cups hot milk 

Vs teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon butter 

^ teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons flour 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Remove necks and gills from clams, and chop fine; sim- 
mer with the soft part of clams, water, and onion for fif- 
teen minutes; add soda and seasonings; thicken the milk 
with the butter and flour cooked together; add to clams, 
sprinkle with parsley, and serve at once. 

58.— CLAM BOUILLON 

1 pint clams % teaspoon salt 

2 cups cold water V^ teaspoon celery salt 

Dash of cayenne 

Chop clams, add cold water, and simmer fifteen minutes ; 
add seasonings, and strain through double cheesecloth. 
Serve in cups with or without whipped cream; or pour 
over the stiffly beaten white of one egg. 

59.— CLEAR SOUP 

^^ cup chopped carrot • 1 quart boiling water 

% cup chopped onion 1 teaspoon beef extract 

% cup chopped turnip 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cloves Dash of cayenne 

Small bit bay leaf Few drops kitchen bouquet 

Cook vegetables, cloves, bay leaf, and water for half 
an hour, and strain through double cheesecloth. Add 
extract, salt, cayenne, and kitchen bouquet. Four bouillon 
cubes may be used in place of extract, and the salt, cayenne, 
ftftd bouquet omitted, 



SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 87 

60.-^JULI£NNE SOUP (Bouillon Cubes) 

2 tablespoons onion Y^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons carrot 4 cups boiling water 

2 tablespoons white turnip 3 bouillon cubes 

Cut vegetables into fine shreds an inch long, add salt 
and boiling water, and cook until tender; add bouillon 
cubes, and salt if necessary. Two tablespoons of tomato 
ketchup may be added. 

61.— MOCK TURTLE SOUP 

2 pounds knuckle of veal 2 teaspoons salt 

% pound liver % teaspoon pepper 

1 onion 2 tablespoons beef drippings 

1 carrot 4 tablespoons flour 
V2 hay leaf 1 teaspoon sugar 

% cup celery tops 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 quarts water % teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

1 hard-cooked egg 

Wash meat, add vegetables cut fine, and boiling water, 
and cook slowly for four hours ; remove meat, strain stock, 
remove fat, and add salt and pepper ; cook drippings, flour, 
and sugar together until brown; add to stock, and stir 
until smooth; add vinegar, kitchen bouquet, and onehalf 
cup each of liver and veal cut in small pieces. Serve a 
slice of egg in each plate. The left-over meat may be used 
for hash, croquettes, etc. 

62.— MUSHROOM SOUP 

y^ pound mushrooms % teaspoon pepper 

3 cups stock Salt 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup hot milk 4 tablespoons flour 

Wash mushrooms, chop stems, simmer with stock and 
onion for twenty minutes, and press through a sieve. 



38 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

reserving two or three whole caps ; add milk, pepper, and 
salt if necessary; thicken with butter and flour blended 
together. Cut mushroom caps into bits, and add to soup. 

63.— ONION SOUP 

1 slice bacon 2 cups hot milk 

3 onions sliced 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 green pepper chopped Dash of cayenne 

fine 1 tablespoon bacon fat 

1 sprig parsley 2 tablespoons flour 

1 clove 2 tablespoons grated 

2 cups boiling water cheese 

Cut bacon in small pieces and cook with onions and green 
pepper five minutes ; add parsley, clove, and boiling water ; 
simmer half an hour, and press through a sieve ; add milk 
and seasonings, and thicken with bacon fat and flour 
blended together ; add cheese just before serving. 

64.— OYSTER STEW 

1 quart oysters IV2 teaspoons salt 

1 quart milk % teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons butter 

Pick over oysters to remove bits of shell, and cook in 
their own liquor until plump, skimming when necessary; 
scald milk, add seasonings and butter, and mix with oys- 
ters. Serve with oyster crackers. 

65.— OYSTER AND CELERY BOUILLON 

1 cup chopped celery tops 1 pint small oysters 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon salt 

V2 bay leaf % teaspoon paprika 

3 cups boiling water White of 1 egg 

Simmer celery, onion, bay leaf, and water for fifteen 
minutes; add oysters finely chopped, and simmer ten 



SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 39 

minutes; strain through double cheesecloth; season with 

salt and paprika^ and pour over the stiffly beaten white of 

egg. Serve in cups. Or serve without the egg, put a 

spoonful of whipped cream in each cup, and sprinkle with 

paprika. 

66.— SALMON BISQUE 

1 small can salmon 2 cups hot milk 

2 cups water 1 tablespoon butter 

1 slice onion 2 tablespoons flour 
Bit of bay leaf 1 teaspoon salt 

Ys teaspoon pepper 

Separate salmon into flakes, add water, onion, and bay 
leaf; simmer for fifteen minutes, and remove onion and 
bay leaf; scald milk, thicken with butter and flour blended 
together; add seasonings, and mix with salmon. Serve 
with oyster crackers. 

67.— SOUP STOCK 

Use the liquid in which any meat has been cooked. Sea- 
son well with vegetables; if brown stock is wanted, add 
a small amount of kitchen bouquet or caramel, and a little 
beef or vegetable- extract. (See suggestions for the Stock 
Pot, page 4.) 

68.— TOMATO TAPIOCA SOUP 

2 cups tomato 1% teaspoons salt 

3 cups hot water % teaspoon pepper 
1 slice onion 1 teaspoon sugar 

V2 bay leaf 2 cubes beef extract 

4 cloves 2 tablespoons granulated tapioca 

Mix the tomato and seasonings with the hot water ; sim- 
mer for fifteen minutes, and rub through a sieve; add 
beef extract and tapioca, and cook fifteen minutes. Serve 
with croutons. 



40 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

69.— TUNA FISH SOUP 

2 tablespoons grated carrot ^/4 teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon grated onion 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

2 cups boiling water % teaspoon Worcestershire 
2 cups hot milk sauce 

% cup sifted crumbs 1 cup tuna fish 

1 teaspoon salt % tablespoon butter 

Cook vegetables, water, and milk in the double boiler 
for twenty minutes; add crumbs, seasonings, tuna fish 
separated into flakes, and butter; cook five minutes, 

70.— BEEF STEW 

2 pounds shoulder trim- 1 white turnip 

mings 3 potatoes sliced 

2 quarts boiling water 1 cup tomatoes 

1 onion 2^^ teaspoons salt 

1 carrot Vs teaspoon pepper 

% cup flour 

Cut beef in pieces for serving, add water, and simmer 
two hours ; put onion, carrot, and turnip through the food 
chopper, using coarse cutter, and add to meat ; add pota- 
toes, tomatoes, and seasonings, and cook forty-five minutes ; 
thicken with flour mixed to a paste with cold water. Serve 
with Dumplings (see No. 72). 

71.— IRISH STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

2 pounds forequarter lamb 1 onion 
2 quarts boiling water 1 carrot 

2 teaspoons salt 1 small white turnip 

Ys teaspoon pepper 4 potatoes 

4 tablespoons flour 

Cut meat in small pieces, and trim off most of fat ; cover 
with boiling water, and simmer for one hour ; add salt and 



SOUPS AND STEWS WITH MEAT OR FISH 41 

pepper, onion, carrot, and turnip cut in small cubes, and 
cook one hour ; pare and slice potatoes, add to stew, and 
cook twenty minutes ; thicken with flour mixed to a paste 
with cold water; add Dumplings (see No. 72), cover, and 
cook twelve minutes. 

TS^DUMPLINGS 

1 cup flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

y^ teaspoon salt ^/^ cup milk or water 

Sift flour, salt, and baking powder, and mix to a soft 
dough with milk; drop by spoonfuls upon boiling stew; 
cover closely, and cook twelve minutes. 

73.— LAMB BROTH WITH SPAGHETTI 

1 quart lamb stock 1 tablespoon chopped carrot 

% cup tomato % teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon chopped % cup spaghetti 

onion 1 cup bits of lamb 

Kemove fat from stock ; add vegetables, pepper, and (if 
necessary) salt ; heat to boiling point, add spaghetti, and 
cook half an hour. Add meat just before serving. 

74.— SCOTCH BROTH 

2 pounds neck of mutton 2 white turnips 
2% quarts cold water 2 carrots 

y^ cup pearl barley 2 teaspoons salt 

2 onions ^ teaspoon pepper 

Wash mutton, cover with cold water, heat to boiling 
point, and simmer slowly for two hours; let stand over 
night. Soak barley in cold water over night. In the 
morning, remove fat from stock, remove meat from bones, 



42 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

and strain stock; if water has evaporated, add enough to 
make two and a half quarts; heat stock to boiling point, 
add seasonings, barley, and vegetables, which have been 
pared and cut into small cubes. Cook for one hour, add 
meat, and cook slowly one hour longer. 



CHAPTER Vn 
CHOWDEES 

75.— CLAM CHOWDER 

% cup half -inch cubes 1 quart clams 

salt pork 1^ teaspoons salt 

1 onion sliced % teaspoon pepper 

2 cups boiling water 3 cups hot milk 

4 cups potatoes cut in ^ cup sifted crumbs 

half -inch cubes 

Cook salt pork and onion slowly for ten minutes; add 
boiling water, and strain into chowder kettle ; add potatoes, 
and cook twenty minutes; remove necks of clams, chop 
fine, add with the soft part to the potatoes, and cook ten 
minutes ; add seasonings, hot milk, and crumbs, and serve 
with pilot crackers. The salt pork and onion may be served 
in the chowder if preferred. 

76.— CORN CHOWDER 

% cup half -inch cubes % teaspoon celery salt 

salt pork 1% teaspoons salt 

1 onion sliced ^ teaspoon paprika 

3 cups boiling water 1 can corn chopped 
3 cups thinly sliced 2 cups hot milk 

potatoes 6 common crackers split 

Cook salt pork and onion together slowly for ten min- 
utes ; add boiling water, and strain into chowder kettle ; 
add potatoes and seasonings, and cook about fifteen min- 
utes or until potatoes are tender ; put com into a strainer, 

48 



44 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

drain the juice into the kettle, and chop the corn, using 
finest cutter ; add to chowder ; add hot milk and crackers ; 
and cook five minutes. The bits of pork and onion may be 
left in the chowder if desired. 

77.— CORN AND TOMATO CHOWDER 

y^ pound salt pork 2 teaspoons salt 

chopped fine ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 onion chopped fine % can corn 
1 green pepper shredded 2 cups hot milk 

3 cups boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

% can tomatoes 2 tablespoons flour 

3 potatoes sliced 6 common crackers split 

Cook pork,- onion, and pepper slowly for ten minutes ; 
add water, tomatoes, potatoes, salt, and pepper, and cook 
until potatoes are tender ; add corn and milk, and thicken 
with butter and flour blended together. Add crackers 
(which have been moistened in cold water), and simmer 
for five minutes. 

78.— FISH CHOWDER 

3 pounds haddock 2 teaspoons salt 
% cup half -inch cubes % teaspoon pepper 

salt pork 1 tablespoon butter 

1 onion sliced 3 tablespoons flour 

1 quart cold water 2 cups hot milk 

4 cups thinly sliced 6 common crackers split 

potatoes 

Order skin and bones removed from fish at market, and 
have them delivered with fish and head; cook salt pork 
and onion together slowly for ten minutes ; add fish head, 
skin, and bones, cover with cold water; cook for twenty 
minutes, and strain into chowder kettle ; add the fish (cut 
in two-inch pieces), potatoes, salt, and pepper, and cook 



CHOWDERS 45 

twenty minutes ; thicken milk with butter and flour blended 
together, and mix with chowder; add crackers (which have 
been moistened in cold water) , and cover for five minutes. 
Cod, hake, white fish, or any firm fish may be used in 
of haddock. 

79.— OYSTER CHOWDER 

3 potatoes cut in half- 3 cups boiling water 

inch cubes 1 pint small oysters 

1 onion chopped fine IVi teaspoons salt 
y^ cup celery chopped fine y% teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons bacon fat 2 cups hot milk 

^ cup sifted crumbs 

Cook potatoes, onion, celery, and bacon fat in boiling 
water for fifteen minutes; add oysters, salt and pepper, 
and cook five minutes; skim; add hot milk and crumbs, 
and serve with pilot crackers. 

80.— POTATO CHOWDER 

Follow recipe for Corn Chowder (see No. 76), cooking 
one-half cup of finely chopped carrot with the potatoes, 
and leaving out the corn. 

81.— SALMON CHOWDER 

% cup half -inch cubes % cup flour 

salt pork 3 cups hot milk 

1 onion sliced 1 can salmon 

3 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons sifted crumbs 

4 potatoes cut in half- 1 beaten egg 

inch cubes % teaspoon salt 

1^ teaspoons salt y% teaspoon pepper 

y^ teaspoon paprika % teaspoon onion juice 

Cook salt pork and onion slowly for ten minutes; add 
boiling water, and strain into chowder kettle ; add potatoes 



46 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

and seasonings, and cook twenty minutes ; mix flour to a 
smooth paste with cold water ; add to milk, cook five min- 
utes, and add to potatoes. Chop the salmon, add crumbs, 
egg, salt, pepper, and onion juice, and mix well; shape 
into balls about an inch in diameter, add to chowder, and 
cook ten minutes. Serve with pilot crackers. 

82.— SALT FISH CHOWDER 

Follow recipe for Corn Chowder (see No. 76), using 
one cup flaked salt fish in place of corn. The fish should 
be soaked in cold water for one hour, drained, and sim- 
mered in the chowder five minutes. 

83.— VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

% cup half -inch cubes ^/^ cup carrot chopped 

salt pork ^/^ cup white turnip chopped 

1 onion finely chopped 1 quart boiling water 

1% cups half -inch potato 3 cups hot milk 

cubes 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup half-inch parsnip ^ teaspoon pepper 

cubes ^/4 cup dried bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

Cook pork and onion five minutes; add vegetables and 
water, and cook about twenty minutes or until vegetables 
are tender; add milk, seasonings, crumbs, and parsley. 
Four common crackers, split, may be used in place of bread 
crumbs. 



CHAPTER Vm 
FISH^ 

84.— BAKED COD STEAKS 

Wash and dry four slices of cod steak, season with salt 
and pepper, put in baking pan, and pour around them 
one-half cup of water and one tablespoon of shortening; 
bake twenty-five minutes, basting often. Remove skin and 
bone, and pour over fish either Cheese Sauce (see No. 
188) or Egg Sauce (see No. 195). Sliced halibut may be 
baked in the same way. 

85.— BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK 

Wash and dry a three-pound fish, fill with Fish StuflSng 
(see No. 210), and sew together. Place on a rack in a 
dripping pan, season with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and cover with thin slices of salt pork ; bake in a hot 
oven forty-five minutes, basting often. Until pork begins 
to try out, baste with two tablespoons of drippings melted 
in quarter of a cup of boiling water. Serve with Egg Sauce 
(see No. 195) and French Fried Potatoes (see No. 270). 

86.— BOILED HALIBUT 

Order two pounds of halibut cut near the tail; wash, 
cover vnth boiling water, add one tablespoon each of salt 
and vinegar, and boil about twenty-five minutes, skim- 

^ For cooking fish for which recipes are not given in this Chapter, 
see Time Table for Cooking (page 240). 

47 



48 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

ming when necessary ; drain, remove skin, and serve with 
Egg Sauce (see N"o. 195) or Cheese Sauce (see No. 188). 

87.— FRIED FILLETS OF FLOUNDER 

Have skin and bone removed from two medium-sized 
flounders; divide each piece of fish lengthwise, making 
eight fillets ; wash and dry, brush with melted butter, and 
season with salt and pepper; roll, fasten with skewers, 
roll in flour, dip in egg, roll in crumbs, and fry in deep fat 
from five to seven minutes. Serve with Sauce Tartare 
(see No. 202). 

88.— FISH SAUTEED WITH SALT PORK 

Out one-quarter pound of salt pork in thin slices, try 

out in frying pan, and remove scraps to platter. Cut cod, 

haddock, white fish, or any similar fish into one-inch 

slices ; wash, season with salt and pepper, dip in com meal, 

and saute on each side in pork fat about seven minutes, or 

until brown. 

89.— BROILED OYSTERS 

Select large oysters, season lightly with salt and pepper, 

dip in melted butter, and then in cracker crumbs. Place 

on a well-greased oyster broiler, and broil about three or 

four minutes, turning often. Serve very hot with lemon 

butter. 

90.— OYSTERS WITH BROWN SAUCE 

1 pint oysters V^ teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons bacon fat % teaspoon celery salt 
6 tablespoons flour % teaspoon pepper 

Stock or milk ^ teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Cook oysters until edges ruffle; drain, and save the 
liquor ; melt bacon fat, add flour, and stir until brown ; to 



FISH 49 

the oyster liquor add enough milk or stock to make two 

cups; add to flour and fat, and stir until smooth; add 

seasonings and oysters, stir until hot, and serve on toast or 

in Croustades (see No. 473) or Patty Shells (see No. 

621). 

91.— CREAMED OYSTERS 

1 pint small oysters Milk 

2Vi tablespoons butter % teaspoon salt 

5 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon paprika 

Vs teaspoon celery salt 

Cook oysters in their own liquor until plump; drain, 
and measure the liquor ; melt butter, add flour, and blend 
well; add oyster liquor, and enough milk to make two 
cups; stir until smooth, add seasonings and oysters, and 
serve on toast. Garnish with toast points and*sliced pickles. 

92.— CREAMED OYSTER PIE 

Bake a Pie Shell (see No. 622), fill with Creamed 
Oysters (see No. 91), and cover with a meringue made of 
the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, one teaspoon sugar, 
one-eighth teaspoon salt, two small sour pickles, and one 
canned sweet pepper (pickles and pepper wiped dry and 
chopped fine). Bake in a moderate oven about ten min- 
utes, or until meringue is well risen and brown. 

93.— OYSTERS AND MACARONI 

Arrange two cups of cooked macaroni and one pint of 
small oysters in layers in a buttered baking dish; season 
each layer with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour; 
cover with Buttered Crumbs (see No. 472), and bake in 
a hot oven twenty minutes. One-fourth cup of grated 
cheese may be added. 



50 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

94.— OYSTER SHORTCAKE 

Follow recipe for Shortcake (see No. 441) ; fill, and 
cover top with Creamed Oysters (see No, 91). Garnish 
with parsley and thin slices of lemon. 

95.--PANNED OYSTERS 

Heat and butter individual egg shirrers, or other fire- 
proof dishes which can be sent to the table ; put in a piece 
of buttered toast, cover with oysters, season lightly with 
salt and pepper, and bake in a hot oven about ten minutes, 
or until the edges ruffle. Garnish with toast points and 
lemon, and serve very hot. 

WARMED-OVER FISH 

96.— CREAMED FISH 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion ^/^ teaspoon salt 

1 slice carrot Vs teaspoon pepper 

Bit of bay leaf 1% cups flaked fish 

1 tablespoon butter % cup buttered crumbs 

Scald milk with onion, carrot, and bay leaf for fifteen 
minutes; strain; melt butter, add flour, and blend well; 
add milk, and stir until smooth ; add seasonings and fish ; 
turn into a greased baking dish, cover with crumbs, and 
bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Or arrange a border of 
mashed potato on a platter, and turn the creamed fish 
into the center, omitting the crumbs. 

97.— FISH AND POTATO PIE 

Line a deep greased dish with well-seasoned mashed 
potato to a thickness of one inch; fill to within one inch 



FISH 51 

of the top with Creamed Fish (see No. 96) ; cover with 
potato, brush with melted butter, and bake in a hot oven 
until brown. Garnish with parsley and lemon* 

98.— FISH TIMBALES 

iy2 cups hot milk ^ teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon butter Vi teaspoon salt 

y^ cup dried and sifted ^^ teaspoon grated onion 
bread crumbs 1 beaten egg 

1% cups cold flaked fish 

Scald milk, add other ingredients in order given ; turn 
into greased individual molds and bake in a slow oven until 
firm; turn out upon serving dish and pour around them 
Cheese Sauce (see No. 188). 

99.— CREOLE SALMON 

2 tablespoons bacon fat Vs teaspoon soda 
1 green pepper finely 1 cup hot milk 

chopped y^ teaspoon paprika 

1 onion finely chopped % teaspoon salt 
% cup tomato 1 can salmon 

Cook pepper and onion in bacon fat for five minutes; 
mix tomato and soda, and add to vegetables; bring to 
boiling point, and add seasonings and milk; add salmon, 
which has been rinsed with hot water and separated into 
fiakes. Serve with a border of boiled rice. 

100.— DUTCH SALMON 

2 tablespoons bacon fat ^ cup boiling water 
4 cups cabbage coarsely 1 teaspoon salt 

chopped ys teaspoon pepper 

1 can salmon 

Heat bacon fat in frying pan, add cabbage, and cook 
five minutes, stirring frequently; add water and season- 



52 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

ings, and cook fifteen minutes or until cabbage is tender, 
Kinse salmon with hot water^ separate into flakes, and 
add to cabbage. 

101.— SALMON LOAF 

1 cup dried bread crumbs 1 teaspoon onion juice 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup boiling water 

y^ teaspoon pepper 1 beaten egg 

1 can salmon flaked 

Mix in order given, put in greased mold, and steam one- 
half hour. Serve with white sauce to which has been added 
the juice of half a lemon. To free salmon of the oily taste, 
place in a sieve, and rinse with hot water before flaking. 
Tuna fish may be used in place of salmon. 

108.— SALMON AND PEAS SOUFFL^ 

1 cup hot milk ^^ teaspoon paprika 

% cup soft bread crumbs 1% cups flaked salmon 

1 tablespoon butter V2 cup peas 

y2 teaspoon salt Whites of 2 eggs 

Cook crumbs, butter, and seasonings in the hot milk for 
three minutes ; add the salmon and peas ; fold in the whites 
of the eggs, which have been beaten very stiflF; put in a 
greased baking dish, and bake about twenty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

103.— FRIED SCALLOPS 

Wash one pint of deep sea scallops, and cut each scallop 
into quarters ; scald with boiling water, drain, season with 
salt and pepper, dredge with flour, dip in egg, and then in 
crumbs, and fry in deep fat about two minutes ; drain on 
soft paper, and serve with Sauce Tartare (see No, 202). 



FISH 53 

104.— LOUISIANA SHRIMPS AND RICE 

2 tablespoons beef drip- 1% cups stock or water 

pings 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion finely chopped % teaspoon paprika 

3 tablespoons flour 2 cups cooked rice 

1 cup stewed and strained 1 cup cooked shrimps cut in 
tomato pieces 

Cook onion in fat for five minutes, add flour, and stir 
until well blended ; add tomatoes and stock, and stir until 
smooth; add seasonings, rice, and shrimps. 

SALT AND SMOKED FISH 

105.— FINNAN HADDIE BAKED IN MILK 

Wash fish, and soak in lukewarm water for half an 
hour; put in baking pan, add one-half cup each of milk 
and water, and bake about twenty-five minutes, basting 
often. Kemove to platter, spread with butter, and strain 
liquid in the pan over fish. 

106.— BAKED HERRING 

Arrange smoked, boned herring on pieces of entire 
wheat bread; place on platter, and pour hot milk over 
them, allowing three-quarters of a cup for six slices of 
bread. Brown in a hot oven. 

107.— BAKED SALT MACKEREL (Spiced) 

Soak mackerel in cold water for twelve hours; drain, 
and rinse with cold water. Place in a granite baking pan, 
sprinkle with one-fourth teaspoon each of clove, allspice, 
cinnamon, and pepper; add one-half cup each of vinegar 
and water ; bake in a moderate oven one hour, basting fre- 
quently. 



54 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

108.-^ALT FISH BAKED WITH CRACKERS 

1 cup flaked flsb 1 egg slightly beaten 

4 butter crackers 2 cups milk 

Cold water 1 tablespoon butter 

A few grains pepper 

Split crackers, put with fish in a baking dish, cover with 
cold water, and soak over night or for several hours ; drain, 
press out water, add other ingredients, and bake about 
twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

109.— BROILED FINNAN HADDIE 

Wash well, and soak in lukewarm water half an hour ; 
dry, brush with melted butter, and broil for fifteen min- 
utes, turning often; spread with butter, sprinkle with 
lemon juice, and serve very hot. 

110.— BROILED SALT CODFISH 

Select thick pieces of fish, and soak over night in cold 
water; drain, dry, brush with melted butter, and broil 
over a moderate fire ten minutes, turning often. Spread 
with soft butter. 

111.— BROILED SMOKED HERRING 

Soak herring in cold water half an hour; drain, pour 
boiling water over skin side, and soak for ten minutes; 
remove skin, place on a greased broiler, and cook over a 
clear fire about eight minutes, turning frequently ; spread 
with a little Mustard Butter (see No. 459), and sprinkle 
with lemon juice. 

112.— BROILED SMOKED SALMON 

Soak salmon in cold water for twenty-four hours, chang- 
ing the water once ; drain, dry, place on a greased broiler, 



FISH 55 

and broil over a moderate fire about five minutes on each 
side, turning often. Spread with soft butter and sprinkle 
with lemon juice. 

113.— CREAMED CODFISH 

1%. cups hot milk % teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup salt codfish flaked 

^/2 tablespoon butter 

Thicken milk with flour which has been mixed to a paste 
with cold water, add pepper, and cook fifteen minutes; 
soak codfish for two hours in lukewarm water, separate 
into small flakes, add to sauce, and simmer five minutes ; 
add butter just before serving. One beaten egg or one 
hard-cooked egg chopped may be added. Serve with baked 
potatoes. 

114.— FISH CAKES WITH PORK SCRAPS 

1 package shredded cod- % teaspoon pepper 

fish 1 egg well beaten 

2 cups hot mashed potato 2 tablespoons milk 

^ pound salt pork 

Soak fish in lukewarm water fifteen minutes ; drain, and 
squeeze in cheesecloth ; add potato, pepper, egg, milk, and 
salt if necessary; beat well, shape into small flat cakes, 
and roll in flour; cut pork in thin slices, and try out in 
frying pan ; when crisp, but not burnt, remove to platter ; 
cook fish cakes in fat in pan until brown, and serve with 
a piece of pork on each. 

IIS.^FISH BALLS 

Follow recipe for Fish Cakes (see No. 114), but shape 
slightly with a tablespoon, and cook in deep fat one minute. 



56 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

116.— FISH HASH 

Follow recipe for Fish Cakes (see No. 114), but omit 
the egg and add double the quantity of milk. Try out 
pork and remove scraps to platter; spread hash in frying 
pan with the fat, and stir well; cook slowly until well 
browned. Fold double, and serve with pork scraps. 

117.— SALT CODFISH SOUFFLE 

1 cup shredded codfish Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 cups mashed potato 2 tablespoons butter 

(hot or cold) Dash of pepper 

/Whites of 2 eggs 

Soak the fish in lukewarm water for ten minutes ; drain 
and dry thoroughly ; mix with the potato ; add egg yolks, 
which have been beaten very light, and the butter and 
pepper. Beat well, and fold in the whites of the eggs, 
which have been beaten stiff and dry. Put in a greased 
baking dish, and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Half of a green pepper and a slice of onion may be 
chopped and cooked in the butter, and added to the potato 
and fish. 

118.— SPANISH CODFISH 

1 onion li/4 cups tomatoes 

1 green pepper % cup salt codfish 

2 tablespoons bacon fat % teaspoon salt 

Chop onion and pepper, and cook in the bacon fat about 
five minutes; add the tomatoes and simmer ten minutes; 
add codfish, which has been flaked and freshened in luke- 
warm water, and salt if necessary. Simmer two minutes 
and serve with border of boiled rice. 



CHAPTER IX 



MEATS 



119.-:PRESSED BEEF 

Wash a four-pound piece of beef flank or any other of 
the cheaper cuts. Cover with boiling water, bring to 
boiling point, and skim; slice and add two carrots, two 
onions, and one white turnip ; cook slowly for four hours 
or until meat is very tender; add two teaspoons of salt 
when half cooked; pack meat solidly into a deep bread 
pan, putting the grain of the meat lengthwise ; place pan 
in a shallow pan to catch the overflow, put an empty bread 
pan on top of meat, and press with two heavy flatirons; 
let stand in a cool place over night. Strain the stock, and 
use for soups ox sauces. 



180.— PRESSED CORNED BEEF 

Select a four-pound piece of shoulder or lean end of 
brisket lightly corned ; wash well, cover with boiling water, 
and cook slowly for four hours; pack and press as for 
Pressed Beef (see No. 119). The heat should not be 
above the simmering point (185° F.) : if the water boils 
the meat will be tough. 

^ Recipes for using only the cheaper cuts of meat are given in 
this Chapter. For cooking poultry, game, and other cuts of meat, 
see Time Table for Cooking (page 2^). 

67 



58 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

121.— ROAST BEEF 

The most economical cuts of beef for roasting are the 
shoulder, the face of the rump, and the chuck ribs; they 
are all of good flavor and fairly tender. When ordering 
a shoulder roast, have an inch slice cut off to broil. The 
chuck roast should be ordered boned and rolled, and the 
bones sent with it. Wipe beef with cheesecloth, place 
skin side down on a rack in a roasting pan suitable for 
the size of the roast; dust with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and cook in a hot oven, basting every ten min- 
utes. When half roasted, turn over, dredge with flour, and 
finish cooking. For a medium-cooked roast allow seven- 
teen minutes for each pound of meat. The oven should be 
very hot for the first fifteenminutes, after which the heat 
should be reduced. 

122.— POT ROAST OF BEEF 

A small aitchbone or a solid piece from the shoulder 
weighing about five pounds makes an economical roast. 
Wash, dry, season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, 
and brown quickly in a hot frying pan or Scotch kettle; 
place in kettle, half cover with water, cover closely, and 
cook slowly four hours; when half cooked, season with 
salt and pepper; add four small onions, two carrots, and 
one white turnip cut in quarters ; when cooked place meat 
on platter with vegetables around it; remove fat from 
gravy, and thicken with flour mixed to a paste with cold 
water, allowing one-fourth cup of flour to two cups of 
gravy. Color with a few drops of kitchen bouquet if 
necessary. 



MEATS 59 

1S3.— SHIN OF BEEF WITH CREOLE SAUCE 

4 pounds shin of beef V^ teaspoon celery salt 

% onion sliced ^ teaspoon paprika 

% carrot sliced ^^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups tomato 4 tablespoons dried bread 

1 green pepper chopped crumbs 

% onion chopped 

Wash meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; put into an 
iron kettle or earthen crock ; add onion and carrot ; cover 
closely, and bake in a slow oven four hours. Remove meat 
from the bone ; skim fat from stock. Cook tomatoes, pep- 
per, onion, and seasonings twenty minutes; add stock, 
crumbs, and meat. The meat cooks in its own juice and 
will be very tender. 

134.— STUFFED SHIN OF BEEF 

4 pounds shin of beef 1 small white turnip 

1 onion ^ teaspoon salt 

1 carrot 1 quart boiling water 

Have the bone removed and cracked ; finely chop vege- 
tables and stuff into beef; place on a trivet in kettle with 
the bone; add boiling water, and cook slowly for four 
hours. Skim when necessary. Remove meat, and thicken 
gravy with flour mixed to a paste with cold water, allow- 
ing one-fourth cup flour to two cups gravy. Color with a 
few drops of kitchen bouquet. 

125.-.TO BROIL STEAK 

Wipe steak, trim off superfluous fat, place on a greased 
broiler with fat towards the handle, and broil over a clear 
fire or under a gas flame. Turn four or five times dur- 
ing the first minute, and then occasionally. For steak 



60 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

an inch and a half thick, medium cooked, allow twelve 
minutes to broil. Season with salt and pepper, and spread 
with soft butter. A slice from the shoulder is a good 
and inexpensive cut. 



126— BROILED FLANK STEAK 

Follow directions for broiling steak (see No. 125), but, 
as flank steak is thinner, broil only seven or eight minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper, spread with one tablespoon of 
soft butter and one tablespoon of tomato ketchup. 

127.— STEAK COUNTRY STYLE 

1% pounds flank steak ^ teaspoon salt 
4 onions % teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon flour y^ cup boiling water 

Pound the steak with a meat pounder or a wooden potato 
masher to break the tough fibers. Sear quickly on each 
side in a very hot frying pan ; peel and chop onions, dredge 
with flour, and put in pan with the steak; add salt and 
pepper ; cover closely, and cook slowly an hour and a half. 
Put steak on platter, add boiling water to onions, and pour 
around steak. Serve with hashed brown potatoes. 

128.— BROILED CHOPPED BEEF 

Put one pound and a half of any of the cheaper cuts of 
beef through the meat chopper; season with pepper and 
salt, and pat lightly into a flat cake an inch thick; place 
carefully on a greased broiler, and broil about eight 
minutes for a medium-cooked steak. Spread with soft 
butter* 



MEATS 61 

129— HAMBURG MEAT CAKES 

1 pound beef 1 teaspoon salt 

1 thin slice salt pork % teaspoon pepper 

% cup dried crumbs y^ cup milk 

Use any of the cheaper cuts of beef; put through the 
meat chopper with the salt pork, add crumbs, seasoning, 
and milk; mix well, shape into small flat cakes, roll in 
flour, and saute slowly in beef drippings until brown, 
allowing ten minutes for each side. Remove meat to 
platter ; add two tablespoons of flour to the fat in the pan, 
and stir until brown; add one-fourth teaspoon each of 
mustard, salt, and paprika, and one cup of boiling water. 
Stir until smooth, and pour around meat cakes. One tea- 
spoon of grated onion may be added to meat. 

130.— BEEF AND BACON CAKES 

1 pound flank of beef ^^ cup water 

3 slices bacon ^ teaspoon salt 

y^ cup dried bread Dash of cayenne 

crumbs 

Put meat and bacon through chopper ; add crumbs, water, 
and seasonings ; mix well, form into small flat cakes, and 
saute in bacon fat. 

181.— BEEF LOAF 

2 pounds shoulder trim- V2 teaspoon pepper 

mings chopped IV^ teaspoons salt 

l^ pound salt pork 3 common crackers rolled fine 

chopped 1 cup milk 

Mix in order given and bake in a deep pan about two 
hours in a slow oven. Serve hot with Tomato Sauce (see 
No. 203) or Creole Sauce (see No. 191), or serve cold, 
sliced. One teaspoon of poultry seasoning may be added 
if desired. 



62 ' BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

132.— CASSEROLE OF BEEF 

1 pound of shoulder 1 onion 

trimmings 1 tablespoon pearl tapioca 

1 tablespoon flour 1^ teaspoons salt 

2 potatoes % teaspoon paprika 

1 carrot 1 tablespoon tomato ketchup 

Cold water 

Cut beef into inch pieces, sear quickly in hot frying 

pan, dredge with flour, and put into casserole; cut potatoes 

into cubes or balls; put carrot and onion through meat 

chopper; mix vegetables, and add to meat; add tapioca 

and seasonings, cover with cold water (a little of the water 

should be put into the frying pan to obtain all the flavor 

of the meat, and then added to the rest). Cover, and bake 

slowly two and a half hours. Any of the other cheaper 

cuts of meat may be used. Serve with spinach or cold 

slaw. 

133.— CREAMED DRIED BEEF WITH CHEESE 

% pound dried beef 1 cup milk 

iy2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons ketchup 

Cut beef in small pieces, cover with boiling water, let 
stand five minutes, and drain; melt butter, add beef, and 
stir until hot ; add flour and milk, and stir until smooth ; 
add cheese and ketchup, and stir until cheese is melted. 
Serve with baked potatoes. 

134.— AMERICAN CHOP SUEY 

2 tablespoons bacon fat 1 can condensed tomato soup 

1 onion finely chopped 1 cup cooked spaghetti 

% pound flank beef % teaspoon salt 

chopped fine % teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion and beef in fat until brown ; add tomato, 
spaghetti, and seasonings, and simmer ten minutes. 



MEATS 6i 

186.— BROWN FRICASSEE OF LAMB 

2 pounds forequarter 2 onions 

lamb 2 white turnips 

2 quarts boiling water 2 carrots 

iy2 teaspoons salt 5 tablespoons flour 

y^ teaspoon kitchen bouquet 

Cut lamb in pieces the size of a chop, trim off nearly 
all fat, add boiling water, heat to boiling point, and skim ; 
add salt and vegetables (left whole), and simmer for two 
hours; remove meat, season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and saute with two tablespoons of fat in a hot 
frying pan until brown; to the fat in the pan add the 
flour, and stir until brown, add two cups of stock, and 
stir until smooth ; color with kitchen bouquet, add pepper, 
and salt if necessary. Slice vegetables, and serve with 
meat. Use left-over stock for soups or sauces. 

136.— CASSEROLE OF LAMB 

1^ pounds forequarter 1 cup tomato 

lamb 2 tablespoons rolled oats 

% cup each white turnip, ^ teaspoon pepper 

carrot, and onion l^^ teaspoons salt 

finely chopped 3 cups hot water 

Remove fat and cut meat into inch pieces; put into a 
casserole with vegetables, oats, seasonings, and water, and 
cook in a moderate oven two hours. 

187.— LAMB CHOPS 

Chops from the forequarter are much cheaper than 
loin or kidney chops. They contain more bone, but are 
tender and of good flavor, if well cooked. Cook the same 
as Lamb Cutlets (see No. 138). The time of cooking 
may vary slightly according to the thickness of the meat 



64 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

188.— LAMB CUTLETS 

Have a small forequarter of lamb cut in pieces for 
serving ; select the best pieces, trim, and skewer into shape. 
Season lightly with salt and pepper, dip in egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat about seven minutes ; or dip in flour, 
and saute on each side about ten minutes ; or broil on each 
side about five minutes. The rest of the forequarter can 
be used for fricassee, Scotch broth, croquettes, and many 
other dishes. 

189.— ROLLED ROAST OF LAMB 

Order a small forequarter of lamb boned and rolled; 
have the bones sent with the meat ; wash bones and meat, 
put bones in kettle, put meat on top ; add one sliced onion, 
one sliced carrot, one bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme. Cover 
with two quarts of boiling water, and simmer for two 
hours, skimming when necessary; add two teaspoons of 
salt after meat has cooked one hour. Remove meat to a 
roasting pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and roast in a hot oven about half an hour. To the 
drippings in the pan add four tablespoons of flour and 
stir until brown ; add one and a half cups of stock which 
has been strained and had fat removed ; stir until smooth 
and serve with meat. The left-over stock should be used 
for soups and sauces. The forequarter of lamb, although 
quite fat, is tender and of good flavor, and costs much less 
than a leg of lamb. 

140.— BROWN FRICASSEE OF FOWL 

Clean, singe, and cut up a four-pound fowl, place in a 
kettle, cover with boiling water, add one whole onion, and 
one carrot cut in halves, and cook slowly for three hours, 



MEATS 65 

or until tender; add two teaspoons of salt when half 
cooked; remove fowl, season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in one-quarter of a pound of fat 
salt pork tried out in the frying pan. Eemove fowl to 
platter, and make a sauce in the pan with four tablespoons 
of fat, five tablespoons of flour browned together, and two 
cups of stock. Pour over fowl, and garnish with toast 
points or small, thin baking powder biscuit. The re- 
mainder of the stock may be used for soup or sauce, or for 
Celery Toast (see No. 462). 

141.— ROAST FOWL 

Clean and singe a five-pound fowl; stuff with Bread 
Stufiing (see No. 208), truss, place on a trivet in a pan 
suited to the size of the fowl, dredge with flour, cover with 
thin slices of fat salt pork, and bake in a slow oven three 
hours, basting every fifteen minutes. Put into the pan 
the chicken fat (which was removed ^hen cleaning) and 
use for basting. Dredge with flour twice while cooking. 
Cook the giblets in boiling water one hour, and chop fine ; 
make a gravy in the pan, allowing four tablespoons each 
of fat and flour, and the water in which giblets were 
cooked, with enough boiling water added to make two 
cups; season with salt and pepper, and add the giblets. 
If cooked slowly and basted often, a fowl will be as tender 
as a chicken. 

142.— CHICKEN PIE 

Use the remnants of cold roast or fricasseed fowl. If 
roast fowl is used, make stock by covering bones and left- 
over gravy with cold water and simmering an hour or 
more; to three cups of stock add one-half onion chopped, 



66 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

two potatoes cut in half-inch cubes, one teaspoon salt, and 
one-eighth teaspoon pepper, and boil fifteen minutes; 
thicken with one-half cup of flour mixed to a paste with 
cold water; put chicken in a baking dish, add stock and 
potato, and cover with small biscuit made by Baking Pow- 
der Biscuit (see No. 424) or Shortcake (see No. 441) 
recipes. Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes or until 
biscuit are done. If the amount of chicken is scant, add 
one or two hard-cooked eggs sliced. 

143.— POTTED PIGEONS 

4 pigeons 1 cup celery tops 

Bread Stuffing (see No. ^^ teaspoon salt 

208) Vs teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons bacon fat 2 cups boiling water 

% onion sliced 3 tablespoons flour 

% carrot sliced 4 tablespoons cold water 

Clean pigeons, wipe dry, stuff, and truss neatly into 
shape. Brown in hot bacon fat in the frying pan, and 
place in a casserole dish or bean pot ; add vegetables, sea- 
sonings, and boiling water. Cover, and bake in a slow 
oven three hours. Remove pigeons to serving dish, thicken 
the stock with the flour mixed to a paste with cold water ; 
cook ten minutes, strain, and pour over pigeons. The 
giblets may be cooked in boiling salted water about ten 
minutes, chopped, and added to the sauce. 

144.— COUNTRY CLUB RABBIT 

Cut a young rabbit in pieces for serving; sprinkle with 
salt and pepper ; dip in flour, then in egg, and coat thickly 
with crumbs; put into a well-greased baking pan, and 
bake in a hot oven about half an hour, basting often with 
bacon fat. Arrange rabbit on serving dish, and make a 



MEATS 67 

brown sauce in the pan, using three tablespoons each of 
bacon fat and flour, one teaspoon of grated onion, and one 
and one-half cups of stocky milk, or boiling water. Season 
with one-half teaspoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoon paprika, 
and two tablespoons tomato ketchup. 

145.— CASSEROLE OF RABBIT AND OKRA 

3 slices bacon 1^ teaspoons salt 

1 rabbit % teaspoon pepper 

1 onion finely chopped 2 cups boiling water 

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup tomatoes 

1 pint okra sliced 

Cut bacon into one-inch pieces, and cook in frying pan 
until brown ; remove bacon ; cut rabbit in pieces for serv- 
ing and soak half an hour in cold salted water; drain, 
dredge with flour, brown in bacon fat, and put with cooked 
bacon in a casserole dish; cook onion in bacon fat until 
brown; add flour, salt, pepper, and boiling water; stir 
until smooth, and pour over rabbit ; add tomato and okra, 
sprinkle with salt; cover, and bake in a moderate oven 
one hour and a half. 

146.— ROAST PORK 

Have the bone removed from a six-pound fresh shoulder 
of pork; wash, dry, and stuff with Bread Stuffing (see No. 
208) or Peanut Stuffing (see No. 211) ; season with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour, and roast in a moderate 
oven about two and three-quarters hours. Baste often, 
and be sure oven is not too hot, as pork must cook slowly. 
This is an excellent cut, and less expensive than the loin 
or fresh leg. Strain the fat and add it to the frying fat, 
or use in place of lard. Have the bones sent and use for 
stock. Serve with Dark Red Apple Sauce (see No. 663). 



68 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

147.^PORK CHOPS BAKED WITH POTATOES 

Pare potatoes, and cut in thin slices ; wash, drain, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and put into a baking dish; 
cover with small pork chops from which part of the fat 
has been removed ; dust with salt, pepper, and flour ; add 
half a cup of boiling water, and bake in a hot oven about 
forty minutes. Turn chops when half cooked. 

148.— SAUSAGE CAKES 

% pound sausage meat ^^ teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon grated onion % cup hot water 

% cup sifted crumbs 

Mix well, shape into small flat cakes, roll in crumbs, 
and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes, or until 
brown. 

149.— SAUSAGE CAKES BAKED WITH APPLE 

1 pound sausage meat 4 apples 

Shape meat into small flat cakes, and put in the center 
of a dripping pan; core apples, cut into half -inch slices, 
and put around sausage. Bake in a hot oven until brown, 
basting frequently with the fat from the sausage. 

150.— SAUSAGES WITH OYSTERS AND EGGS 

4 small sausages 1 cup small oysters 

1 teaspoon grated onion 2 eggs slightly beaten 

y^ teaspoon salt 

Cut sausages into half-inch bias slices, and cook with 
onion in a hot frying pan until brown; add oysters, and 
cook until edges ruffle; add eggs and salt, and scramble 
until firm. 



MEATS 69 

151.— BREAKFAST BACON 

Lay slices of bacon close together on a fine wire broiler, 
place broiler over a dripping pan, and bake in a hot oven 
about ten minutes or until bacon is brown and crisp. 
Avoid burning. Save fat for cooking. 

152.— BROILED HAM 

Ham for broiling should be cut in very thin slices. 
Trim off superfluous fat, cover ham with lukewarm water, 
and stand on back of range for fifteen minutes ; dry, and 
broil over clear fire until fat is brown. 

153.— BAKED SLICED HAM 

Order a small slice of ham cut an inch and a half thick ; 
cover with warm water, and place on the back of the range 
for an hour. Drain ham, cover with a mixture of two 
tablespoons of flour, two tablespoons of brown sugar, one- 
half teaspoon of mustard, and a dash of cayenne. Put a 
few small bits of the fat on top, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Place ham on platter, pour 
off fat in the pan, add one-fourth cup of cider or weak 
vinegar ; bring to boiling point, and i)our around ham. 

154.— HAM LOAF 

1 pound raw ham 2 beaten eggs 

1 cup dried crumbs % teaspoon mustard 

1 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon salt 

Put ham, including the fat, through meat chopper ; add 
crumbs, water, eggs, and seasonings; mix well, and bake 
in a small bread pan, in a slow oven, an hour and a half; 
or cook in steamer two hours. 



70 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

155.— ROAST BREAST OF VEAL STUFFED 

Have a pocket cut in veal, wash, dry, and stuff with 
Crust Stuffing (see No. 209) ; skewer neatly into shape, 
dredge with flour, season with salt and pepper, and cover 
with two thin slices of fat salt pork ; place on rack in drip- 
ping pan, and roast in a moderate oven two hours, basting 
often. Serve with gravy made from drippings in the pan, 
three tablespoons of flour, and one and one-half cups of 
water. Season with salt and pepper, and strain. 



156.— VEAL WITH VEGETABLES 

3 pounds knuckle of veal ^ cup pearl barley 

% cup each of finely 2 cups hot water 

chopped onion, car- V/^ teaspoons salt 

rot, turnip, and celery ^ teaspoon paprika 

Order veal cut in three-inch lengths ; remove meat from 
bone, and put in a casserole dish; add vegetables, barley 
(which has been soaked for an hour in cold water), hot 
water, and seasonings ; place the pieces of bone, cut edge 
down, on top ; cover closely, and bake in a moderate oven 
two and a half hours. Remove the bones before serving. 



157.--VEAL LOAF (Baked) 

2V^ pounds raw veal 2 teaspoons salt 

y^ pound salt pork 1 cup dried and sifted crumbs 

% teaspoon pepper % cup boiling water 

y2 cup milk 

Put veal and pork through the meat chopper; add pep- 
per, salt, crumbs, water, and milk. Mix well, press into 
a deep pan, cover with paper, and bake slowly for two 



MEATS 71 



hours. Serve hot or cold. A teaspoon each of poultry 
seasoning and grated onion may be added. 



158.— VEAL LOAF (Boiled) 

4 pounds knuckle of veal 4 cups hot water 

1 onion % package gelatine 

1 bay leaf V^ cup cold water 

4 cloves Juice of 1 lemon 

2V^ teaspoons salt 1 hard-boiled egg 

y^ teaspoon pepper 2 gherkins 

Cook veal with seasonings in hot water until meat is 
very tender ; strain, remove fat and bone, and chop meat ; 
soak gelatine in cold water, add to strained stock in which 
meat was cooked, add meat and lemon juice, cool, and 
turn into deep pan which has been garnished with slices of 
hard-boiled egg and pickles sliced lengthwise. Put in the 
ice-box for several hours before serving. 

159.— POTTED HEAD 

1 calf's head 1% teaspoons salt 

1 pound lean fresh pork % teaspoon paprika 
6 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon onion juice 

1 teaspoon poultry seasoning 

Have head split and dressed at the market ; singe, wash 
well, put in kettle with pork and boiling water, cover, and 
simmer three hours. Eemove bones, and put meat through 
chopper; reduce stock to one and one-half cups, strain, 
and add, with seasonings, to the meat. Press into a bread 
pan and put in a cold place. Serve sliced cold, or dip 
slices in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 



72 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

160.— BRAISED LIVER 



3 pounds liver 


% cup carrots finely chopped 


1%-inch cube salt pork 


i/i teaspoon salt 


% cup onion finely 


Vs teaspoon pepper 


chopped 


2 cups boiling water 


H cup celery finely 


%. cup flour 


chopped 





Soak liver in cold salted water for half an hour, scald, 
remove skin, and dredge with flour ; cut pork in thin slices, 
and try out in frying pan; brown liver in pork fat, and 
place in an earthen dish or kettle, add vegetables, season- 
ings, and water which has first been put in the frying pan ; 
cover closely, and bake three hours in a slow oven, adding 
water if necessary; remove liver, and thicken gravy and 
vegetables with one-fourth cup of flour mixed to a paste 
with cold water. 

161.— BROWN FRICASSEE OF LIVER 

1 pound liver 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cups boiling water % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons bacon fat V^ teaspoon paprika 
1 tablespoon grated onion 6 slices of toast 

Cut liver into half-inch cubes, and soak in cold salted 
water fifteen minutes ; drain ; cover with the boiling water, 
and simmer six minutes; cook bacon fat, onion, and flour 
until brown ; add seasonings, and stock in which liver was 
cooked; stir until smooth; add liver, and pour over toast 
or small, thin baking powder biscuit. 

162.— CHICKEN LIVERS AND BACON 

Cook chicken livers in boiling salted water fifteen min- 
utes ; put each liver on half of a slice of bacon, fold other 
half over liver, and bake in a hot oven until bacon is crisp ; 



J 



MEATS 73 

moisten slices of toast with the stock in which livers were 
cooked, and serve two pieces of bacon and livers on toast 
for each person, 

163.— FRIED LAMB'S LIVER AND BACON 

Cut liver in one-third-inch slices; soak in cold water 
for half an hour; drain, dry, and cook in hot deep fat, 
with six slices of bacon, until brown. 

164,-.LAMBS' KIDNEYS IN BROWN SAUCE 

6 lambs' kidneys y^ teaspoon paprika 

1^/^ cups boiling water % teaspoon onion juice 
1% tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

3 tablespoons flour sauce 

%■ teaspoon salt Few drops kitchen bouquet 

6 slices of toast 

Split kidneys and soak in cold water half an hour; 
drain ; cover with boiling water, and simmer five minutes ; 
skim out of water, and cut in small dice ; brown the but- 
ter, add the flour, and brown well ; add the water in which 
the kidneys were cooked, and stir until smooth; add kid- 
neys and seasonings, and serve on toast. 

165.— DEVILLED KIDNEYS 

6 lambs' kidneys, split 1 cup water or stock 

3 tablespoons drippings 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 

1 tablespoon chopped sauce 

onion 1 teaspoon mustard 

3 tablespoons flour ^ teaspoon salt 

Dash of cayenne 

Scald, skin, and split kidneys ; cook with fat and onion 
five minutes, and remove from the pan. To the fat in 
the pan add flour, and stir until brown; add liquid, and 



74 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

stir until smooth ; add seasonings and kidneys. Serve on 
toast or with mashed potato border. 



166.— SPANISH TRIPE 

1 pound fresh boiled tripe ^/^ cup chopped white cabbage 

% can tomatoes % teaspoon salt 

% onion chopped Few grains cayenne 

% green pepper chopped 2 slices bacon 

Cut tripe in small pieces for serving and put in greased 
casserole dish ; scald tomatoes, add onion, pepper, cabbage, 
and seasonings ; pour over tripe ; cut bacon into bits, put 
on top, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 



167.— TRIPE FRIED IN BATTER 

1 pound fresh boiled tripe 1 cup flour 

1 slice onion 1^/^ teaspoons baking powder 

2 cloves y^ teaspoon salt 
% bay leaf 1 egg well beaten 
1 tablespoon vinegar % cup -^ater 

Cut tripe in pieces the size of a large oyster, cover with 
boiling water, add seasonings, simmer fifteen minutes, and 
drain. Make a batter of flour, baking powder, salt, egg, 
and water. Dry each piece of tripe, dip in batter, and 
fry in deep fat for one minute. Serve with Sauce Tartare 
(see No. 202) or Russian Dressing (see No. 341). 



168.— TRIPE FRIED IN CRUMBS 

Prepare tripe as for Tripe Fried in Batter (see No. 
167) ; dip each piece of tripe first in tomato ketchup, then 
in crumbs, then in beaten egg, and then in crumbs again. 
Fry in deep fat for one minute, and drain on soft paper. 



MEATS 75 

WAEMED-OVER MEATS 

169.^SAVORY BEEF 

1% cups tomatoes Vs teaspoon pepper 

% cup beef gravy 1^/^ cups cold roast beef 

% onion 2 cups cooked spaghetti 

4 cloves y2 cup bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons beef drippings 

1 tablespoon butter 

Simmer tomatoes, gravy, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and press through a sieve ; add beef cut in small 
pieces, and spaghetti, and pour into a greased baking dish ; 
cover with crumbs v^^hich have been mixed with the drip- 
pings and butter melted together. Bake in a moderate 
oven about fifteen minutes. A can of condensed tomato 
soup may be used in place of the tomato sauce. Any meat 
may be used. 

170.— SCALLOPED CORNED BEEF 

2 tablespoons beef drip- ^ teaspoon celery salt 

pings 1 cup corned beef stock 

5 tablespoons flour % cup hot milft 

1 teaspoon grated onion 1% cups corned beef cut in 
YjI teaspoon paprika half-inch cubes 

^ cup Buttered Crumbs (see No. 472) 

Melt drippings, add fiour, onion, and seasonings, and 
cook two minutes; add stock and milk, and stir until 
smooth; add meat, and put into a greased baking dish; 
cover with crumbs, and bake until crumbs are brown. 



76 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

171.— BAKED HAM AND POTATO 

3 cups well-seasoned ^/^ teaspoon mustard 

mashed potato 6 pimolas chopped 

1 cup chopped cooked ham % cup hot milk 

1 teaspoon grated onion % cup crumbs 

1 teaspoon chopped 1 tablespoon bacon fat 
parsley 

Mix potato, ham^ seasonings, and milk, put into a 
greased baking dish, cover with crumbs which have been 
mixed with melted bacon fat, and bake in a hot oven until 
brown ; or prepare half of mixture, spread in egg shirrers, 
make a depression with the back of a spoon, and into it 
carefully break an egg; cover with crumbs, and bake until 
egg is set. 

172.— HAM MOUSSE 

1% cups chopped cooked 1 cup hot milk 

ham 1 teaspoon mixed mustard 

% cup soft bread crumbs % teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon gelatine Whites of 2 eggs 

Mix ham with bread crumbs; dissolve the gelatine in 
the hot milk, and add to crumbs with mustard and paprika ; 
beat the whites of eggs very stiff and fold lightly into 
mixture. Put into a deep pan or mold, and place on ice 
until firm. A little salt may be needed. 



178.— CORNED BEEF HASH WITH BEETS 

1% cups corned beef % teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked potatoes 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
% cup cooked beets sauce 

1 teaspoon grated onion % cup stock or water 

2 tablespoons beef drippings 

Have meat, potatoes, and beets coarsely chopped; add 
seasonings and stock; melt fat in frying pan, and, when 



MEATS 77 

very hot, add hash; cook slowly until a rich brown crust 
is fonned; fold, and serve on a hot platter. If meat is 
very fat, use less fat in frying pan. 

174.-^AVORY HASH (Baked) 

1 cup cold meat cut fine 1 cup tomatoes 

2 cups cold cooked % teaspoon salt 

potatoes Ys teaspoon pepper 

% onion finely chopped 2 tablespoons melted bacon fat 
2 stalks celery chopped, or or beef drippings 

y^ teaspoon celery salt 

Mix, and bake in casserole in moderate oven forty-five 
minutes. 

175.— SOUTHERN HASH 

4 raw potatoes % c^P stock or water 

2 green peppers 1^^ cups cold chopped beef 

2 tomatoes Salt and pepper 

1 onion Toast points 

Put vegetables through the meat chopper, using coarse 
cutter ; cook in the stock, covered, until tender ; add beef, 
salt, and pepper, and when hot turn on a platter and 
garnish with toast points. If corned beef and stock are 
used, use salt with care. 

176.— LIVER PATTIES 

2 cups chopped cooked 2 tablespoons finely chopped 

liver pickles 

2 cups mashed potato Salt and pepper 

Coarse stale bread crumbs 

Mix liver, potato, and pickles, and season with salt 
and pepper. Grease patty pans or cups; sprinkle with 
crumbs, and fill with mixture. Bake fifteen minutes in, 



78 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

a hot oven, turn out on serving dish, and serve with Brown 
Sauce (see No. 185) or Tomato Sauce (see No. 203). 

177.— MEAT AND TOMATO PIE 

2 cups cooked meat cut I/2 teaspoon onion juice 

in inch pieces 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 can tomatoes drained sauce 

Salt and pepper Quick Drop Biscuit (see No. 
% cup fine crumbs 429) 

^2 cup gravy or stock 

In a deep dish arrange in alternate layers meat and 
tomatoes cut in pieces; season each layer with salt and 
pepper, and sprinkle with crumbs ; add onion and Worces- 
tershire sauce to gravy, and pour over all; bake twenty 
minutes in a hot oven ; remove from oven, and drop biscuit 
mixture by spoonfuls on top; bake about fifteen minutes 
longer. Use tomato juice for soup or sauce. 

178.— MEAT SOUFFLE 

V2 cup dry bread crumbs % onion chopped fine 

ll^ cups hot stock or milk 1^/^ teaspoons salt 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon paprika 

1% cups chopped meat Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 cup celery or white cab- Whites of 2 eggs 
bage chopped fine 

Mix in the order given, beating the yolks until thick 
and light, and the whites until very stifl[. Bake in a 
moderate oven about half an hour. Any left-over meat 
may be used. 



MEATS (79 

179.— MEAT SHORTCAKE 

1^2 cups cooked meat ^^ teaspoon salt 

chopped y^ teaspoon paprika 

% cup celery tops ^/^ teaspoon dry mustard 

chopped 1 cup meat gravy or thickened 

1 teaspoon grated onion stock 

Mix ingredients, simmer for fifteen minutes, and put 
between layers of Shortcake (see No. 441). 






CHAPTER X 

SAUCES AND STUFFINGS FOE FISH AND 

MEATS 

180.— ANCHOVY SAUCE 

Add to Drawn Butter (see No. 194) one and one-half 
teaspoons of anchovy paste and one tablespoon of lemon 
juice. 

181.— BANANA SAUCE 

2 bananas Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon butter Few grains salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons Worcestershire 

Juice of ^ lemon sauce 

1 teaspoon horseradish 

Peel and scrape bananas, and force through coarse sieve ; 
melt butter, add sugar, lemon juice, seasonings, and 
bananas; stir until hot, and serve with cold roast beef. 

182.— BECHAMEL SAUCE 

1 cup white stock 1 tablespoon shortening 

1 slice onion 2% tablespoons flour 

1 slice carrot ^ teaspoon salt 

Sprig of parsley Few grains cayenne 

1 teaspoon butter 

Simmer stock, onion, carrot, and parsley fifteen min- 
utes, and strain; melt shortening, add flour, and blend 
well ; add stock and seasoning, and stir until smooth ; add 
butter just before serving. 

80 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS 81 

183.— BLACK BUTTER 

% cup butter ^ teaspoon Worcestershire or 

2 tablespoons vinegar Brand's Al sauce 

% teaspoon onion juice 

Cook buttet until brown, but do not bum; simmer 
vinegar, onion juice, and sauce five minutes, and add to 
butter. Serve with cauliflower, celery, fried eggs, or fish. 
A tablespoon of chopped capers or parsley may be added. 

184.— BREAD SAUCE 

1% cups milk Sprig of parsley 

% onion ^4 teaspoon paprika • 

2 cloves % teaspoon salt 

Bit of bay leaf % cup soft b^ead crumbs 

Scald milk and seasonings, except salt, in double boiler 
half an hour, strain, add salt and soft crumbs, and simmer 
ten minutes. 

185.— BROWN SAUCE 

1 cup brown stock 2 cloves 

1 slice onion chopped ^ teaspoon salt 

1 slice carrot chopped y% teaspoon pepper 

1 sprig parsley 1^ tablespoons butter 

2^ tablespoons flour 

Simmer stock, vegetables, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and strain; brown the butter, add flour, and 
brown, add stock, and beat until smooth. Any stock may 
be colored with a few drops of kitchen bouquet, and used ; 
or beef cubes or extract may be used with water instead 
of stock, but in that case less salt and pepper should be 
used. 

186.— CAPER SAUCE 

To recipe for Drawn Butter (see No. 194) add one- 
fourth cup of capers. 



82 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

187.— CELERY SAUCE 

1 cup celery chopped % teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon grated onion % cup milk 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons flour 

Simmer celery, onion, water, and salt for half an hour ; 
add pepper and milk, and thicken with butter and flour 
creamed together. 



188.— CHEESE SAUCE 

1 tablespoon butter % cup cheese cut fine 

1% tablespoons flour i/4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk y^ teaspoon mustard 

^ teaspoon paprika 

Melt butter, add flour, and blend well; add milk and 
stir until smooth; add cheese and seasonings, and stir 
until cheese is melted. 



189.— CHEESE SAUCE WITH CHIVES 

Follow directions for Cheese Sauce (see No. 188), and 
just before serving add one tablespoon of finely chopped 
chives. Serve with any white fish, or with plain omelet. 

190.— CIDER SAUCE 

2 tablespoons bacon fat Vk teaspoon paprika 
2 tablespoons flour Vs teaspoon salt 

1 cup cider Vs teaspoon mustard 

Blend bacon fat and flour, add cider, and stir until 
boiling point is reached ; add seasonings and simmer one- 
Ji.aljf hour. Serve with roast pork or ham. 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS 83 

191.— CREOLE SAUCE 

% can tomatoes 1 green pepper 

2 tablespoons bacon fat 1 tablespoon flour 
Yz onion % teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Cook tomatoes until reduced to one cup ; peel and finely 
chop onion; remove seeds and veins from pepper, chop, 
and cook with onion in bacon fat for ten minutes; add 
flour, salt, and Worcestershire sauce, and stir well; add 
tomato, and simmer five minutes. 

192.— CROQUETTE SAUCE 

3 tablespoons shortening 1 cup milk 

% cup bread flour l^ teaspoon salt 

Ys teaspoon pepper 

Proceed as for White Sauce (see No. 207). Stock may 
be used in place of milk, and the seasonings may be varied 
according to the croquette material, using a few drops of 
onion juice, a dash of nutmeg, cayenne, paprika, or a 
small quantity of table sauce or ketchup. 

193.— CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Pare and grate two small cucumbers, drain, and season 
with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Serve with fish, 

194.— DRAWN BUTTER 

2 tablespoons butter V^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour % teaspoon pepper 

1 cup hot water 1 teaspoon butter 

Cook butter until it bubbles, stir in flour, add hot water, 
salt, and pepper, and beat until smooth; add butter in 
small pieces just before serving. 



84 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

195.— EGG SAUCE 

Add to Drawn Butter (see No. 194) or White Sauce 
(see No. 207) one hard-cooked egg coarsely chopped. 

196.— HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

% cup butter Few grains cayenne 

1 tablespoon flour % cup hot water 

^ teaspoon salt 1 egg yolk 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Cream half of the butter with flour, salt, and cayenne ; 
add hot water, and cook over hot water for ten minutes, 
stirring constantly until thickened ; add egg yolk slightly 
beaten, lemon juice, and remainder of butter; cook about 
two minutes, or until thick; beat well, and serve at once. 

197.— HORSERADISH SAUCE 

To recipe for Bread Sauce (see No. 184) add one-third 
cup grated horseradish and the juice of half a lemon. 

198.— MINT SAUCE 

1 bunch mint 2 tablespoons sugar 

%, cup boiling water ^^ teaspoon salt 

^ cup vinegar Few grains cayenne 

Wash and dry mint, pick leaves, and chop very fine, 
add other ingredients, put on back of range, and keep 
warm for half an hour. 

199.— MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Wash six mushroom caps, cut in small pieces, and sim- 
mer with one teaspoon of butter for ten minutes. Add to 
recipe for Brown Sauce (see No. 185), or to recipe for 
White Sauce (see No. 207). If the mushrooms are fresh 
and tender the stems may be used also. 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS 85 

900.— MUSTARD PICKLE SAUCE 

To Drawn Butter (see No. 194) add two tablespoons 
of mixed mustard pickles chopped. 

301.— ORANGE MINT SAUCE 

14 cup vinegar y4^ teaspoon orange rind 

^ cup orange juice 1 tablespoon sugar 

y^ cup mint leaves chopped 

Let stand on back of range for half an hour, and serve 
cold. 

202.— SAUCE TARTARE 

To one cup Mayonnaise Dressing (see No. 339) add 
three tablespoons finely chopped mixed pickles and one 
tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

203.— TOMATO SAUCE 

1% cups tomatoes 1 teaspoon sugar 

% cup hot water ^/^ teaspoon salt 

1 slice onion V^ teaspoon paprika 

1 clove 2 tablespoons bacon fat 

4 tablespoons flour 

Simmer tomatoes, water, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and press through a sieve; thicken with bacon 
fat and flour blended together, and cook five minutes. If 
tomatoes are very acid, add a pinch of soda. 

204.— SAUCE FOR ROAST PORK OR GOOSE 

Pour off most of fat in the pan, leaving two tablespoons ; 
add three tablespoons of flour and one and a half cups of 
boiling water, and stir until smooth. Season with one- 
third teaspoon salt and one teaspoon each of mixed mus- 
tard, vinegar, and Brand's A 1 sauce. 



86 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

205.— SHARP SAUCE 

V/z cups vinegar % teaspoon paprika 

1 tart apple chopped fine IV2 teaspoons Worcestersliire 

1 onion chopped fine sauce 

y^ teaspoon salt 1% cups brown sugar 

iy2 teaspoons cornstarch 

Heat vinegar, add apple, onion, and seasonings; wlieu 
boiling stir in the sugar and cornstarch mixed together; 
cook fifteen minutes. Serve cold with ham or pork. 

206.— SOUBISE SAUCE 

Follow recipe for White Sauce (see No. 207), and add 
one-fourth cup of stock, and three onions which have been 
cooked until tender in boiling salted water and then 
drained and chopped. 

207.— WHITE SAUCE 

. 2 tablespoons shortening 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons flour % teaspoon salt 

Ys teaspoon pepper 

Melt shortening, add fllour, and stir until well blended ; 
add milk and seasonings, and beat with wire whisk until 
smooth. For a thin sauce, use one and one-half table- 
spoons flour. 

208.— BREAD STUFFING 

y^ cup beef drippings or % teaspoon salt 

bacon fat % teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon grated onion 2 teaspoons poultry 

2 cups soft stale bread seasoning 

crumbs % cup boiling water 

Melt fat in the frying pan, add onion and crumbs, and 
stir until crumbs begin to brown ; add seasonings and boil- 
ing water; cool slightly before using. 



SAUCES AND STUFFINGS 87 

209.— CRUST STUFFING 

3 cups bread crusts broken 1 cup boiling water 

and dried in oven 1 tablespoon grated onion 

y2 teaspoon salt V^ teaspoon pepper . 

y^ cup sausage fat 1 tablespoon poultry seasoning 

Put crusts in a bowl, add salt, sausage fat, and boiling 
water; let stand ten minutes; mix well, and add sea- 
sonings. 

810— FISH STUFFING (Bread) 

2 tablespoons shortening Ys teaspoon pepper 

1 cup soft stale bread 1 teaspoon grated onion 

crumbs 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 

y^ teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped pickles 

y^ cup boiling water 

Melt shortening, add crumbs, and stir until crumbs 
are golden brown, then add seasonings and water. The 
pickles may be omitted, or capers may be used in place 
of them. 

211.— PEANUT STUFFING 

1 cup dried bread crumbs % cup shelled peanuts 
% cup Loiling water % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons bacon fat % teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon grated onion 

Mix bread crumbs with boiling water and bacon fat, 
add peanuts finely chopped, and seasonings. 



CHAPTER XI 
EGGS 

212.— BOILED EGGS 

For a soft-boiled egg, place egg in rapidly boiling water 
and boil from three to five minutes. For hard-boiled eggs, 
place in rapidly boiling water and boil twenty minutes, 
or cover with boiling water and cook in the double boiler 
one hour. For a soft-cooked egg, not boiled, place egg 
in a small saucepan of boiling water, cover, and let stand 
on back of range from six to eight minutes, when the 
albumen should be evenly coagulated throughout. The 
time for cooking in this way will depend upon the number 
of eggs to be cooked, the size of the saucepan, and the 
amount of boiling water. For uniform results, use 
medium-sized eggs, cook in the same pan, and measure 
the quantity of water each time. Thus you can find the 
exact time required to cook the eggs as desired. 

213.— CREAMY EGGS ON TOAST 

4 eggs 2 cups hot milk 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon butter 

Vs teaspoon pepper 4 slices toast 

Beat eggs slightly, add salt and pepper, and stir into 
the hot milk ; cook over hot water, stirring constantly until 
mixture is thick and creamy. Add butter, and serve on 
toast. 

88 



EGGS 89 

214.— CREOLE EGGS 

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups tomato 

1 tablespoon chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

onion 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

1 tablespoon chopped sauce 

green pepper 3 eggs 

2 tablespoons cheese 

Cook onion and pepper in butter for five minutes ; add 
tomato and seasonings, and when thoroughly heated add 
the eggs unbeaten; pick up with a fork until eggs are 
nearly cooked; add cheese, and cook about one minute. 
Serve on toast, or with a border of boiled rice. 

215.— EGGS WITH CHEESE AND SPAGHETTI 

2Vi tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
4 tablespoons flour sauce 

2 cups hot milk V^ teaspoon onion juice 
y^ teaspoon paprika % cup cheese cut fine 
% teaspoon salt 1 cup cooked spaghetti 

3 hard-cooked eggs sliced 

Melt butter, add flour; when well blended add milk 
gradually and stir until smooth; add seasonings and 
cheese, and stir until cheese melts; add spaghetti and 
eggs, cook two minutes, and serve on toast or crackers. 

216.— EGGS WITH HAM AND TOMATO 

% can tomatoes % cup chopped cooked ham 

1 slice onion 3 beaten eggs 

4 cloves Ys teaspoon pepper 

% teaspoon salt 

Cook tomatoes, onion, and cloves fifteen minutes, and 
rub through a sieve; add ham, eggs, and seasonings, and 
cook three or four minutes, stirring all the time. Serve 
on toast or crackers. 



90 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

217.— BREAD OMELET 

2 tablespoons bacon fat % cup hot milk 
% cup soft stale bread V2 teaspoon salt 

crumbs ^ teaspoon paprika 

3 eggs 

Melt fat in frying pan, add bread crumbs, and stir 
until crumbs begin to brown ; add hot milk, and let stand 
five minutes; add salt and paprika, and the yolks beaten 
until thick and light ; fold in the stiffly beaten whites, pour 
into a hot greased omelet pan, and cook the same as Light 
Omelet (see No. 222). 

218.— CREAMY OMELET 

3 eggs % teaspoon salt 

1 cup White Sauce (see % teaspoon pepper 
No. 207) 

Beat yolks until thick and light ; add to sauce and mix 
well; add salt and pepper to whites of eggs, beat until 
stiff and dry, and fold into sauce ; pour into a hot greased 
omelet pan, and cook slowly until well risen and firm; 
put on oven grate for a minute or two to dry the top ; fold, 
and turn on a hot platter. 

219.-.FRENCH OMELET 

1 tablespoon butter or % teaspoon salt 

bacon fat % teaspoon pepper 

4 eggs % cup hot water 

Heat fat in the omelet pan; beat the eggs until yolks 
and whites are well mixed, but not light ; add seasonings 
and hot water, pour into hot pan and cook slowly; pick 
up with fork while cooking, letting the uncooked mixture 
run into the place of the cooked; when firm and lightly 
browned, fold double, and serve plain on a hot platter; 



EGGS 91 

or spread before folding with left-over bits of meat 
chopped, such as ham, bacon, or sausage, or with grated 
cheese or jelly., 

280.— FRENCH CHEESE OMELET 

4 eggs slightly beaten Vs teaspoon pepper 

% teaspoon salt ^/^ cup hot water 

% cup grated cheese 

Mix in order given, pour into a hot greased omelet pan ; 
as mixture thickens, pick up with a fork, letting the un- 
cooked part take the place of the cooked ; when firm, fold, 
and serve on a hot platter. 

281.— HAM OMELET 

% cup stale bread crumbs % teaspoon salt 
% cup hot milk % teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon butter 3 eggs 

% cup cooked ham finely chopped 

Mix crumbs, milk, butter, and seasonings, and let stand 
five minutes ; add egg yolks beaten until thick and light ; 
add the meat, and fold in the whites of eggs beaten stiflf ; 
pour into a hot greased omelet pan and cook slowly until 
firm; fold, and serve at once. A white sauce or tomato 
sauce may be served around it. A few pieces of cooked 
bacon chopped fine may be used instead of ham. 

888.— LIGHT OMELET 

1 tablespoon bacon fat % teaspoon pepper 

Yolk» of 4 eggs ' % cup hot water 

% teaspoon salt Whites of 4 eggs 

Put fat in omelet pan ; beat yolks until light and thick, 
add seasonings and hot water; fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites, and pour into the hot omelet pan ; cook slowly until 
well risen and firm, or about twelve minutes, placing 



92 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

the pan on the upper grate in the oven for the last two 
minutes. When firm in the center, fold double, turn on 
a hot platter, and serve at once, either plain or with sauce. 
The omelet must be cooked slowly so that it will be firm 
throughout, and not fall. 

White Sauce (see No. 207), either plain or with bits 
of cold meat, oysters, peas, or other left-over vegetables, 
or Brown Sauce (see No. 185) with a few mushrooms 
or chopped kidneys (see No. 164), or almost any savory 
sauce, improves an omelet, and also makes it go further. 

223.— SALMON OMELET 

1 tablespoon butter % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour % can salmon 
^ cup milk 2 eggs 

Melt butter, stir in flour, add milk, and stir until 
smooth ; add salt ; rinse salmon with hot water ; flake, and 
add to sauce ; beat yolks of eggs until light and thick, and 
add to sauce; fold in whites of eggs beaten very stiff. 
Pour into a hot greased omelet pan, and cook slowly until 
well risen and firm; finish cooking on top grate of oven 
for a minute or two ; fold, and serve on a hot platter. 

224.— SCALLOPED EGGS WITH CHEESE 

4 hard-cooked eggs % cup cheese cut fine 

2 cups White Sauce (see V^ cup Buttered Crumbs (see 
No. 207) No. 472) 

Cut eggs in eighths lengthwise ; put half of them into a 
greased baking dish, cover with half of sauce, and sprinkle 
with half of cheese ; repeat ; cover with crumbs, and bake 
about fifteen minutes, or until crumbs are brown. Bacon 
or sausage fat may be used in making the white sauce. 



EGGS 93 

889.— SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH SAUSAGES 

4 small sausages Y^ teaspoon salt 

3 eggs \i cup water 

Cut sausages in half-inch bias pieces, and cook in a 
frying pan until brown ; beat eggs until light, add salt and 
water, pour over sausages, and scramble until firm. 
Garnish with toast points and parsley. 

886.— SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATO 

^ can condensed tomato Vs teaspoon soda 

soup 4 eggs slightly beaten 

6 slices buttered toast 

Heat soup in an omelet pan; add soda, and stir while 
foaming; add eggs, scramble slowly with a fork until firm, 
and serve on toast. Garnish with toast points. 

887.— SHIRRED EGGS 

Grease individual egg shirrers or a platter which can 
be put in oven ; cover bottom of dish with white sauce or 
left-over gravy, sprinkle with left-over vegetables or bits 
of meat chopped ; carefully break an egg into dish for each 
person, dust with salt and pepper; sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven until egg is set. 

888.— SHIRRED EGGS WITH HAM 

1 cup finely chopped % cup Buttered Crumbs (see 

cooked ham No. 472) 

1 cup soft bread crumbs 4 eggs 

% cup milk Salt and pepper 

Mix ham, soft crumbs, and milk, and spread in four 
buttered egg shirrers ; make a hollow in the middle, break 
an egg into it, season lightly with salt and pepper, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake until egg is set. 



94. BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

229.— SOUFFL^ED EGG WITH HAM TOAST 

For each person cut a round of bread three inches in 
diameter ; spread with finely chopped ham moistened with 
milk, stock, or gravy; add a few grains of salt to the 
white of an egg, and beat very stiff ; mound on ham, make 
a depression in the center, put in the yolk, dust lightly 
with salt and pepper, and bake in a moderate oven until 
egg is firm. When several pieces of toast are to be made, 
keep the yolks in separate dishes until needed, but beat 
the whites together. 

230.— SHIRRED EGGS WITH POTATO AND HAM 

See recipe for Baked Ham and Potato (No. 171). 



CHAPTEB Xn 
CHEESE AND NUTS 

281.— CHEESE CROUSTADES 

1% cups cheese cut fine ^ teaspoon paprika 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon Brand's Al sauce 

y^ teaspoon mustard 3 tablespoons milk or cream 

Mix in order given; fill Croustades (see No. 473), and 
put in a hot oven until cheese melts. Serve immediately, 
before cheese toughens. 

888.— CHEESE CUSTARD 

1 cup soft bread crumbs V^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup cheese cut fine % teaspoon soda 

% teaspoon mustard 1 egg slightly beaten 

% teaspoon paprika 1 cup hot milk 

Mix in order given, turn into a greased baking dish, 
and bake in a slow oven twenty-five minutes. 

883.— CHEESE FONDUE 

% cup dried bread crumbs M teaspoon paprika 

% cup boiling water 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon butter % cup milk 

1 cup cheese cut fine Yolks of two eggs 

% teaspoon salt Whites of two eggs 

Mix in the order given, beating the yolks until thick 
and light, and the whites until very stiff; pour into a 
greased baking dish, bake twenty-five minutes in a slow 
oven, and serve at once. 

d6 



96 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

234.— COTTAGE CHEESE 

1 quart thick sour milk % tablespoon soft butter 
1 quart boiling water % teafspoon salt 

Put milk in a large bowl, add boiling water, and let 
stand five minutes; pour into cheesecloth bag, and drain 
over night or for several hours. Mix cheese with butter 
and salt, press into a small bowl, and chill. A sweet red 
pepper (canned) may be pressed through a sieve and 
mixed with cheese. 



235.— CRACKERS AND CHEESE BAKED IN MILK 

Split butter crackers, spread with butter and grated 
cheese, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put in a buttered 
baking dish, cover with milk, and bake about twenty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 

236.— CHEESE PASTE 

% pound American cheese 2 teaspoons Worcestershire 

1 cake cream cheese sauce 

2 pimientos % teaspoon salt 

% cup cream 

Chop American cheese and pimientos, using the finest 
cutter in the food chopper; add cream cheese and season- 
ings, and blend with cream until smooth. 

237.— BAKED RICE WITH CHEESE 

2 cups cooked rice % teaspoon salt 

% cup grated cheese % teaspoon pepper 

% cup hot milk 

Arrange rice and cheese in layers in a greased baking 
dish; sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with milk, and 
bake in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 



CHEESE AND NUTS 97 

838.— SCALLOPED TOAST AND CHEESE 

4 slices of toast 1 egg beaten 

1 cup cheese cut fine V^ teaspoon salt 

V/2 cups milk % teaspoon mustard 

Butter toast, cut each slice into four pieces, and arrange 
in a baking dish in layers sprinkled with cheese; mix 
milk, egg, and seasonings, pour over toast, and let stand 
fifteen minutes. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. 

239.— TOMATO RAREBIT 

1 can condensed tomato ^/^ cup soft bread crumbs 
soup % pound cheese cut fine 

% teaspoon mustard 

Heat soup, add bread crumbs, cheese, and mustard; 
stir until cheese melts, and serve on toast or crackers. 

240.— WELSH RAREBIT 

1 tablespoon butter l^ teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon flour Y^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup hot milk % teaspoon soda 

% pound cheese cut fine Dash of cayenne 

% teaspoon mustard 1 beaten egg 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well mixed add milk, 
and stir until smooth; add cheese and seasonings, and 
cook until cheese is melted; add egg, cook two or three 
minutes, and serve on hot toast or crisp pilot crackers. 
The egg may be omitted. 

241.— SALTED ALMONDS 

1 cup almonds (shelled) 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 

Cover almonds with boiling water and let stand on back 
of range for ten minutes ; slip off the skins, and dry for 



98 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

several hours, or over night; melt butter, add almonds 

and salt, and mix well ; spread in a dripping pan, and 

bake in a slow oven fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring 

occasionally. When prepared in this way nuts will keep 

crisp. 

242.— PEANUT BUTTER 

2 quarts lightly roasted 1 teaspoon salt 

peanuts Cream or melted butter 

Bemove shells and skins of peanuts, and put through 

the food chopper twice, using first a coarse cutter, and 

then the finest cutter; add salt, and enough cream or 

melted butter to make a smooth paste. 

243.— TO SHELL CHESTNUTS 

Cover with boiling water, boil ten minutes, drain, and 
cover with cold water. Remove the shell with a knife, 
beginning at top of nut. The inner skin will come off 
with the shell. 

244.— BAKED CHESTNUTS 

1 pint chestnuts 1 tablespoon butter 
1% cups hot ham stock % teaspoon pepper 

Shell chestnuts, put in baking dish with stock, butter, 

and pepper; cover, and bake in hot oven about half an 

hour, or until soft; remove cover, and brown. If stock 

is very salt, dilute with water or milk. 

245.— CELERY, NUT. AND POTATO LOAF 

2 cups celery cut in half- 2 tablespoons butter 

inch pieces 1 egg slightly beaten 

% cup chopped nut meats 1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups hot mashed potato % teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon grated onion 

Cook celery in boiling salted water about half an hour, 

or until tender, and drain ; add other ingredients in order 



CHEESE AND NUTS 99 

given; mix well; pack in deep greased pan^ and bake in 
a moderate oven about half an hour. Turn out on platter, 
and serve with Creole Sauce (see No. 191) or Tomato 
Sauce (see No. 203). 

a4e.— NUT LOAF 

2 eups soft stale bread % teaspoon poultry seasoning 
crumbs % teaspoon paprika 

1 cup nut meats finely 1 egg slightly beaten 

chopped 3 tablespoons sausage fat or 

1 teaspoon salt butter 

% cup boiling water 

Mix in order given; pack in a deep greased pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven half an hour. Turn out on 
platter, and serve with Cheese Sauce (see No. 188). 



CHAPTER Xni 
VEGETABLES ^ 

247.— BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 quart pea beans % teaspoon soda 

1 tablespoon salt ^ cup molasses 

1 teaspoon dry mustard % pound fat salt pork 

Soak beans in cold water over night ; drain, cover with 
cold water, heat to boiling point, and simmer until beans 
are very tender but not broken ; place in an earthen bean 
pot, add seasonings and pork (which has been scalded, 
scraped, and scored in half-inch squares) ; fill pot with 
boiling water, cover, and bake slowly for eight hours. 
Uncover for the last hour. Replenish water as needed. 

248.— THICK PUREE OF BLACK BEANS 

^ cups beans V4, teaspoon mustard 

1 onion % teaspoon salt 

1 carrot % teaspoon pepper 

^ bay leaf 3 tablespoons bacon fat 

1 quart boiling water 

Soak beans over night in cold water; drain, add sea- 
sonings, bacon fat, and water, and simmer two hours; 
remove onion, carrot, and bay leaf, and press through a 
sieve. Beat well, and serve with lamb or mutton. 

* For cooking common vegetables for which recipes are not given 
in this chapter, see Time Table for Cooking (page 240). 

XOO 



VEGETABLES 101 

349.— LIMA BEAN LOAF 

1 cup dried Lima beans ^^ teaspoon paprika 

1 onion 1 egg slightly beaten 

1 carrot 2 tablespoons sausage fat or 

1 cup dried sifted crumbs butter 

1 teaspoon salt V2 cup boiling water 

y^ teaspoon mustard 6 pimolas 

Soak beans over night in cold water, and drain; cover 
with boiling water, add onion and carrot, and cook until 
beans are tender ; drain, and put through the food chopper 
with carrot and onion ; add crumbs, seasonings, egg, and 
sausage fat melted in boiling water; add pimolas cut in 
small pieces, mix well, pack in a greased bread pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven half an hour. Serve with Tomato 
Sauce (see No. 203). 



250.— BAKED CABBAGE 

Cut a small white cabbage in inch pieces, soak in cold 
water half an hour, and drain ; parboil ten minutes, place 
in greased baking dish, cover with one cup of White Sauce 
(see No. 207), and one-half cup of Buttered Crumbs (see 
No. 472) ; bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 

251.— CABBAGE COOKED IN MILK 

Put a small white cabbage through the food chopper, 
using the coarse cutter; soak in cold water half an hour, 
drain, cover with equal parts of milk and water, and cook 
uncovered about twenty-five minutes, or until cabbage is 
tender. Season with salt and pepper. 



102 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

252.— BRAISED CELERY 

1 quart celery cut in 2- 1 tablespoon grated onion 

inch lengths 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons bacon 'fat 2 cups stock 

Cook celery, bacon fat, and onion in the frying pan for 
ten minutes; dredge with flour, put in baking dish, add 
stock (first rinsing frying pan with a little of it), cover, 
and bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half. Serve 
on toast. Add salt to stock if necessary. 

258.— CREAMED CELERY ROOT (Celeriac) WITH 

CHEESE 

Peel celery root, cut in half-inch cubes, and cook until 
tender in boiling salted water, to which a tablespoon of 
vinegar has been added. To three cups of root add one 
and one-half cups of White Sauce (see No. 207) ; put 
into a baking dish, sprinkle with a third of a cup of grated 
cheese, and place in a hot oven until cheese melts. Celery 
may be used in place of celery root. 

254.— SOUTHERN CORN PUDDING 

1 tablespoon bacon fat 1 egg well beaten 

% green pepper chopped 1 cup milk 

1 slice onion chopped ^2 teaspoon salt 

1 can corn chopped ^/i teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons dried bread 2 slices bacon chopped fine 

crumbs 

Cook pepper and onion in bacon fat five minutes ; add 
corn, crumbs, egg, milk, and seasonings; pour into a 
greased baking dish, sprinkle with the chopped bacon, and 
bake in a slow oven until firm, or about twenty-five 
minutes. 



VEGETABLES 108 

S65._CUCUMBERS SAUTEED 

Peel two cucumbers, cut in halves crosswise, slice in 
one-third-inch slices lengthwise, and soak in salted water 
for one hour; drain, dry, dip in flour seasoned with salt 
and pepper, and saute in hot fat until brown. Serve on 
toast 

856.— CARROTS SAUTEED 

Select very small carrots; wash, scrape, and cook until 
tender in boiling salted water. Drain, dredge with flour, 
and saute in fat until brown. 

S67.— CARROTS VINAIGRETTE 

4 cups carrots cut in half- ^/^ cup vinegar 

inch cubes % cup brown sugar 

1 tablespoon shortening 

Cook carrots in boiling salted water until tender, and 

drain; heat vinegar^ sugar, and shortening to the boiling 

point, add carrots, and cook slowly half an hour, stirring 

occasionally. 

858.— BAKED EGG PLANT 

1 small egg plant 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion finely chopped V^ teaspoon paprika 

1 cup soft stale bread % cup boiling water 

crumbs 2 tablespoons butter 

Pare and slice egg plant, cut into half-inch cubes, soak 
in cold salted water half an hour, and drain; mix with 
onion, crumbs, and seasonings, and put into a greased 
baking dish ; add boiling water, dot over with butter, and 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

859.— FRIED EGG PLANT 

Cut a small egg plant in one-third-inch slices; pare; 
cut each slice in quarters; soak in cold salted water for 



104 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

half an hour ; drain ; season with pepper and salt, dip in 
crumbs, then in egg, and then in crumbs again; and fry 
in deep fat about three minutes. Or dip in flour and 
saute in butter. 

260.— EGG PLANT JULIENNE 

Cut egg plant in two-inch slices, and pare; cut into 
quarter-inch vertical slices, and cut slices into quarter-inch 
strips ; soak in cold salted water for half an hour ; drain ; 
dry, and fry in deep fat about three minutes. 

261.— CREAMED LEEKS 

Cut off tops of two bunches of leeks, and soak in cold 
water ten minutes ; drain, and cook in jpoiling salted water 
about twenty minutes, or until tender; drain, and serve 
with White Sauce (see No. 207). The tops may be used 
for flavoring soups. 

262.— ONIONS IN POTATO NESTS 

1 quart small white % teaspoon pepper 

onions 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon butter % cup hot milk 

6 potatoes 1 tablespoon chopped 

^ teaspoon salt parsley- 

Peel onions and cook in boiling salted water about one 
hour, or until tender; drain, and add butter. Pare, boil, 
and mash potatoes, season with pepper and salt, add butter 
and hot milk, and beat until light ; shape potato into small 
nests with a spoon, or force through a bag and a rose tube. 
Fill with onions and sprinkle with parsley. 

263.— GREEN PEAS (Canned) 

Remove from can and rinse with cold water; put in 
saucepan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling point, 



VEGETABLES 105 

and drain. Season with one-half teaspoon salt, one-fourth 
teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon butter, and two table- 
spoons of milk. 

264.— PEAS AND LETTUCE 

1 head lettuce 1 teaspoon sugar 
V2 cup stock or water 1 tablespoon butter 
% teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon flour 
Ys teaspoon pepper 1 can peas 

1 sprig mint 

Wash lettuce, drain, and chop; add stock and salt, and 
simmer half an hour ; add pepper and sugar, and thicken 
with butter and flour blended together; add peas drained 
from their liquor, and mint, and simmer ten minutes. 
Remove mint before serving. 

265.— STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

6 green pepi)ers 1 cup cooked rice 

2 tablespoons bacon fat V2 cup tomatoes 
1 teaspoon grated onion ^/^ teaspoon salt 

y^ cup buttered crumbs 

Cut off one inch of the tops of peppers, and chop the 
tops; remove seeds and veins from peppers, scald with 
boiling water, and drain ; cook chopped pepper with onion 
in the bacon fat for five minutes ; add rice, tomatoes, and 
salt; fill peppers, cover with crumbs, place in a baking 
dish or in individual ramekins, and bake in a moderate 
oven half an hour. 

266.— BOILED POTATOES 

Wash potatoes, pare as thin as possible, remove the 
eyes, and soak in cold water from fifteen minutes to one 
hour, according to the age of the potato; cook in boiling 



106 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

salted water about half an hour^ or until tender, allowing 
one tablespoon of salt to two quarts of boiling water. 
Drain, and dry on the back of the range or in tho front 
of the oven with the door open. Serve very hot in an 
uncovered dish. 

S67.— BAKED POTATOES 

Select medium-sized potatoes, scrub well, place in tin 
pan, and bake in a hot oven for about forty minutes. 

268.— CREAMED POTATOES 

2 cups raw potato balls or 1 cup White Sauce (see No. 

half-inch cubes 207) 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon finely chopped 

parsley 

Cook potatoes with the onion in boiling salted water 
until tender; drain; remove the onion, mix with sauce, 
and sprinkle with parsley. If potato balls are used, cover 
unused potato with water and save for soup. 

269.— POTATO CROUTONS 

Cut potatoes in one-third-inch cubes, rinse with cold 
water, dry in a towel, and fry about two minutes in 
deep fat. 

270.— FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Wash and pare medium-sized potatoes, cut in eigjiths 
lengthwise, and soak in cold water for half an hour; 
drain, dry, and fry in deep fat about seven minutes ; drain 
on soft paper, and sprinkle with salt. Cook only one 
layer in the basket at a time. 

271.— HASHED BROWN POTATOES 

Melt in the frying pan four tablespoons sausage fat, 
beef drippings, or other fat ; add two cups chopped boiled 



VEGETABLES 107 

potatoes, season, and cook slowly twenty minutes^ or 
until well browned ; fold double, and garnish with parsley. 

272.— LYONNAISE POTATOES 

4 boiled potatoes Ys teaspoon pepper 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sausage fat 

2 slices onion finely chopped 

Cut potatoes in half-inch cubes, and season with salt 
and pepper; put fat in frying pan, add onion, and cook 
slowly for ten minutes; add potatoes, stir well, and cook 
for ten minutes without browning. 

273..PAN.ROASTED POTATOES (Franconia) 

Prepare potatoes as for boiling (see No. 266), boil ten 
minutes, drain, and cook in roasting pan with meat about 
forty minutes; baste often with fat in pan. 

274.— SCALLOPED POTATOES WITH CHEESE 

Wash and pare four potatoes, cut in very thin slices^ 
put half of them in a greased baking dish; dredge with 
flour, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and two tablespoons 
grated cheese; repeat; cover with hot milk, and bake in 
a moderate oven one hour, or until potatoes are tender. 
Very old potatoes should not be used in this way. 

275.— SCALLOPED POTATOES WITH PEPPERS AND 

CHEESE 

1 quart half -inch potato 2 cups hot milk 

cubes % teaspoon salt 

1 onion chopped % teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons bacon fat 2 canned red peppers 
4 tablespoons flour V^ cup grated cheese 

% cup buttered crumbs 

Cook potatoes and onion in boiling salted water twenty 
minutes, and drain; melt bacon fat, add flour, and blend 



108 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

well; add milk and stir until smooth; add salt, paprika, 
peppers chopped, and cheese; mix with potatoes; turn 
into a greased baking dish, cover with Buttered Crumbs 
(see 'No. 472), and bake fifteen minutes, or until brown. 

276.— STUFFED POTATOES WITH CHEESE AND 

BACON 

4 large potatoes % teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons grated % teaspoon paprika 

cheese Y^ cup hot milk 

4 slices bacon 

Wash potatoes and bake in a hot oven forty-five min- 
utes; cut in halves lengthwise, remove potato, and force 
through potato ricer; add cheese, seasonings, and hot 
milk, beat vigorously, and refill potato skins; place half 
a slice of bacon on top of each, and put on the upper grate 
of a hot oven until bacon is crisp. 

277.— STUFFED POTATOES WITH NUTS AND 

CHEESE 

4 hot baked potatoes % tablespoon butter 

% cup nuts chopped fine % teaspoon, salt 

y^ cup grated cheese % teaspoon pepper 

y^ cup milk Butter and paprika 

Cut potatoes in halves lengthwise, remove potato, and 
mash; add nuts, cheese, milk, butter, and seasonings, and 
beat until very light ; refill shells, heaping mixture in the 
center, make a slight depression with spoon, put in a small 
bit of butter, sprinkle with paprika, and brown in a hot 
oven. 

278.— FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes into eighths lengthwise, 
fry in deep fat until brown, drain on soft paper, and 
sprinkle with salt. 



VEGETABLES 109 

879.^GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cooked sweet potatoes in one-third-inch slices length- 
wise, put in a greased dripping pan, brush with melted 
butter or drippings, sprinkle thickly with brown sugar, 
and bake in a hot oven until glazed with melted sugar. 

280.— SWEET POTATO CUSTARD 

3 cooked sweet potatoes ^ nutmeg grated 

2 eggs %, cup brown sugar 
% teaspoon salt 1 quart milk 

Force potatoes through a ricer ; beat the eggs and mi 
with potato; add other ingredients, pour into buttered 
baking dish or cups, and bake in a slow oven until 
firm. 

281.— STUFFED SWEET POTATOES 

3 medium-sized baked Vs teaspoon pepper 

sweet potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

% teaspoon salt ^4 cup milk 

Powdered sugar 

Cut baked potatoes in halves lengthwise ; mash potatoes, 
add salt, pepper, butter, and milk, and beat well; fill 
potato shells lightly, sprinkle thickly with sugar, and bake 
in a hot oven until brown. Sliced marshmallows may be 
used instead of sugar. 

282.— CREAMED SALSIFY (Oyster Plant) 

Cut off the tops of a bunch of salsify; scrape, cut in 
quarter-inch slices, and keep white by putting in cold 
water with a tablespoon of vinegar in it until ready to 
cook; drain; cook in boiling salted water about twenty- 
five minutes, or until tender ; drain, and mix with one cup 
of White Sauce (see No. 207). 



no BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

283^SPINACH 

Pick over spinach, and wash well in several waters;* 
put in kettle without water, cover, and cook about half 
an hour, or until tender; chop fine and season with salt, 
pepper, and butter. A thin slice of fat salt pork or a 
tablespoon of bacon fat may be cooked with spinach if 
preferred. In that case, omit butter. Or cook in ham or 
corned beef stock, drain, and season only with pepper. 
Garnish with thin slices of hard-cooked egg, or sprinkle 
with the yolk of egg pressed through a sieve. 

284.^BAKED WINTER SQUASH 

Cut half a small squash into four pieces, scrape out 
seeds and stringy part, put in a pan, shell side up, and 
bake in a hot oven about forty minutes. Remove from 
shell with a spoon, press through a sieve, season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, and serve. Or put in a greased baking 
dish, cover with Buttered Crumbs (see No. 472), and 
bake until crumbs are brown. 

285.— PLYMOUTH SUCCOTASH 

% cup dried Lima beans % teaspoon pepper 

Corned beef stock * % cup corned beef cut in small 

% can corn pieces 

Soak beans over night, drain, cover with cold water, 
and cook one hour; drain, cover with stock, and cook 
until tender ; add corn, pepper, and meat, and simmer ten 
minutes. Add salt if necessary. Any stock or left-over 
bits of meat may be used. 



VEGETABLES 111 

886.— BAKED TOMATOES 

Cut four tomatoes in halves crosswise, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cover with buttered crumbs ; bake in 
a hot oven about twenty minutes, and serve with Mustard 
Pickle Sauce (see No. 200) or cooked salad dressing. 

2S7.-.TOMATO CUSTARD 

1 can tomatoes 4 cloves 

1 cup water V^ bay leaf 

1% teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

^ teaspoon pepper %, cup cracker dust 

2 slices onion 2 eggs 

Simmer tomatoes, water, and seasonings for fifteen 
minutes, and press through a sieve; add crumbs and 
slightly beaten eggs, and bake in greased custard cups 
about twenty minutes, or until firm; turn out on platter 
and pour Cheese Sauce (see No. 188) around them. 

288.— FRIED GREEN TOMATOES 

Wipe tomatoes, cut in thick slices, season with salt and 
pepper, dip first in flour, then in egg, then in crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat until brown. Or season, dip in flour only, 
and saute in butter. 

289.— STEWED TOMATOES 

1 can tomatoes, or ^ teaspoon pepper 

6 ripe tomatoes ^ teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon sugar % cup bread crust crumbs 

Put tomatoes in a stew pan ; if fresh tomatoes are used, 
scald, peel, and cut in pieces. Add seasonings, except 
pepper, and cook slowly for thirty minutes; add butter 
and crumbs just before serving. 



112 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

290.— STUFFED TOMATOES 

Select six medium-sized tomatoes ; cut a thin slice from 
the top of each, and remove the pulp; rub slices through 
a sieve, and add to pulp ; add one cup soft stale bread 
crumbs, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, and one tablespoon tomato ketchup; mix well, fill 
tomatoes, cover with Buttered Crumbs (see No. 472), 
and bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 

291.— CREAMED WHITE TURNIPS 

Cook two cups of half-inch cubes of white turnip in 
boiling salted water half an hour, or until tender; drain, 
and mix with one cup of White Sauce (see No. 207). 

292.— VEGETABLE HASH 

2 cups cooked cabbage 1 tablespoon grated onion 

1 cup cooked potatoes Ys teaspoon pepper 

1 cup cooked turnips 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup cooked beets 2 tablespoons beef drippings 

% cup stock or water 

Mix vegetables and seasonings ; melt fat in frying pan, 
add vegetables and stock ; cook slowly half an hour. Fold, 
and serve on a hot dish. If vegetables are left from a 
boiled dinner, omit salt. 



V 



CHAPTER XIV 
CEREALS, MACARONI, AND RICE 

293_CORN MEAL MUSH 

B^ cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup fine corn meal 

Add meal to boiling salted water by sifting it slowly 
through the fingers,' while stirring rapidly with the other 
hand. Boil for ten minutes, and cook over hot water for 
two hours. Serve hot as a cereal. Or pour into one-pound 
baking powder boxes to cool ; slice, dip in flour, and saute 
in butter; or dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve either for breakfast, or as an accompaniment to 
roast pork, or, with sirup, for dessert. 

294.— STEAMED HOMINY 

4 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup fine hominy 

Put salt and boiling water in top of double boiler, place 
in direct contact with range, sift in hominy slowly, and 
boil for ten minutes, stirring often ; cover, and cook over 
hot water two hours. 

295.— SCALLOPED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

1% cups elbow macaroni % cup cheese cut fine 

1 onion i/4 teaspoon mustard 

1 cup White Sauce (see % cup Buttered Crumbs (see 
No. 207) No. 472) 

Cook macaroni and onion in boiling salted water until 
tender, and drain; remove onion, add cheese and mustard 

113 



lU BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

to sauce and mix with macaroni; turn into a greased 
baking dish, cover with crumbs, and bake in a moderate 
oven until crumbs are brown. 



296.^NOODLE PASTE 

1 egg y^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon water Bread flour 

Beat egg slightly, add water, salt, and flour enough to 
make a very stiff dough; knead well for three minutes, 
adding flour if necessary. Roll out as thin as possible; 
cut in fancy shapes with small vegetable cutter; or roll 
like a jelly roll and cut thin slices from the end. Cook 
in soup, or in boiling salted water. If served as a vege- 
table, season with butter, salt, and pepper, or serve with 
White Sauce (see No. 207). 

297.^NOODLE BALLS (for Soup) 

Roll Noodle Paste (see No. 296) very thin, fold double, 
and cut with small round vegetable cutter, or end of pastry 
tube; fry in deep fat until puffed into balls. Drain on 
soft paper. 

298.— SCOTCH OATMEAL 

4 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup oatmeal 

Put water and salt in top of double boiler, place in 
direct contact with range, sift in oatmeal slowly, and boil 
for five minutes, stirring often; cover, and cook over hot 
water four hours, or cook on back of range over night. 



CEREALS, MACARONI, AND RICE ^ 115 

299.— POLENTA WITH CHEESE 

2 cups boiling water 1 cup com meal 

2 cups milk 1 cup cheese grated, or soft 

1 teaspoon salt cheese cut fine 

Heat water and milk to the boiling point, add salt, and 
sift in corn meal very slowly. Cook over hot water two 
hours, or put into a fireless cooker for three hours. When 
cooked, add cheese, pour into a shallow pan until half 
an inch thick. When cold, cut into two-inch squares, dip 
in crumbs, then in egg, and then again in crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat. Or roll in flour and saute in butter. 
Mustard, cayenne, Worcestershire sauce, etc., may be 
added if desired. 



300.— POLENTA WITH DATES 

Prepare recipe for Polenta with Cheese (see No. 299), 
using in place of the cheese one and a half cups of dates, 
which have been washed, stoned, and cut in pieces. Serve 
hot as a cereal or dessert, or in any way in which mush 
is served. Cooked dried peaches, apricots, prunes, or figs 
may be substituted for dates. 

301.— FRENCH FRIED POLENTA 

Prepare recipe for Polenta with Cheese (see No. 299) ; 
pour into a shallow pan until two-thirds of an inch thick ; 
cool; cut into strips about three inches long; dip first in 
crumbs, then in egg, and then again in crumbs; and fry 
in deep fat. 



116 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

802.— SPANISH POLENTA 

4 cups boiling water 1 green pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup corn meal 

1 onion 1 cup cheese cut fine 

Add salt to boiling water; add onion and pepper 
chopped fine; sift in corn meal very slowly, stirring all 
the time. Cook over hot water for two hours ; add cheese, 
and serve hot with Tomato Sauce (see No. 203). 

303.— BAKED RICE AND HAM 

% cup rice 1 tablespoon onion finely 
2% cups stock or water chopped 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons carrot finely 
^ cup cooked ham finely chopped 

chopped 

Wash rice, place in greased baking dish; add liquid, 
ham, vegetables, and salt if necessary. Bake slowly for 
three hours, stirring occasionally during the first hour. 
Ham stock or corned beef stock may be used, and any 
cooked meat substituted for ham. Serve with boiled 
spinach or dressed lettuce. 

304.— BOILED RICE 

Wash one cup rice, and add slowly to two quarts of 
boiling salted water, allowing one tablespoon of salt ; cook 
until tender, pour into strainer, rinse with boiling water, 
and put in oven or on back of range for a few minutes, 
until the grains separate. Very old rice is improved by 
soaking in cold water for an hour or two before cooking. 
Corned beef or ham stock may be used in place of salted 
water. 



CEREALS, MACARONI, AND RICE 117 

805.— RICE AND COCONUT LOAF 

2 cups cooked rice 1 egg slightly beaten 

1 cup stewed and strained ^ teaspoon paprika 

tomatoes V^ teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon grated onion 1 can grated coconut 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons melted bacon fat 

Mix all ingredients except the bacon fat; put into a 
deep greased pan, cover with bacon fat, and bake in a slow 
oven one hour. 

806.—RISOTTO 

% cup rice 1 onion chopped 

1 cup boiling water 1 green pepper chopped 

1 teaspoon salt V^ can tomatoes 

3 tablespoons bacon fat % teaspoon paprika 

Cook rice with boiling water and salt in top of double 
boiler twelve minutes, cook onion and pepper in bacon 
fat ten minutes, stirring often; add tomatoes and paprika, 
mix with rice, and cook forty-five minutes. 

307.— STEAMED SAMP 

% cup samp 2% cups boiling water 

% teaspoon salt 

Wash samp, soak over night in cold water, and drain; 
put boiling water and salt in top of double boiler, and 
place directly on the range; add samp slowly, and boil 
five minutes; place over hot water and cook for four hours. 

808.— CORN MEAL AND BEEF SCRAPPLE 

3% cups corned beef stock 1 cup corned beef cut in small 
1 cup com meal pieces 

Cook meal in stock as directed in Corn Meal Mush 
(see No. 293), add meat, and pour into a deep bread 



118 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

pan; when cold, either slice and serve cold, or dip in 
flour and saute in butter, or dip in crumbs, then in egg, 
and then again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. If stock 
is very salt, dilute with water or milk. Any kind of stock 
or meat may be used in place of corned beef. 

309.— WHEAT AND SAUSAGE SCRAPPLE 

3% cups boiling water 1 cup Cream of Wheat 

1 teaspoon salt ^ pound link sausage 

Stir wheat slowly into boiling salted water, cook five 
minutes, place over hot water, and cook half an hour. 
Cook sausages in frying pan until brown, cut into half- 
inch pieces, add to mush, and pour into deep pan to cool. 
Serve sliced cold, sauteed, or fried. 

310.— BAKED SPAGHETTI AND HAM 

2 cups cooked spaghetti 1^ cups White Sauce (see 
% cup cooked ham finely No. 207) 

chopped 2 tablespoons tomato ketchup 

1 hard-cooked ^g • V^ cup Buttered Crumbs (see 

chopped No. 472) 

Put half of spaghetti into a greased baking dish; mix 
ham and egg, and add half of it to spaghetti ; mix sauce 
and ketchup, and pour half of it over ham ; repeat ; cover 
with crumbs, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

311.— CREOLE SPAGHETTI 

2 cups spaghetti broken 3 tablespoons bacon fat 

in 2-inch pieces 1 cup tomatoes 

1 onion chopped fine % teaspoon salt 

1 green pepper chopped % teaspoon paprika 

fine 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water until tender, and 
drain; cook onion and pepper in bacon fat for ten minutes, 



CEREALS, MACARONI, AND RICE 119 

stirring often; add tomatoes and seasonings, put in top 
of double boiler, add spaghetti, and cook half an hour. 
Macaroni may be used in place of spaghetti. 

312.— ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 

2 cups spaghetti broken 4 cloves 

in 2-inch pieces V2 bay leaf 

% onion 1 can condensed tomato soup 

Vk cup grated cheese 

Cook spaghetti in boiling salted water with the onion, 
cloves, and bay leaf until tender; drain, remove onion, 
cloves, and bay leaf; add soup and cheese, and heat to 
boiling point. One-half can tomatoes seasoned, stewed 
until thick, and pressed through a sieve, may be used in 
place of soup. Macaroni may be used in place of spaghetti. 



CHAPTEE XV 
CEOQUETTES AND FEITTEKS^ 

313.— TO CLARIFY FAT 

Melt fat, add one pared and sliced raw potato, a pinch 
of soda, and a tablespoon of water ; heat slowly, and cook 
until fat stops bubbling; strain through double cheese- 
cloth. 

814.— TO TRY OUT FAT 

Cut any surplus fat into pieces, put into double boiler, 
cover, cook slowly until fat is extracted, and strain through 
double cheesecloth. 

315.— CRUMBS FOR FRIED FOOD 

Dry left-over bits of bread in a slow oven, put through 
food chopper, using finest cutter, and sift through a coarse 
sieve. Keep in covered jars. 

316.— EGG FOR DIPPING FRIED FOOD 

Break egg into a soup plate or similar shallow dish, 
beat enough to mix yolk and white, and add one-fourth 
cup of cold water or one-third cup of milk. Coat food 
thoroughly to prevent soaking fat. 

317.— CHEESE BALLS 

1% cups cheese cut fine V4, teaspoon mustard 
1 tablespoon fiour % teaspoon paprika 

y^ teaspoon salt Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff 

Mix in order given, shape in balls about one inch in 
diameter, roll in sifted crumbs, and fry in deep fat until 
*See Temperatures for Frying (page 242). 

120 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 121 

brown. Drain on soft paper, and serve hot. Serve with 
the salad course or as a savory. 

818.— CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoons shortening 14 teaspoon paprika 

% cup bread flour % teaspoon mustard 

1 cup hot milk Few grains cayenne 
y^ teaspoon salt 1 cup cheese cut fine 

Melt shortening, add flour ; add hot milk, and stir until 
smooth and thick; add seasonings and cheese, and pour 
into a shallow dish to cool. Shape into small pyramids, 
roll in sifted crumbs, dip in egg, and again in crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat until brown. Serve immediately. 

819.— FISH CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold flaked fish Few drops onion juice 
1 tablespoon lemon juice Salt and cayenne 

1 cup Croquette Sauce (see No. 192) 

Use remnants of baked or boiled fish, sprinkle with 
lemon and onion juice, dust lightly with salt and cayenne, 
and mix with sauce. When cold, shape into small cro- 
quettes or cutlets, dip in crumbs, egg, and again in crumbs, 
and fry in hot deep fat one minute. 

820.— MEAT CROQUETTES 

To two cups of cooked meat cut in small pieces add 
one teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and a few drops 
of onion juice; mix with one cup of Croquette Sauce 
(see No. 192) and put on ice until cold. Shape into small 
croquettes or cutlets, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, and again 
in crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. Any left-over meat 
may be used. 



122 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

881.— POTATO AND BEAN CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold baked beans 1 tablespoon Worcestershire or 
1 cup mashed potato Brand's A 1 sauce 

y^ teaspoon paprika Salt if needed 

Press beans through a sieve, add potato and seasonings, 
mix well, and shape into small pyramids. EoU in crumbs, 
dip in egg, roll in crumbs again, and fry in hot deep fat. 
Drain on soft paper, and serve with Tomato Sauce (see 
No. 203). 

882.— RICE CROQUETTES 

1 egg slightly beaten 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

y^ teaspoon salt sauce 

y^ teaspoon onion juice 2 tablespoons cold water 

1 tablespoon tomato ketchup 2 cups cooked rice 

Mix in order given; shape into small pyramids, dip in 
crumbs, egg, and again in crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. 

888.— RICE AND RAISIN CROQUETTES 

% cup rice 1 cup hot milk 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sultana raisins 

Wash rice, stir into boiling salted water, and boil five 
minutes, add milk, butter, and raisins, and cook over hot 
water about twenty-five minutes, or until rice is tender. 
Shape into small pyramids, dip in egg and crumbs, and 
fry in hot deep fat. Serve with Currant Jelly Sauce (see 
No. 608) or Lemon Sauce (see No. 613). 

884.— SALMON AND POTATO CROQUETTES 

Rinse a can of salmon with boiling water, and separate 
into flakes; mix with two cups of hot, well-seasonied 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 123 

mashed potatoes, and a tablespoon of finely chopped mixed 

pickles. Shape into small croquettes, dip in crumbs, egg, 

and then in crumbs again, and fry in hot deep fat one 

minute. 

325.— SLICED APPLE FRITTERS 

1 cup flour 1 egg well beaten 

y^ teaspoon salt % cup cold water 

1 tablespoon sugar 3 tart apples 

Mix and sift flour, salt, and sugar ; add egg and water, 

and beat well; pare, core, and cut apples into half -inch 

slices ; dip in batter until well coated, and fry in hot deep 

fat; drain on soft paper, and dust with powdered sugar. 

Serve with roast pork or sausage, or serve with a liquid 

sauce as an entree or a dessert. 

826.— BANANA FRITTERS 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon powdered sugar 

1^ teaspoons baking 1 egg well beaten 

powder ^ cup cold water 

y^ teaspoon salt 2 bananas 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add egg and water, and 

beat well; press bananas through a sieve, add to batter, 

and drop from a tablespoon into hot deep fat; drain on 

soft paper, dust with powdered sugar, and serve with 

Currant Jelly Sauce (see No. 608), or Lemon Sauce (see 

No, 613), either as an entree or as a dessert. 

827.— CORN FRITTERS 

1 can com % cup milk 

% cup dried and sifted 1 teaspoon salt 

crumbs 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 egg well beaten 1 tablespoon flour 

Chop the corn, and add other ingredients in order given. 

Drop from a tablespoon into hot deep fat and fry until 

brown. Or saute in a hot greased frying pan. 



124 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

328.— CRANBERRY FRITTERS 

1 egg well beaten ^ cup water 
y^ teaspoon salt 1 cup flour 

2 tablespoons sugar 1^ teaspoons baking powder 

^ cup chopped cranberries 

Mix in order given; drop from a tablespoon into hot 
deep fat, cook about three minutes, drain on soft paper, 
and dredge with powdered sugar. 

829.— RICE AND CURRANT FRITTERS 

1 cup flour ^ teaspoon nutmeg 
1% teaspoons baking 1 egg well beaten 

powder % cup cold water 

% teaspoon salt 1 cup cooked rice 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons washed currants 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg and water, and 
beat well; add rice and currants, and drop from a table- 
spoon into hot deep fat ; drain on soft paper, and serve with 
Currant Jelly Sauce (see No. 608), Orange Marmalade 
Sauce (see No. 616), or Lemon Sauce (see No. 613). 

880.— SALMON FRITTERS 

Hi cups flour % cup water 

% teaspoon salt % teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons baking powder % teaspoon onion juice 

1 egg well beaten % can salmon chopped fine 

Sift flour, salt, and baking powder ; add egg, water, and 
seasonings, and beat well; add salmon, and drop from a 
tablespoon into hot deep fat; cook until brown, drain on 
soft paper, and serve with Sauce Tartare (see No. 202) 
or Tomato Sauce (see No. 203). 



CROQUETTES AND FRITTERS 125 

881.— DOUGHNUTS 

2 cups flour % teaspoon nutmeg 

2y2 teaspoons baking ^/^ cup sugar 

powder 1 egg well beaten 

% teaspoon salt ^/^ cup milk 

1 tablespoon melted shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg, milk, and short- 
ening, and mix well ; chill, and roll out on a floured board 
until half an inch thick; cut, and fry in hot deep fat. 
A little more flour may be necessary, but the dough should 
be as soft as can be handled easily. 

882.— SMALL TEA DOUGHNUTS 

Follow recipe for Doughnuts (see No. 331), roll mix- 
ture very thin, cut with a two-inch doughnut cutter, fry, 
and dust with powdered sugar. Or fry the cut-out centers 
of large doughnuts, and roll in powdered sugar. 

888.— FRIED JAM CAKES 

EoU doughnut mixture very thin, and cut with a three- 
inch cookie cutter; put a teaspoon of jam on one half, 
moisten the edges with water, fold double, press edges 
firmly together, and fry in hot deep fat. Dust with pow- 
dered sugar. 



CHAPTER XVI 
SALADS AND SALAD DKESSINGS 

334.— COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

1^ cups hot milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 beaten eggs 2 teaspoons mustard 
1 tablespoon salt Dash of cayenne 

3 tablespoons flour % cup hot vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients, add to egg, and stir into the hot 
milk ; add vinegar slowly, and cook over hot vrater for ten 
minutes, stirring constantly at first. Cool, put into a 
preserve jar, cover, and keep in a cool place. Whipped 
cream may be added, if desired, before using. Allow one 
cup for the whole recipe. Two tablespoons of melted but- 
ter or salad oil may be added, but recipe is very good 
without either. 



335.— COOKED SALAD DRESSING (Evaporated Milk) 

% teaspoon salt 1 beaten egg 

1 teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon melted butter 

ll^ teaspoons sugar % cup evaporated milk 

iy2 teaspoons flour % cup hot water 

Few grains cayenne ^ cup vinegar 

Mix in order given, and cook over hot water for ten 
minutes, stirring constantly at first. 

126 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 127 

886.— CURRANT JELLY DRESSING 

y^ cup currant or any 4 tablespoons oil 

other tart jelly Juice of ^/^ lemon 

2 tablespoons candied Dash of cayenne 
ginger chopped 

Melt the jelly, add ginger, cool slightly ; add oil, lemon 

juice, and cayenne. 

387.— DEVILLED HAM DRESSING 

1 egg %, teaspoon salt 

1 small can devilled ham % teaspoon pepper 

% cup vinegar % teaspoon mustard 

% cup water ^ teaspoon cornstarch 

Beat egg, add ham, vinegar, and water ; mix salt, pepper, 
mustard, and cornstarch; add to ham mixture; and cook 
over hot v^ater ten minutes, 

388.— FRENCH DRESSING 

% cup oil % teaspoon pepper 

% cup vinegar ^4 teaspoon mustard 

1^ teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon powdered sugar 

• Put the ingredients in a pint preserve jar; fasten the 

cover, chill, and shake well before using. Keep in the 

ice-box and use as needed. For use with fruit salad, omit 

mustard. Curry, Brand's A 1 sauce, Worcestershire 

sauce, tomato ketchup, or similar condiments may be added 

in small amounts to vary the flavor. 

889.— MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Yolk of 1 egg 1 teaspoon mustard 

1 teaspoon salt % teaspoon paprika 

% teaspoon powdered 1 cup salad oil 

sugar 2 tablespoons vinegar 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Beat the egg yolk ; add the seasonings ; add oil, a few 

drops at a time, until mixture thickens ; mix vinegar and 



128 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

lemon juice, and add in small quantities, alternating with 
the oil; as the oil thickens the dressing, dilute with the 
acid, leaving the finished dressing thick. It is important 
to have ingredients and utensils cold. 

S40.-.POTATO MAYONNAISE 

% cup mashed potatoes % teaspoon Worcestershire 

2 tablespoons oil sauce 

3 tablespoons vinegar ^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon horseradish ^ teaspoon mustard 

^ teaspoon sugar 

Mix in order given and serve with vegetable salad or 
cold meat. 

341.— RUSSIAN DRESSING 

To Mayonnaise Dressing (see No. 339) add one-third 
cup of thick chili sauce. Cooked salad dressing may be 
used in place of mayonnaise. 

342.— SOUR CREAM DRESSING 

a 

^ cup sour cream 1 teaspoon powdered sugar 

y^ teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons chili sauce 

Beat cream until stiff; add salt, sugar, and chili sauce. 

343.— QUICK MAYONNAISE 

3 tablespoons butter % teaspoon sugar 

V2 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons oil 

% teaspoon mustard 1 tablespoon vinegar 

% teaspoon paprika 1 ^^'g 

Cream butter, add seasonings, and when well mixed 
add oil all at once ; mix well, add vinegar ; mix well, add 
the well-beaten egg yolk, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
white of egg. Do not chill. 



, SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 129 

344.— UNCOOKED SALAD DRESSING (Condensed Milk) 

2 eggs beaten 1 cup vinegar 

1 can condensed milk 1% teaspoons salt 

^ cup melted butter 1% teaspoons mustard 

Dash of cayenne 

Mix, and beat with egg beater until thickened. 

345.— CHICKEN SALAD 

2 cups cold cooked chicken Salad dressing 
2 cups celery cut fine Lettuce 

1 hard-cooked egg 

Cut remnants of chicken in small pieces and mix with 
celery and salad dressing; arrange on lettuce leaves and 
garnish with dressing and egg thinly sliced. Cabbage and 
a little celery salt may be used in place of celery. 

346.— CORONADO SALAD 

1 can tuna fish Cooked Dressing (see No. 

2 cups shredded cabbage 334) 

1 green pepper cooked 2 tablespoons tomato ketchup 

and shredded 

Flake fish; shred cabbage very fine; cut pepper in 
halves, remove seeds, cook in boiling water ten minutes, 
and shred in inch lengths; mix, arrange on lettuce, and 
dress with boiled dressing, to which the ketchup has been 
added. Garnish with parsley or pimiento. 

347.— MEAT AND POTATO SALAD 

1^ cups cooked meat cut % cup celery cut fine 
fine % teaspoon salt 

1^ cups cooked potato 2 tablespoons finely chopped 
cut fine pickle 

Salad dressing 

Mix in order given, cover vnth dressing, and garnish 
with sliced pickles and celery tops. White cabbage may 
be used in place of celery. 



ISO BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

348.— SALMON SALAD 

1 can salmon 2 finely chopped piddes 

1 cup cooked potato cubes Cooked Dressing (see No. 334) 

1 cup shredded lettuce Lettuce 

Kinse salmon with boiling water, and separate into 
flakes; mix with potato, lettuce, and pickles, arrange on 
lettuce, and cover with dressing. Garnish with sliced 
hard-cooked egg and parsley. 

849.— SHRIMP SALAD 

1 pint cooked shrimps 2 tablespoons capers 

1 cup chopped white % cup salad dressing 

cabbage 1 head lettuce 

Clean shrimps and break in pieces, reserving a few of 
the largest; mix with cabbage, capers, and dressing, and 
serve in lettuce nests. Garnish with whole shrimps. 
Canned shrimps may be used. 

850.— TUNA FISH SALAD 

1 can tuna fish % cup cooked beet 

2 cups cooked potato cubes Salad dressing 

Lettuce 

Flake tuna fish, mix with potatoes cut into fine cubes, 
and the beet cut into inch shreds; arrange on lettuce or 
any crisp salad green; and dress with Cooked Dressing 
(see No. 334) or Mayonnaise (see No. 339). 

851.— BAKED BEAN SALAD 

2 cups cold baked beans 1 cup Cooked Dressing (see 
1 cup cooked potato cubes No. 334) 

% cup chopped cooked 2 tablespoons tomato ketchup 

beet 2 tablespoons chopped pickle 

Mix beans, potato, and beets; add ketchup and pickle 
to dressing, mix with vegetables, and serve on lettuce or 
any crisp salad green. Garnish with radishes. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 181 

352.^BERMUDA ONION SALAD 

6 Bermuda onions % teaspoon salt 

2 quarts boiling water % bay leaf 

1 dozen pepper corns Small piece lemon peel 

4 cloves Lettuce 

French Dressing (see No. 338) 

Peel and quarter onions, and cook in boiling water with 
seasonings until tender; drain, cool, arrange on lettuce, 
and cover with dressing. Garnish with red radishes. 



353.^CABBAGE AND BEET SALAD 

3 cups shredded cabbage 2 tablespoons vinegar 

3 beets finely chopped % teaspoon white mustard 

y^ teaspoon salt seed 

Cooked Dressing (see No. 334) 

Mix cabbage, beets, salt, vinegar, and mustard seed; 
arrange on small white cabbage leaves, and dress with 
cooked dressing. Garnish with parsley. 



354.— CABBAGE AND CRANBERRY SALAD 

3 cups finely shredded % cup finely shredded celery 

white cabbage % cup chopped cranberries 

Mix with Cooked Dressing (see No. 334), and garnish 
with celery tops and whole cranberries. 



355.— CELERY ROOT SALAD 

2 cups Creamed Celery 1 cup chopped apple 

Root (see No. 253) 1 cup shredded white cabbage 

Mix, and serve on lettuce with Cooked Dressing (see 
No. 334) or Mayonnaise Dressing (see No. 339). 



132 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

356.— DUTCH POTATO SALAD 

6 boiled potatoes ^ teaspoon celery seed 

y2 onion finely chopped % teaspoon white mustard seed 

1 teaspoon salt i/4 cup bacon fat 

y^ teaspoon pepper ^ cup hot vinegar 

Cut potatoes into half-inch cubes; add onion, salt, pep- 
per, celery, and mustard seed ; heat bacon fat, add vinegar, 
and pour over potatoes ; let stand until cold, and serve on 
any crisp salad green. Garnish with pickled beet 

357.— LEEK SALAD 

Cut leeks in half-inch slices and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender ; drain, chill, and serve on lettuce with 
French Dressing (see No. 338) ; sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and paprika. 

358.— PEPPER AND CABBAGE SALAD 

% small white cabbage 1 red pepper 
1 green pepper Salad dressing 

Shred cabbage into fine inch shreds; remove seeds and 
veins from peppers, and cut into fine shreds. Mix with 
dressing and arrange on small inner cabbage leaves. Gar- 
nish with parsley and strips of red pepper. 

859.— POTATO SALAD 

6 potatoes ^ teaspoon mustard seed 

1 onion % teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon celery seed % teaspoon paprika 

Salad dressing 

Pare potatoes, cut in halves, and cook in boiling salted 
water with the onion until tender; cool, cut in half-inch 
cubes, add seasonings, and mix with dressing. Cover with 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS ISS 

dressing, and garnish with parsley, red beets, or cooked 
carrot. Devilled Ham Dressing (see No. 337) is excel- 
lent with potato salad. 



860.— SWEET POTATO SALAD 

3 cups of cooked sweet 2 tablespoons vinegar 
potato cubes 4 tablespoons oil 

1 cup white cabbage or 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
celery finely chopped sauce 

^ teaspoon salt 

Mix and serve on heart cabbage leaves, and garnish 
with parsley and pickles. 



361.— SAMOSET SALAD 

Arrange lettuce in salad bowl, cover with slices of 
pickled beets, and sprinkle thickly with cottage cheese. 
Cover with dressing made of three tablespoons each of 
beet vinegar and oil, one-fourth teaspoon salt, and one- 
eighth teaspoon pepper. 

362.— SPANISH SALAD 

1 head of lettuce 1 cucumber sliced 

2 cups of half-inch cubes 3 tomatoes quartered 

of bread French Dressing (see No. 

1 Spanish onion chopped 338) 

fine 2 sliced pickles 

Shred the coarser leaves of the lettuce, and arrange in 
salad bowl on heart leaves; cover with bread cubes, 
sprinkle with onion, add cucumber and tomatoes, and pour 
French dressing over all. Garnish with pickles. 



1S4 BETTER MRALS FOR LESS MONEY 

363.— SPANISH ONION AND TOMATO SALAD 

1 head lettuce 2 ripe tomatoes 

4 mild onions 1 green pepper 

French Dressing (see No. 338) 

Wash and dry lettuce, and arrange in salad bowl; peel 
onions, cut in very thin slices, and put on lettuce; peel 
and slice tomatoes, and place on onions ; cut pepper in thin 
slices, remove seeds and veins, and place on tomatoes; 
cover with French dressing, and serve very cold with 
brown bread sandwiches. 

364.— TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

1 can tomatoes Vs teaspoon soda 

^ onion Dash of cayenne 

4 cloves % bay leaf 

1 teaspoon salt % box gelatine 

1 teaspoon sugar % cup cold water 

Cook tomatoes and seasonings for twenty minutes ; soak 

gelatine in cold water for a few minutes; add to tomato, 

and stir until dissolved; press through a sieve, and fill 

individual molds, which have been garnished with a slice 

of hard-cooked egg. Serve on lettuce with any dressing 

preferred. A small amount of clear jelly may be made 

by allowing mixture to drip through a jelly bag. Put 

into very small molds, and use as a garnish for cold meat 

or salads. The pulp left in the bag will make excellent 

soup. 

365.— VEGETABLE SALAD (Cooked) 

1% cups potatoes % cup peas 

1 cup beets French Dressing (see No. 338) 

% cup white turnip ^t teaspoon onion juice 

1 bouillon cube 

Cut potatoes, beets, and turnips into half-inch cubes, 
and mix with peas; dissolve bouillon cube in one table- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 135 

spoon of boiling water, and add with onion juice to dress- 
ing. Arrange vegetables on any crisp salad green, and 
pour dressing over them. 

366.— APPLE AND MINT SALAD 

2 cups finely cut apple Few gratings lemon rind 

2 tablespoons chopped 4 tablespoons oil 

mint Few grains cayenne 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 head lettuce 

Mix the mint, lemon juice, and rind, cover, and let 
stand for half an hour; add oil and cayenne, and pour 
over apple. Serve on lettuce and garnish with sprigs 
of mint. 

367.— BANANA AND APPLE SALAD 

Peel and slice three bananas; pare, core, and slice four 
apples; arrange on lettuce, and cover with Currant Jelly 
Dressing (see No. 336). 

368.— BANANA AND PEANUT SALAD 

Peel and scrape bananas, cut crosswise into three pieces, 
roll in finely chopped peanuts, and serve on lettuce with 
French Dressing (see No. 338). 

369.— BELLEVUE SALAD 

1 cup cottage cheese ^ cup French Dressing (see 

% cup peanut butter No. 338) 

% teaspoon salt 1 large red apple 

Lettuce leaves 

Mix cheese, butter, salt, and dressing until well blended ; 
core apples, cut in one-third-inch slices, and cover each 
slice with cheese mixture forced through a rose tube; 
arrange on lettuce, and serve with French dressing. 



186 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

370.— CREAM CHEESE SALAD 

Force cream cheese through potato ricer, arrange lightly 
on lettuce leaves, and dress with a French Dressing (see 
No. 338), to which two tablespoons of chili sauce have 
been added. 

371.— FROZEN CREAM CHEESE 

Mash a cream cheese, season with paprika and salt, 
moisten with cream, and beat until smooth; pack into 
individual paper cases, put into a tightly covered tin, and 
pack in equal parts of salt and ice for three hours. Serve 
on lettuce with French Dressing (see No. 338), and gar- 
nish with bits of currant jelly or Mock Bar-le-Duc Cur- 
rants (see No. 666). 

372.— JELLIED WALDORF SALAD 

% package gelatine 2 cups apple chopped 

% cup cold water 1 cup celery shredded 

1 cup boiling water % cup nut meats chopped 

% cup sugar Lettuce 

y^ cup lemon juice 6 pimolas sliced 

Mayonnaise 

Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, add boiling 
water, sugar, and lemon juice; chill until it begins to 
stiffen ; add apples, celery, and nuts ; turn into individual 
molds, and chill. Serve on lettuce, and garnish with 
pimolas and mayonnaise. 

873.— ORANGE AND CRESS SALAD 

1 bunch water cress 4 seedless oranges 

1 head romaine French Dressing (see No. 338) 

Pick over, wash, and dry cress ; wash and dry romaine, 
and arrange in salad bowl; peel and cut oranges in thin 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 137 

slices^ and arrange over romaine; put cress around edge 
of bowl, and cover all with French dressing made with 
lemon juice instead of vinegar. 

374.^P£AR SALAD 

5 pears 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Lettuce 1 teaspoon Jamaica ginger 

4 tablespoons oil . 1 teaspoon powdered sugar 

Vz teaspoon paprika 

Pare, quarter, and core fruit; wash and dry lettuce; 
shred finely the outer leaves, and arrange on the heart 
leaves; cut quarters of pears lengthwise, place on lettuce, 
and cover with dressing made of oil, lemon juice, and 
seasonings. The pears should not be too ripe. 

375.— PINEAPPLE, CHEESE, AND DATE SALAD 

For each person allow two lettuce leaves, one slice of 
pineapple, and three dates stuffed with cream cheese. Cut 
the pineapple in cubes and place on the lettuce ; cut dates 
in halves lengthwise, remove stones, stuff with cream 
cheese, and arrange on pineapple; sprinkle cheese with 
paprika, and dress all with French Dressing (see No. 
338). 

376.— PINEAPPLE AND COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

Arrange slices of pineapple on crisp lettuce; in the 
center of each slice place a cottage cheese ball rolled in 
chopped nut meats; dress with French Dressing (see 
No. 338). 



CHAPTER XVn 
YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS, AND ROLLS 

377.— WHITE BREAD 

1 cup scalded milk 2^/^ teaspoons salt 

1 cup boiling water % yeast cake 

1 tablespoon sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons shortening 6 to 7 cups flour 

Put liquid, sugar, shortening, and salt in the mixing 
bowl ; when lukewarm add the yeast cake (which has been 
dissolved in lukewarm water) ; add flour and knead well. 
The exact amount of flour will depend upon the quality; 
but enough should be used to make a smooth, soft dough 
which after kneading is not sticky. Cover, and let rise in 
a warm room until double in bulk ; cut down, knead well, 
and shape into loaves ; cover, let rise until double in bulk, 
and bake in a hot oven about fifty minutes. To hurry the 
rising of the bread increase the quantity of yeast. Bread 
mixed with two yeast cakes may be made and baked in 
about three hours. 

378.— BRAN BREAD (Yeast) 

% cup boiling water % yeast cake 

y^ cup scalded milk % cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 cup entire wheat flour 

2 tablespoons molasses 1 cup white flour 

\y2 teaspoons salt 2 cups bran 

Mix water, milk, shortening, molasses, and salt; when 
lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved in lukewarm water, add 

188 



YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS, AND ROLLS 189 

flour sifted, and bran, and mix with liquid to a soft 
dough ; let rise until light, cut down, and knead into small 
loaves, using more bran if necessary to prevent sticking; 
let rise until nearly double, and bake in hot oven about 
fifty minutes. 



379.— ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

• 

Follow recipe for White Bread (see No^ 377), using 
four cups of entire wheat flour and two or more cups of 
white flour. Molasses may be used in place of sugar. 

380.— DATE BREAD (Not Kneaded) 

1 cup scalded milk % yeast cake 

1 cup boiling water % cup lukewarm water 
y^ cup molasses 4 cups entire wheat flour 

2 tablespoons shortening 1^ cups white flour 

2 teaspoons salt 1 cup dates cut in pieces 

Mix milk, water, molasses, shortening, and salt; when 
lukewarm, add yeast, dissolved in lukewarm water, and 
flour; mix, and beat well; let rise until double in bulk; 
add dates, beat well, turn into two greased bread pans, 
let rise until light, and bake one hour. The oven should 
be hot for the first fifteen minutes, and then the heat 
should be reduced. 



381.— FRIED BREAD 

Cut raised bread dough into pieces the size of a small 
egg, flatten with the rolling pin, cover, let rise until light, 
and fry in deep fat about three minutes. 



140 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

382.— GRAHAM AND CORN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal 2^ teaspoons salt 

1 cup boiling water ^ cup molasses 

1 cup scalded milk % yeast cake 

2 tablespoons shortening ^ cup lukewarm water 

4 cups Qraham flour 

Pour boiling water over com meal ; mix well, add milk 
and shortening; when lukewarm add salt, molasses, and 
yeast dissolved in lukewarm water; add flour, beat well, 
and let rise until double in bulk; beat again, pour into 
two greased bread pans, let rise until light, and bake about 
fifty minutes. The oven should be hot for the first fifteen 
minutes, and then the heat reduced. 

383.— IRISH BREAD 

1 quart bread dough 1 cup raisins seeded and 

% cup shortening chopped 

% cup sugar 

Knead shortening, sugar, and raisins into dough; shape 
into two round loaves, let rise, brush with milk, and bake 
in hot oven about forty minutes. 

384.— OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cup rolled oats 2 cups boiling water 

% cup corn meal % yeast cake 

1^ teaspoons salt % cup lukewarm water 

1 tablespoon shortening % cup molasses 

4 cups flour 

Mix oats, corn meal, salt, and shortening; add boiling 
water, and let stand one hour ; add yeast dissolved in luke- 
warm water, molasses, and flour. Mix well, cover, and 
let rise until double in bulk; beat well, turn into two 



YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS, AND ROLLS 141 

greased pans, let rise, and bake in a hot oven about fifty 
minutes. 

386.— RYE BREAD 

1 cup scalded milk 2 teaspoons salt 

1 cup boiling water ^/^ yeast cake 

2 tablespoons shortening ^ cup lukewarm water 

3 tablespoons molasses 3 cups rye flour 

3 to 4 cups white flour 

Mix; let rise and bake the same as White Bread (see 
No. 377). 

386.— SHREDDED WHEAT BREAD 

2 shredded wheat biscuit 1 tablespoon salt 
1 cup hot milk 1 tablespoon shortening 

1 cup hot water ^ yeast cake 

% cup molasses ^ cup lukewarm water 

6 cups entire wheat flour 

Crumble the biscuit; add milk, water, molasses, salt, 
and shortening; when lukewarm add yeast cake dissolved 
in lukewarm water, and sifted flour; knead well, cover 
and let rise until double in bulk; cut down, shape into 
loaves or biscuit, put into greased pans, let rise until light, 
and bake in a hot oven about fifty minutes for loaves, 
and twenty-five minutes for biscuit. This makes one loaf 
and one pan of biscuit. A little more or less flour may 
be needed. 

387.— BUNS 

1 cup scalded milk % yeast cake 

% cup shortening % cup lukewarm water 

%, cup sugar % cup currants 

1 teaspoon salt 3% cups flour 

Mix milk, shortening, sugar, and salt; when lukewarm, 
add yeast dissolved in lukewarm water ; add currants, and 



142 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

flour enough to knead (a little more or less than the three 
and one-half cups may be required) ; let rise until double 
in bulk; knead, and shape into small round buns; place 
in a greased baking pan two inches apart, and let rise 
until light; brush with milk, dust with powdered sugar, 
and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 



388.^CRESCENTS 

Use Parker House KoU mixture (see No. 389) or any 
bread dough into which more shortening has been kneaded ; 
roll out half an inch thick, cut into four-inch squares, and 
cut squares in halves diagonally ; brush with melted short- 
ening, and roll firmly, beginning with the diagonal edge. 
Curve into crescent shape, place on greased baking sheet, 
let rise until light, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen 
minutes. 

389.^PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

2 cups milk 2 tablespoons sugar 

% cup shortening 1 yeast cake 

1 teaspoon salt V^ cup lukewarm water 

6 to 7 cups flour 

Scald milk; add shortening, salt, and sugar; when cool 
add yeast dissolved in water; stir in two cups of flour, 
cover, and let rise until double in bulk; add enough flour 
to form a soft dough ; knead well, and let rise again ; cut 
down with a knife ; roll out on lightly floured bread board 
until about half an inch thick ; cut with small round cut- 
ter, brush with butter, and fold double ; put on baking 
sheet, cover, and let rise until light, brush with milk, and 
bake in hot oven about twelve minutes. 



YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS, AND ROLLS US 

390.~SHAMROCK ROLLS 

To one quart of bread dough add one-fourth cup of 
melted shortening and two tablespoons of sugar. Enead 
well, and shape into small balls about the size of a pecan 
nut; grease muflSn tins, put three balls in each, let rise 
until light, and bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

391.— SWEDISH COFFEE ROLLS 

1 cup scalded milk % yeast cake 

% cup shortening % cup lukewarm water 

1 teaspoon salt 3^^ cups flour 

^ cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg well beaten 2 tablespoons sugar 

Scald milk, add shortening, salt, and sugar ; when luke- 
warm add egg, yeast dissolved in water, and flour, of which 
a little more or less may be required ; knead well, cover, and 
let rise until double in bulk ; knead again ; roll on a floured 
board until about one-fourth of an inch thick, brush with 
melted shortening, and sprinkle with cinnamon mixed 
with sugar; fold dough into three layers, cut in strips 
three-quarters of an inch thick ; twist each strip, and shape 
like a figure eight, pressing the ends firmly in place ; put 
on a greased baking sheet, let rise until light, and bake 
in a hot oven twenty minutes. Spread with a thin coating 
of plain icing. 

392.— RAISED MUFFINS 

V2 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons shortening 

% cup scalded milk 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt %, yeast cake 

2 tablespoons sugar ^^ cup lukewarm water 

2^ cups flour 

Pour water and milk over salt, sugar, and shortening; 
when cool add beaten egg, yeast dissolved in water, and 



144 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

flour; beat well and let rise over night; beat again; fill 
greased muflSn pans two-thirds full, let rise, and bake in 
a hot oven thirty minutes. Or place greased muffin rings 
on a hot greased griddle, fill two-thirds full, and cook on 
top of range about twenty minutes, turning when half 
cooked. 

893.— RAISED CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup scalded milk V^ yeast cake 

4 tablespoons shortening ^ cup lukewarm water 

4 tablespoons sugar 1 cup corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt 1^2 cups flour 

Add shortening, sugar, and salt to milk; when luke- 
warm add yeast dissolved in water, corn meal, and flour ; 
beat well, let rise over night; beat well, half fill greased 
muffin rings, let rise until nearly double, and bake in 
hot oven half an hour. 

394.— RAISED DATE MUFFINS 

Follow recipe for Date Bread (see No. 380) ; half fill 
greased muffin tins, let rise until light, and bake in a hot 
oven twenty-five minutes. Figs cut in small pieces may 
be used instead of dates. 

395.— RAISED OATMEAL MUFFINS (Uncooked Oats) 

1 cup rolled oats ^ cup molasses 

1 cup scalded milk 1 egg 

2 tablespoons shortening V^ yeast cake 

1 teaspoon salt %, cup lukewarm water 

2V^ cups flour 

Pour hot milk over oats, add shortening; when luke- 
warm add salt, molasses, egg well beaten, and yeast cake 
dissolved in lukewarm water; beat well, and add flour; 



YEAST BREADS, MUFFINS, AND ROLLS 145 

beat well, and let rise over night ; beat again, and half fill 
greased muffin pans ; let rise until nearly double, and bake 
in a hot oven half an hour. 

896.^RAISED ROULETTES 

Roll out to one-half inch thickness any roll or soft 
raised bread mixture; brush with melted butter, and 
spread with cinnamon and sugar, fruit, or any of the fill- 
ings used for Baking Powder Roulettes (see No. 447). 
Roll like a jelly roll until dough is about two and one-half 
inches in diameter, cut in half-inch slices with a sharp 
knife, place on greased sheet two inches apart, let rise 
until light, and bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

BAKING POWDER BREADS, MUFFINS, AND 

BISCUIT ^ 

397.— BAKING POWDER 

1 pound 2 ounces pure % pound cooking soda 

cream of tartar ^ pound cornstarch 

Mix and sift thoroughly four times, and store in closely 
covered jars. 

398.— BARLEY BREAD 

2 cups barley meal 2 tablespoons sugar 
1 cup Graham flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white flour 6 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups milk 

Sift dry ingredients together, and mix well with milk; 
turn into a greased bread tin, let stand fifteen minutes, and 
bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes. Raisins, dates, 
figs, or nuts may be added. 

399.— BRAN BREAD 

2 cups bran 5 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups entire wheat flour % cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt % cup water 

% teaspoon soda % cup milk 

Sift flour, salt, soda, and baking powder, and add to 
bran ; add molasses and liquid, and beat well ; turn into a 

^ Recipes for breads made light chiefly by soda and an acid 
(gingerbread, etc.) and for those made light by the expansion of 
air and zaoisture (popovers, etc.) are also included in this chapter. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 147 

greased bread pan; let stand fifteen minutes, and bake in 
a moderate oven one hour. 

400.— DATE BREAD 

1 cup corn meal % cup molasses 

1 cup entire wheat flour 1 cup dates stoned and cut in 

1 cup white flour pieces 

1% teaspoons salt ^ cup nut meats chopped 

y^ teaspoon soda 1 ^^^ well beaten 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1% cups milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add other ingredients in 
order given; mix well, turn into a greased bread pan, 
cover with a cloth, let stand fifteen minutes; bake in a 
moderate oven fifty minutes. ^ 

401.— DARK NUT BREAD 

%, cup sugar 6 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup hot water 1% teaspoons salt 

V2 cup molasses ^ teaspoon soda 

% cup milk % cup nut meats finely 

2 cups entire wheat flour chopped 
1 cup bread flour 

Mix in order given, sifting dry materials together before 
adding. Turn into a greased bread pan, let stand fifteen 
minutes, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

402.— QUICK RAISIN BREAD 

2% cups entire wheat % cup sugar 

flour 1 beaten ^%'g 

y^ cup fine com meal 1% cups milk 

6 teaspoons baking 1 cup seeded raisins cut in 

powder halves 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg, milk, and raisins, 
and mix well; put into a greased bread pan, cover, and 



148 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

let stand fifteen minutes; bake in a moderate oven about 
fifty minutes. One cup of finely chopped nuts may be 
added. 

403.— BREAD CRUMB BROWN BREAD 

1% cups dried sifted 1 cup milk 

crumbs % cup corn meal 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup Graham flour 

% cup molasses % teaspoon salt 

lYz teaspoons soda 

Put crumbs in mixing dish, add boiling water, and let 
stand ten minutes; add molasses, milk, and the dry in- 
gredients sifted together. Steam the same as Steamed 
Indian Date Bread (see No. 404). 

404.— STEAMED INDIAN DATE BREAD 

IV^ cups com meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye meal % cup molasses 
% cup flour 1 cup water 
1^ teaspoons soda 1 cup milk 

1 cup dates 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses, liquid, and 
dates which have been stoned and cut in pieces. Pour 
into greased one-pound baking powder boxes, and steam 
steadily for one and three-quarters hours. Or pour into 
a large greased mold and steam for three hours. 

405.— CORN BREAD (without Eggs) 

% cup com meal % teaspoon soda 

% cup flour 1% cups buttermilk or sour 

2 tablespoons sugar milk 
% teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add buttermilk gradually, 
and beat well; pour into well-greased shallow pan, mi 
bake in hot oveii twenty minutes, 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 149 

406.— COUNTRY CORN BREAD 

% cup com meal 1 tablespoon sugar 

% cup flour % teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking 1 beaten egg 

powder % cup milk and water mixed 

2 tablespoons melted bacon fat 

Mix in order given, beat well, and bake in a well- 
greased shallow pan in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 
Half of the egg will make a very good corn bread. Left- 
over pieces may be split, lightly buttered, and browned 
in the oven. 



407.— CORN MUFFINS 

1 cup com meal V^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

4 teaspoons baking 1 beaten egg 

powder 1 cup milk and water mixed 

4 tablespoons melted shortening 

Mix in order given, beat well, and bake in greased gem 
pans in hot oven twenty minutes. 



408.— CORN AND RICE MUFFINS 

1 cup cooked rice % teaspoon salt 
% cup hot milk 1 tablespoon sugar 
% cup com meal 1 egg 

2 tablespoons bacon fat V^ cup flour 

3 teaspoons baking powder 

Pour hot milk over rice, and work with a fork to sepa- 
rate grains; add com meal, bacon fat, salt, and sugar; 
when cool add egg well beaten, flour, and baking powder ; 
beat well; bake in well-greased muffin pans in hot oven 
twenty minutes. 



150 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

409.— CUSTARD CORN CAKE 

% cup com meal 1 cup sour milk 

V2 cup flour 1 egg 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons melted shorten- 

1/2 teaspoon salt ing 

% teaspoon soda % cup sweet milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add sour milk and egg 
well beaten, and beat thoroughly; melt shortening in an 
earthen baking dish, pour in batter, pour the sweet milk 
over it, and bake in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. Cut 
in wedge-shaped pieces for serving. 

410.— MOLASSES CORN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal % teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

4 teaspoons baking % cup molasses 

powder 1 cup water 

2 tablespoons melted bacon fat 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, 
molasses, water, and bacon fat; beat well, pour into a 
well-greased shallow pan, and bake about twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. 

411.— RHODE ISLAND CORN CAKE 

1 cup white corn meal % teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

4 teaspoons baking 1 egg 

powder % cup melted shortening 

1 cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg yolk well beaten, 
shortening, and milk ; beat well ; fold in the stiffly beaten 
white of egg, and bake in a greased, shallow pan in hot 
oven about twenty minutes. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 151 

412.— BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

Follow recipe for Cambridge Muffins (see No. 414) ; 
add one cup of blueberries just before putting into the 
pans. If canned blueberries are used, drain, and dredge 
with flour before adding to batter. 

' 413.— BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cups bran 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup flour % cup molasses 

% teaspoon salt 1% cups milk 

1 tablespoon melted shortening 

Mix in order given; beat well, and bake in moderate 
oven about twenty-five minutes. These muSins are moist, 
keep well, and may be reheated successfully in a covered 
pan, either over steam or in the oven. 

414.— CAMBRIDGE MUFFINS 

y^ cup shortening % cup milk 

y^ cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 egg 4 teaspoons baking powder 

^ teaspoon salt 

Cream the shortening; add the sugar and egg well 
beaten ; beat well, add the milk, flour, baking powder, and 
salt, which have been sifted together ; beat again, and 
bake in hot greased muflSn pans twenty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 

415.— CHEESE MUFFINS 

Use recipe for Plain Muffins (see No. 419) or any 
muffin recipe, omitting the sugar; cut cheese in half-inch 
cubes, and place three or four pieces on top of each muffin 
before baking. 



152 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

416.— CRANBERRY MUFFINS 

Follow recipe for Cambridge MuflBns (see No. 414), 
and add one cup of cranberries coarsely chopped. 

417.— CRUMB MUFFINS 

1 cup dried and sifted V2 cup boiling water 

bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 tablespoon shortening ^/^ cup milk 

1 tablespoon sugar % cup flour 

y2 teaspoon salt 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix crumbs, shortening, sugar, salt, and boiling water ; 
when cool add the egg well beaten, the milk, flour, and 
baking powder ; beat well and bake in greased muffin pans 
twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

418.— DATE MUFFINS 

To recipe for Plain Muffins (see No. 419) or Cambridge 
Muffins (see No. 414) add one cup dates, stoned and cut 
in small pieces. 

419.— PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 
4 teaspoons baking 1 egg 

powder 1 cup milk 

^ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg well beaten, milk, 
and shortening; beat well, and bake in greased muffin 
pans in moderate oven twenty minutes. For fruit muffins 
add one cup of figs, dates, or cooked prunes cut in pieces. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 153 

420.— RYE MUFFINS 

1 cup rye flour 2 tablespoons molasses 

1 cup white flour 1 egg 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted shorten- 
4 teaspoons baking ing 

powder 1 cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses, egg well 
beaten, shortening, and milk; beat well, half fill greased 
muflBn tins, and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. 



421.— SOUR MILK MUFFINS 

1% cups flour 1 egg 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 cup thick sour milk 

% teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons melted shorten- 

% teaspoon salt ing 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg well beaten, sour 
milk, and shortening; beat quickly, and bake in greased 
muffin pans in moderate oven twenty minutes. 

422.— BUTTERMILK MUFFINS 

Follow recipe for Sour Milk Muffins (see No. 421), 
using buttermilk instead of sour milk. 

428.— SALLY LUNN 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 
4 teaspoons baking 2 eggs 

powder 1 cup milk 

% teaspoon salt ^ cup melted shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add eggs well beaten, 
milk, and shortening; beat thoroughly, pour into shallow 
greased pan, and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 



154 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

424.— BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons shortening 

powder % cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in shortening until 
fine and crumbly, and add milk to form a soft dough; a 
little more or less may be required, according to the brand 
of flour used. Boll out on a slightly floured board until 
three-fourths of an inch thick, cut with small cutter, place 
on greased pan an inch apart, and bake in hot oven twelve 
minutes. For soft biscuit with little crust, place close 
together in the pan, and bake five minutes longer. Left- 
over biscuit may be split, lightly buttered, and browned 
in the oven. 

425.— CORN MEAL ROLLS 

1 cup corn meal ^4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour 3 tablespoons bacon fat 

4 teaspoons baking % cup milk 
powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; rub in shortening with 
finger tips ; add milk, and mix thoroughly ; roll lightly, on 
a floured board, to a thickness of one-half inch; cut with 
biscuit cutter, brush with milk or water, and fold double. 
Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

426— BACON SANDWICH ROLLS 

Follow recipe for Com Meal Rolls (see No. 425), put- 
ting a piece of cooked bacon on half of roll before folding. 

427-—DATE ROLLS 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit (see No. 424), 
roll out one-half inch thick, and cut in rounds with three- 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 155 

inch cutter; spread with soft butter, sprinkle with cinna- 
mon and sugar, and put a date, split lengthwise and 
stoned, on half of each roll; fold over, press edges firmly 
together, brush with milk, and bake in hot oven fifteen 
minutes. Allow one-half teaspoon cinnamon to two table- 
spoons sugar. Cooked and stoned prunes or chopped figs 
may be used instead of dates. 

488.— QUICK COFFEE CAKE 

y^ cup shortening ^^ cup seedless raisins 

% cup sugar 2^^ cups flour 

1 egg 5 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk and water V^ teaspoon salt 

mixed 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Oeam the shortening and sugar; add egg well beaten, 
milk, raisins, flour, baking powder, and salt; spread in 
a greased shallow pan, brush with melted butter, and 
sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar; bake in hot oven fif- 
teen to twenty minutes. 

429.— QUICK DROP BISCUIT 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit (see No. 424), 
increasing the milk to one cupful ; drop from a tablespoon 
on a greased pan two inches apart, and bake in a hot oven 
ten minutes; or half fill greased muffin tins, and bake 
twelve minutes. 

480.— ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUIT 

Follow directions for Baking Powder Biscuit (see No. 
424), using entire wheat flour in place of white flour, and 
adding one tablespoon of molasses. 



156 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

481.— FRUIT TEA BISCUIT 

To recipe for Quick Drop Biscuit (see No. 429) add 
one chopped apple, one-half cup of seeded and chopped 
raisins, two tablespoons of washed currants, and two table- 
spoons of sugar. Put into hot greased muffin pans, and 
bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Serve for tea, or 
with a hot liquid sauce for dessert. 

432.— GRAHAM BISCUIT 

1 cup Graham flour % teaspoon salt 

% cup fine corn meal 2 tablespoons shortening 

% cup bran 1 tablespoon molasses 

4 teaspoons baking % cup milk 
powder 

Mix dry ingredients without sifting; rub in shortening 
with finger tips; add molasses and milk; mix well; roll, 
cut, and bake as directed for Baking Powder Biscuit (see 
No. 424). 

433.— JAM ROLLS 

2 cups flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

4 teaspoons baking 2 tablespoons shortening 

powder 1 egg 

1 teaspoon salt % cup milk 

Sift together flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar ; rub 
in shortening with finger tips until mealy ; add beaten egg 
and milk, and mix with a knife to a soft dough; roll out 
one-third of an inch thick, and cut with a round cutter; 
put a teaspoon of jam on each, moisten the edges with 
water, fold over, and press firmly together; make two 
cuts on top so that jam will show, brush with milk, and 
bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 157 

434.— POTATO SCONES 

2 eups flour 1 cup mashed potato 

% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons shortening 

4 tablespoons baking % cup milk 
powder 

Sift flour, salt, and baking powder; add potato and 
shortening, and work in with finger tips; add milk, and 
mix to a soft dough with a knife ; roll out three-quarters 
of an inch thick on floured board, cut with biscuit cutter, 
and cook on hot greased griddle about twenty minutes, 
turning over when half cooked. Split, butter, and serve 
hot. 

435.— SCOTCH SCONES 

1 cup fine oatmeal 1 cup flour 

% cup scalded milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Pour hot milk over oatmeal, mix well, add shortening, 
and let stand until cold ; mix and sift flour, baking powder, 
salt, and sugar; add to oatmeal, and mix well; roll out 
three-fourths of an inch thick, cut in rounds, and cook on 
a greased griddle about twenty minutes, turning when 
half cooked. 



WITHOUT BAKING POWDER OR YEAST 

436.— POPOVERS 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

y^ teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon melted butter 

Sift flour and salt; beat egg very light, and mix with 
milk; mix gradually with flour; add melted butter, and 



158 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

beat two minutes with a strong egg beater ; pour into hot 
greased popover cups or pans, and bake in a hot oven 
twenty to thirty minutes, according to size of pans. The 
mixture should be very cold, and the pans and oven very 
hot 

437.— ENTIRE WHEAT POPOVERS 

% cup entire wheat flour 1 cup milk 

y^ cup com meal 1 egg 

y4, teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon melted butter 

Follow directions for mixing and baking Popovers (see 
No. 436). 

438.— GRAHAM POPOVERS 

Follow recipe for Entire Wheat Popovers (see Nfo. 437) , 
except that Graham flour should be used in place of entire 
wheat. 

439.— BREAKFAST PUFFS 

1 cup entire wheat flour l^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup ice water 

Sift flour and salt, add ice water gradually, and beat 
three minutes with strong egg beater; bake in hot iron 
pans in very hot oven twenty minutes. 

440.— MARYLAND BEATEN BISCUIT 

2 cups flour 2 tablespoons shortening 
% teaspoon salt Cold water 

Sift flour and salt, rub in shortening with tips of fingers, 
and add enough cold water to make a stiff dough ; knead 
until Smooth, and beat with the rolling-pin fifteen min- 
utes, or until dough blisters; roll out about one-third of 



BREADS, MUFFINS, AND BISCUIT 159 

an inch thick, cut with a small round cutter, prick with 
a fork, place on a greased baking pan, and chill in the 
ice-box for half an hour; bake about twenty-five minutes, 
having the oven very hot for the first ten minutes. A 
biscuit brake may be used instead of rolling-pin. 



CHAPTER XIX 
SHORTCAKES AND ROULETTES 

441.— SHORTCAKE 

1% cups flour ' % teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking 3 tablespoons shortening 

powder % cup milk 

Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt; rub in 
shortening with finger tips ; add milk, and mix well with 
a knife. Spread in two greased layer-cake pans, patting 
with the back of' a tablespoon until pans are evenly filled. 
Bake in a hot oven twelve minutes. If individual short- 
cakes are preferred, roll, cut with a biscuit cutter, and 
bake quickly about fifteen minutes; split, and put filling 
between and on top. 



442.— APPLE AND CRANBERRY SHORTCAKE 

4 apples % cup sugar 

% cup cranberries 2 teaspoons cornstarch 

% cup water 2 tablespoons sultana raisins 

A few gratings of orange peel 

Core and slice apples, add cranberries and water; cook 
ten minutes, and press through a sieve; mix sugar and 
cornstarch, stir into fruit; add raisins and grated rind, 
and simmer ten minutes; spread between and on top of 
shortcake, and garnish with a few raisins. 

160 



SHORTCAKES AND ROULETTES l6l 

448.^BANANA SHORTCAKE 

Prepare Shortcake (see No. 441), slice two small 
bananas over layer of hot shortcake, and sprinkle with 
lemon juice and powdered sugar; put on upper layer, 
cover with two more sliced bananas, sprinkle with lemon 
juice and sugar, and garnish with bits of jelly. 

444.— DATE AND APPLE SHORTCAKE 

% pound dates % cup water 

4 tart apples % cup sugar 

% teaspoon nutmeg 

Wash and stone dates, and cut in pieces ; pare, core, and 
slice apples ; simmer with dates, water, sugar, and nutmeg 
until thick enough to spread. Spread between and on top 
of Shortcake (see No. 441). 

445.— PRUNE AND APPLE SHORTCAKE 

1% cups prunes % cup sugar 

2 apples pared and 2 teaspoons cornstarch 

chopped Grated rind of ^ lemon 

Wash prunes and soak over night in cold water to cover ; 
cook in same water until tender ; remove stones and return 
to water in which they were cooked ; add apple, and heat 
to boiling point; add sugar mixed with cornstarch, and 
grated rind ; cook about ten minutes, or until thick. Pre- 
pare recipe for Shortcake (see No. 441), and put sauce 
between and on top. 

446.— STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Prepare Shortcake (see No. 441) ; hull one box of 
berries, and save out a few of the largest; mash the re- 



162 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

mainder, and add about one-half cup of sugar; pour half 
of berries over hot shortcake, put on second layer, and 
cover with remaining berries; garnish with large whole 
berries, and serve with or without plain cream. Black- 
berry, Raspberry, Currant, or Blueberry Shortcake may 
be made in the same way, the amount of sugar necessary 
depending upon the acidity of the fruit. 

447.— ROULETTES 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit (see No. 424), 
turn on floured board, roll out one-half inch thick, brush 
with soft butter, and spread with any of the following 
mixtures; then roll firmly like a jelly roll until dough is 
about two and one-half inches in diameter; cut in one- 
half-inch slices with a sharp knife, place on a greased 
sheet two inches apart, and bake in a hot oven twelve 
minutes. 

Cheese Roulettes: Spread with four tablespoons of 
grated cheese seasoned with salt and cayenne. 

Devilled Ham Roulettes: Spread lightly with devilled 
ham, or any finely chopped and well-seasoned meat. 

Marmalade Roulettes: Spread lightly with any mar- 
malade or jam. 

Peanut Butter Roulettes: Spread with peanut butter 
and dust lightly with salt ; sprinkle with salt before baking. 

Raisin and Nut Roulettes: Spread with mixture of one- 
half cup of seeded and chopped raisins and one-fourth cup 
finely chopped nut meats. 

Fruit Roulettes: Spread with currants, chopped citron, 
figs, dates, prunes, or candied ginger. 



CHAPTEK XX 
SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 

448._BAKED BEAN AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Press cold baked beans through a sieve; spread bread 
with butter, cover with a lettuce leaf, cover lettuce with 
beans, and sprinkle beans with chopped mustard pickle. 
Cover with a second piece of buttered bread. Brown 
bread or any dark bread may be used. 

449.— CELERY AND EGG 

1 cup chopped celery 1 hard-cooked egg 

y^ cup mayonnaise 

Put celery and egg through the food chopper, using 
finest cutter; add mayonnaise, and salt if necessary; 
spread between thin slices of buttered brown bread. 

450.— CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix equal parts of grated American cheese and chopped 
nut meats; season with salt and cayenne, moisten with 
cream, and spread between thin buttered slices of bread. 

461.— CHEESE CLUB SANDWICHES 

Cut bread in half-inch slices, remove crusts, spread with 
Mustard Butter (see No. 459), cover with a lettuce leaf, 
spread with salad dressing, cover with cheese cut in thin 
eliceS; sprinkle with chopped mixed pickles, and cover 

199 



164 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

with a second slice of bread spread with mustard butter. 
Cut in quarters diagonally. 

462.— CHICKEN SANDWICHES (Open) 

1 cup finely chopped Dash of cayenne 

chicken Dash of celery salt 

^ teaspoon salt ^ cup salad dressing 

Season the chicken, add the dressing, and beat well. 
Butter circles of white bread, and spread with the chicken, 
mounding it in the center. Garnish with slices of pimolas. 

453.— GIBLET SANDWICHES 

Cook giblets until tender, put through food chopper, 
and mix with salad dressing. Spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. A lettuce leaf may be added. 

454.— HAM AND CHEESE SANDWICH (Hot) 

Spread thin buttered slices of stale bread with finely 
chopped ham ; cover with thin slices of American cheese ; 
cover with another slice of bread spread with ham, and 
saute in a little butter until brown. These sandwiches 
may be toasted if preferred. 

455.— MARSHMALLOW SANDWICHES 

Toast marshmallows and press while hot between ginger 
snaps, vanilla wafers, or butter thins. 

456.— MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES 

1 cup young America 3 tablespoons milk 

cheese cut fine 1 teaspoon anchovy paste 

^ teaspoon paprika 

Mix cheese to a paste with milk, anchovy, and paprika ; 
spread between thin buttered slices of brown bread. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 165 

457.— PEANUT SANDWICH FILLING 

Put freshly roasted peanuts through the food chopper, 
using the finest cutter, season with salt, and mix to a 
smooth paste with cream; or dilute peanut butter with a 
little milk until of consistency to spread easily. 

458.— RAISIN BREAD AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Cut raisin bread in thin slices, and spread with Cottage 
Cheese (see No. 234) mixed to a paste with a little fruit 
juice or cream. Trim neatly and cut in triangles. 

459.— MUSTARD BUTTER 

% cup butter A few drops of vinegar or 

1 teaspoon dry English lemon juice 

mustard A few grains of cayenne 

Cream the butter, add the mustard and seasonings, and 
beat well. 

460.— BREWIS 

1 cup brown bread 1 cup milk 

crumbled Vs teaspoon salt 

1 cup white bread 1 tablespoon butter 
crumbled 

Put crumbled bread in a shallow pan in a slow oven 
until browned; put in a saucepan with milk, salt, and 
butter, and cook about ten minutes, beating well. Serve 
as cereal or dessert. Left-over corn bread or muflfins may 
be used. 

461.— BROWN BREAD TOAST WITH CHEESE AND 

BACON 

Toast brovm bread, or crisp in the oven, dip quickly 
into hot salted water, and arrange on serving dish. Make 



166 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

a Sauce for Cream Toast (see No. 464), add to it one-half 
cup of cheese cut fine, pour over toast^ and put a piece of 
crisp bacon on each piece. 

462.— CELERY TOAST 

2 cups celery cut in half- y% teaspoon pepper 

inch pieces % cup flour 

3 cups hot stock or water % cup milk 
Salt 6 slices toast 

Cook celery in stock or water about half an hour, or 
until tender; add salt (if necessary), pepper, and flour 
mixed to a paste with the milk; stir until thickened, and 
simmer fifteen minutes ; pour over toast, and garnish with 
toast points and celery tips. Use the coarser unbleached 
pieces of celery for cooking. 

463.— CREAM TOAST 

Cut six slices of bread in halves, toast slowly, or put 
into a moderate oven until light brown and crisp, dip each 
piece into Sauce for Cream Toast (see No. 464), and 
put into a covered serving dish; pour over remaining 
sauce, and cover for two or three minutes before serving. 

464.— SAUCE FOR CREAM TOAST 

2 cups milk % cup cold water 

3 tablespoons flour V^ teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Scald the milk; mix the flour to a smooth paste with 
water, add to milk and stir until thickened ; cook over hot 
water fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; add salt and 
butter, and pour over toast. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 167 

465.— CHEESE TOAST 

To recipe for Cream Toast (see No. 463) add one-half 
cup of either soft cheese cut fine or graced cheese. 

466.— CINNAMON TOAST 

Cut stale bread into thin slices, remove crusts, and cut 
in halves; toast evenly, and spread first with butter, then 
with honey, and dust with cinnamon. Serve very hot. 

467.— FRENCH TOAST 

1 egg slightly beaten 1 tablespoon sugar 

y^ teaspoon salt % cup milk or coffee 

4 slices bread 

Mix egg, salt, sugar, and liquid in a shallow dish ; soak 
bread in mixture, and cook on a hot, greased griddle until 
brown, turning when half cooked. Serve plain or spread 
with jam. 

468.— GOLDENROD HAM TOAST 

Follow recipe for Cream Toast (see No. 463) ; to the 
sauce add one-half cup finely chopped ham and the finely 
chopped whites of two hard-cooked eggs. When toast is 
in the serving dish, sprinkle with the hard-cooked yolks 
rubbed through a sieve. 

469.— SUNDAY TOAST 

Cut whole wheat bread into four one-inch slices, remove 
crusts, butter, and cut bread into three strips; mix one- 
third cup of brown sugar, one teaspoon of cinnamon, two 
tablespoons of seeded and chopped raisins, and a table- 
spoon of milk; spread paste on bread, and bake in a hot 
oven until brown. Serve hot. 



168 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

470.— TOMATO CREAM TOAST WITH EGG 

% can tomato % cup cold water 

)6 teaspoon salt < % cup hot milk 

% teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 hard-cooked eggs 

4 tablespoons flour 6 slices toast 

Simmer tomato for fifteen minutes and press through 
a sieve; add salt, soda, and sugar; heat to boiling point, 
and thicken with flour mixed to a smooth paste with cold 
water; cook five minutes, and add hot milk and butter. 
Dip toast in sauce, place on platter, cover with remaining 
sauce, and garnish with egg cut into eighths lengthwise. 



471.— TO FRESHEN STALE LOAF BREAD, ROLLS, 
MUFFINS, OR DOUGHNUTS 

Dip quickly into cold water, put in a paper bag, fold top 
of bag firmly, and place in a hot oven until heated through. 

472.— BUTTERED CRUMBS 

Melt two tablespoons of butter, stir in one-half cup of 
coarse, dried bread crumbs until butter is absorbed. 

473.— CROUSTADES 

Cut stale bread in slices about an inch and a half thick, 
remove crusts, and cut in rounds, squares, triangles, or 
any shape desired ; remove the centers, using a small, sharp 
knife, and leaving a wall one-third of an inch thick ; brush 
with melted butter, and brown in oven; or fry, inverted, 
in hot, deep fat. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS 169 

474.— CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread in one-third-ineh slices, cut slices into 
cubes, and brown in the oven or fry in deep fat. Cold 
toast may be used instead of bread. 

475.— CRISP STICKS 

Cut stale bread in half-inch slices, remove crusts, spread 
lightly with butter, cut in half-inch sticks, and put in 
slow oven until light brown and crisp. 



CHAPTER XXI 
GKIDDLE CAKES, WAFFLES, AND SIRUPS 

476.— PLAIN GRIDDLE CAKES 

IV2 c^ps flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

3 teaspoons baking 1 egg well beaten 

powder 1 tablespoon melted shortening 

% teaspoon salt % cup milk 

% cup water 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add egg well beaten, 
shortening, and liquid; beat well, and cook on a hot 
griddle. The cakes should be small and should be served 
very hot with butter and sirup. 

477.— SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons sugar 

% teaspoon salt 2 cups thick sour milk 

1 teaspoon soda 1 egg well beaten 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk and egg, and 
beat well; cook the same as Plain Griddle Cakes (see 
No. 476). 

478.~CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1% cups com meal 1 tablespoon molasses 

% cup flour 1 egg well beaten 

4 teaspoons baking % cup milk 

powder % cup water 

% teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon melted shortening 

Mix in order given, beat well, and cook on a hot, greased 
griddle. If all of the batter is not needed at once, cover 

170 



GRIDDLE CAKES, WAFFLES, AND SIRUPS 171 

what is left, and keep in a cold place; add one-half tea- 
spoon of baking powder, and beat vigorously before using ; 
or half of the recipe may be used and the extra half egg 
used in some other way. 

479.— DRIED CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup dried and sifted 4 teaspoons baking powder 

bread crumbs 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

y^ teaspoon salt 1^ cups milk 

Mix and cook according to directions for Plain Griddle 
Cakes (see No. 476). Half milk and half water may 
be used. 

480.— RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cup cooked rice 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg well beaten 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 cup milk % teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour Few gratings nutmeg 

Mix rice and egg thoroughly with a fork, add milk, and 
dry ingredients mixed and sifted together; beat well, and 
cook the same as Plain Griddle Cakes (see No. 476). 

481.— RAISED BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

1 cup boiling water % cup lukewarm water 

% teaspoon salt 1 cup buckwheat flour 

1 tablespoon molasses ^ cup white flour 

% yeast cake % teaspoon soda 

Mix boiling water, salt, and molasses, and when luke- 
warm add yeast dissolved in lukewarm water ; add gradu- 
ally to flour, and beat well ; let rise over night, add soda, 
beat well, and cook the same as Plain Griddle Cakes (see 
No. 476). 



172 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

489.— WAFFLES 

1% cups flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

y^ teaspoon salt 1 Qf^f; well beaten 

3 teaspoons baking 1 cup milk 

I>owder 3 tablespoons melted shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add egg, milk, and short- 
ening, and beat well; cook in a hot, well-greased waffle 
iron. 

488..CORN MEAL WAFFLES 

Follow recipe for Oatmeal Waffles (see No. 484), using 
one cup of corn meal mush in place of oatmeal. 

484.— OATMEAL WAFFLES 

1 cup cooked oatmeal 1 cup entire wheat flour 

Yolks of 2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons melted 1 tablespoon sugar 

shortening Whites of two eggs 

Mix oatmeal and yolks of eggs (which have been beaten 
very light) ^until there are no lumps in the mixture ; add 
milk, shortening, and dry ingredients sifted together; beat 
well, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Cook 
in a hot, well-greased waffle iron. 

485.— RICE WAFFLES 

To recipe for Waffles (see No. 482) add one-half cup 
of cooked rice, mixing the rice thoroughly with the beaten 
egg before adding. 

486.— BROWN SUGAR SIRUP 

Boil one cup of brown sugar and one-half cup of water 
until the consistency of thick maple sirup. Serve hot 
or cold. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, WAFFLES, AND SIRUPS 178 

487.— CIDER SIRUP 

1% cups cider 1 cup sugar 

Heat cider, add sugar, and boil until a thick sirup is 
formed, skimming when necessary. Serve hot or cold. 

488.— LEMON SIRUP 

Boil one cup of sugar, one-half cup of water, and one 
tablespoon of lemon juice until the consistency of thick 
maple sirup ; add one teaspoon of butter, and serve hot. 

489.— ORANGE SIRUP 

% cup orange juice 1 cup sugar 

Grated rind V2 orange 

Boil orange juice and sugar until mixture has the con- 
sistency of thick maple sirup, add rind, and serve hot 
or cold. 



CHAPTER XXn 
CAKES AND COOKIES ^ 

490^APPLE SAUCE CAKE (without Butter, 

Eggs, or Milk) 

1 cup unsweetened apple 2 cups flour 

sauce ^ teaspoon salt 

% cup melted shortening 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup sugar % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon soda % teaspoon clove 

1 cup raisins seeded and chopped 

Mix in order given, sifting dry ingredients together, 
beat well, pour into a deep pan, and bake about one hour 
in a slow oven. 

491.— CANADA WAR CAKE (without Butter, 

Eggs, or Milk) 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

^ cup shortening % teaspoon mace 

1 cup boiling water %, teaspoon clove 

2 cups seeded raisins 1 teaspoon soda 
% teaspoon salt 2 cups flour 

Mix sugar, shortening, water, raisins, and salt; boil 
five minutes; cool, and add spices, soda, and flour sifted 
together ; beat well ; pour into a greased, paper-lined bread 
pan, and bake in a slow oven one hour. 

* The amount of soda in these recipes is hased upon the use of 
old-fashioned jug molasses; canned molasses varies greatly in 
acidity and, especially when freshly opened, requires little or no 
soda. If canned molasses is used, therefore, haking powder should 
wholly or partly take the place of soda. 

174 



CAKES AND COOKIES 175 

492.— DATE CAKE 

% cup melted shortening 1% cups flour 

VA cups brown sugar 3^/^ teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg unbeaten ^ teaspoon mace 

^ cup milk 1 cup dates stoned and chopped 

Mix in order given, and beat vigorously for three or 
four minutes; bake in two layer-cake pans in a moderate 
oven for twenty-five minutes; when partly cool spread 
with tart jelly, and sprinkle top layer with powdered sugar. 

493.— FUDGE CAKE 

l^ cup shortening 1/2 cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar 1% cups flour 

1 square chocolate 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg well beaten % teaspoon salt 

Cream shortening, add sugar, and beat well ; add choco- 
late melted and egg; beat again; add milk; add flour, 
baking powder, and salt sifted together; beat for two 
minutes. Pour into two greased layer-cake pans, and bake 
in a moderate oven about eighteen minutes. Fill, and 
spread top with Fudge Filling (see No. 533). 

494.^0LD-FASHIONED PORK CAKE 

% pound fat salt pork V^ pound citron shredded 

1 cup boiling water 1 nutmeg grated 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon cloves 

2 eggs beaten % teaspoon allspice 
% pound raisins 1 teaspoon soda 

% pound currants 4 cups flour 

Put pork through meat chopper, using finest cutter; 
add boiling water and let stand fifteen minutes; add 
molasses, sugar, eggs, and fruit, and mix well; add dry 
ingredients, which have been sifted together; beat well; 



176 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

pour into two deep greased and paper-lined pans; and 
bake in a slow oven two hours. This cake keeps well if 
stored in a covered stone crock. It may be reheated in 
the top of double boiler, and served hot with pudding 
sauce. 

485.--ONE-EGG CAKE 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup milk 

% cup sugar 1% cups flour 

1 egg 2V^ teaspoons baking powder 

Orated rind of 1 lemon 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and the well-beaten 
egg; beat thoroughly, add the other ingredients in the 
order given, and bake in a moderate oven about half an 
hour. 

496.— ORANGE CAKE 

% cup shortening % cup milk 

1 cup sugar 1% cups flour 

1 egg 2V^ teaspoons baking powder 

Grated rind % orange 

Cream the shortening, add sugar and egg well beaten; 
add milk, flour, baking powder, and rind ; beat well, and 
bake in two layer pans about twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Fill and cover top with Orange Icing (see No. 527). 

497.— PLAIN CAKE 

% cup shortening 1% cups flour 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs Few grains salt 

% cup milk % teaspoon lemon extract 

Beat shortening and sugar until light and creamy; add 
eggs well beaten, flour, baking powder, salt, and extract; 
beat well, pour into a greased and papered cake pan, and 
bake about half an hour in a moderate oven, or in two 



CAKES AND COOKIES 177 

layer-cake pans about twenty minutes. This is an excel- 
lent foundation cake for use with various flavorings, icings, 
and fillings. 

498.— SPICE CAKE (without Eggs) 

% cup shortening % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sour milk V^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 1 cup raisins seeded and 
1 teaspoon soda chopped 

IV^ teaspoons cinnamon 

Cream shortening and sugar, add sour milk; add dry 
ingredients sifted together; beat well; add raisins, pour 
into a greased shallow pan, and bake half an hour in a 
moderate oven. Dust with confectioners' sugar or cover 
with plain icing. 

499.— WHITE CAKE 

Whites of 2 eggs V^ cups flour 

Melted butter 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Milk % cup sugar 

^ teaspoon almond extract 

Break the whites of eggs into a measuring cup; add 
melted butter to half fill cup ; add milk to fill cup. Mix 
and sift flour, baking powder, and sugar; combine mix- 
tures, add flavoring, and beat for five minutes. Bake in 
a shallow cake pan half an hour, or in muffin tins about 
twenty minutes, in a moderate oven. 

500.— SPONGE CAKE (Hot Water> 

Yolks of 2 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

% cup hot water 1 cup flour 

% cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Orated rind 1 lemon ^ teaspoon salt 

Beat the yolks of eggs until thick and light, add the 
water and sugar, and beat three minutes with the egg 



178 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

beater ; add the lemon rind and the whites stiffly beaten ; 
sift flour, baking powder, and salt, and fold in carefully. 
Pour into a shallow greased pan. and bake in a moderate 
oven twenty-five minutes. 

fiOl.— VELVET SPONGE CAKE 

2 eggs ^ cup pastry flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
% teaspoon salt Grated rind 1 lemon 

y^ cup potato flour % cup hot milk 

Beat eggs until very light, add sugar gradually, and 
continue beating with the egg beater; mix and sift salt, 
flour, and baking powder ; add half to the eggs and sugar, 
and beat well ; add rest of flour, and beat again ; add rind 
and milk, and beat hard ; pour into a deep pan, and bake 
forty minutes in a slow oven. 

502.— CREAM PIE 

Follow rule for Jelly EoU Cake (see No. 503) ; bake ' 
in two layers, and fill with Cream Filling (see No. 531). 

503.— CAKE FOR JELLY ROLL OR CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

2 eggs 1 cup flour 

1 cup powdered sugar 1% teaspoons baking powder 

% cup hot water ^ teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs very light, add sugar gradually, and con- 
tinue beating; add water, flour, baking powder, and salt. 
Pour into a greased, paper-lined dripping pan and bake 
in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. The cake should 
be about half an inch thick when baked. Trim off the 
edges, spread with jam or jelly, and roll firmly; wrap in 



CAKES AND COOKIES 179 

a paper napkin to keep in shape. For Charlotte Russe 
cut cake into pieces to fit pap€r cases, and fill with Char- 
, lotte Eusse Mixture (see No. 562). 

904.~CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW ROLL 

To recipe for Jelly Roll (see No. 503) add two squares 
of melted chocolate. Bake as for jelly roll, trim edges, 
spread with Marshmallow Filling (see No. 634), and roll 
the same as jelly roll. 

505.— HOT WATER GINGERBREAD (without Egg) 

y^ cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup dark molasses % teaspoon salt 

% cup boiling water IVi teaspoons ginger 

2 cups bread flour % teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix shortening, molasses, and water; add dry ingre- 
dients sifted together, and beat well. Pour into greased 
muflSn pans and bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes ; 
or pour into a greased shallow pan and bake twenty-five 
minutes. 

506.— HOT WATER GINGERBREAD (with Egg) 

% cup beef drippings 2% cups flour 

% cup boiling water 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup dark molasses ^ teaspoon salt 

1 ^^ well beaten 1% teaspoons ginger 

Pour boiling water over shortening, add molasses and 
egg; mix and sift dry ingredients, add to first mixture, 
and Jbeat well. Pour into a shallow, greased cake pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven twenty-five minutes. 



180 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

607.— SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD 

2 cups flour y^ teaspoon salt 

IV^ teaspoons soda 1 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon ginger 1 cup thick sour milk 

1 egg well beaten 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses, milk, and 
egg, and beat well; pour into a greased pan, and bake in 
a moderate oven twenty-five minutes. 

508.— GINGER APPLE CAKE 

Follow any recipe for gingerbread, bake in two layers, 
and put Apple Filling (see No, 529) between layers and 
on top. 

509.— GINGER GEMS 

% cup molasses '\^/^ cups flour 

y^ cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

y^ cup shortening 1 teaspoon ginger 

% cup boiling water % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 beaten ^%^ % teaspoon salt 

Mix in order given, sifting the dry ingredients together ; 
beat well, pour into greased muffin tins, and bake in a 
moderate oven twenty minutes. 

510.— BRAN DROP COOKIES 

1 cup bran ^ teaspoon clove 

% cup flour ^4 cup molasses 

y^ teaspoon salt % cup sugar 

y^ teaspoon soda % cup melted shortening 

y^ teaspoon cinnamon % cup milk 

Mix in order given, drop from tablespoon, two inches 
apart, on greased pan, and bake in a hot oven twelve 
minutes. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 181 



511.— CHEESE DROPS 



2 tablespoons butter ^ teaspoon salt 

y^ cup grated cheese Vs teaspoon paprika 

y^ cup dried and sifted % teaspoon mustard 
crumbs Few grains cayenne 

Wliites of 2 eggs 

Cream butter and cheese together; mix crumbs with 
seasonings and add to cheese; fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Drop from a teaspoon on a greased baking 
sheet about two inches apart, and bake in a moderate oven 
about twelve minutes. Serve with soup or salad. 

612.— CHEESE WAFERS 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon shortening 
% teaspoon salt % cup grated cheese 
% teaspoon paprika % cup cold water 

Mix and sift flour, salt, and paprika ; rub in shortening 
with finger tips ; add cheese and mix to a stiff paste with 
cold water; roll out very thin, cut with a small round 
cutter, place on a greased baking sheet, and bake in a 
moderate oven five or six minutes. Serve with salad or 
soup. 

513.— CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

2 squares chocolate ^ cup milk 
% cup shortening 2 cups flour 

1 cup brown sugar 2% teaspoons baking powder 

1 egg well beaten % teaspoon salt 

^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Put chocolate with shortening in mixing bowl and place 
over hot water until melted ; add other ingredients in order 
given. Chill, roll thin, and cut with fancy cutter. Bake 
in a moderate oven about ten minutes. 



m BETTiEil MiEALS FOU LESS MONEY 

514.— GINGER WAFERS 

% cup shortening ^ teaspoon soda 

1 cup brown sugar V^ teaspoon salt 

2^ cups bread flour V/^ teaspoons ginger 

^ cup milk 

Cream shortening and sugar ; sift soda, salt, and ginger 
with flour, and add alternately with milk ; chill ; roll thin 
on baking sheet ; mark in squares, and bake in a moderate 
oven eight or ten minutes. Eemove from pan while warm. 

516.— MARSHMALLOW WAFERS 

Arrange thin crackers or wafers on a baking sheet, 
place a marshmallow on each one, and bake in a moderate 
oven for a few minutes until marshmallows melt; into 
each one press half a nut meat^ raisin, cherry, or a bit of 
candied fruit. 

516.— MOLASSES BROWNIES 

% cup shortening 1 beaten egg 

^ cup sugar % teaspoon baking powder 

^ cup molasses 1 cup flour 

2 squares melted chocolate % cup chopped nut meats 

Cream the shortening, add other ingredients in order 
given, drop from spoon on greased pan, and bake about 
twelve minutes in a moderate oven. 

517.— OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 egg 1 cup rolled oats 

% cup sugar % cup shredded coconut 

1 tablespoon melted butter % teaspoon salt 

Beat egg until light, add other ingredients in order 
given, beat well, and drop from spoon on greased pan; 
bake about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 185 

518.— PEANUT MACAROONS 

White of 1 egg 1 cup powdered sugar 

Ys teaspoon salt 1 cup finely chopped peanuts 

Add salt to the egg, and beat until stiff ; add sugar and 
nuts, and mix well; drop from a teaspoon on a greased 
baking sheet two inches apart, and bake in a slow oven 
about fifteen minutes. 

519.— RAISIN DROP COOKIES 

3 tablespoons shortening 2 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg well beaten ^ cup raisins seeded and 

2 tablespoons milk chopped 

1 cup flour 

Cream the shortening and sugar; add egg and milk, 
and beat well; add flour, baking powder, and cinnamon 
sifted together; add raisins; beat well, drop from a tea- 
spoon two inches apart on a greased baking sheet, and 
bake in a moderate oven about twelve minutes. 

520.— WALNUT WAFERS 

2 eggs y^ teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup brown sugar % teaspoon salt 

V2 cup flour % teaspoon baking powder 

% cup chopped nut meats 

Beat e^s until light ; add sugar, and beat well ; add dry 
ingredients sifted together ; beat well, add nuts, pour into 
a greased dripping pan, and bake in a moderate oven about 
ten minutes. Cut in squares while hot. Mixture may be 
baked in tiny scalloped tins if preferred. 



CHAPTER XXIII , 
ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

521.^BOILED ICING 1 

% cup boiling water % teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup sugar White of 1 egg 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil water and sugar to 240** F., or until the sirup 
forms soft ball when tried in cold water; add cream of 
tartar and vanilla, and pour slowly upon the stiffly beaten 
white of egg, beating constantly until thick enough to 
spread without running. For caramel flavor melt one- 
third of the sugar first. 

522.— CARAMEL ICING 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon butter 
% cup milk Few grains salt 

Put ingredients in saucepan, and boil to 240* F., or 
until a soft ball can be formed when tested in cold water. 
Beat until creamy, and spread while warm. Chopped nut 
meats may be added. 

523.— CHOCOLATE ICING 

2 squares chocolate Confectioners' sugar 
% cup boiling water ^^ teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate, add boiling water, and mix well; add 
confectioners' sugar until of right consistency to spread; 
add vanilla and beat well. Coffee may be used in place 
of water. 

^The sirup should be boiled in a small saucepan; otherwise the 
bulb of the thermometer will not be covered. 

184 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 185 

5a4.-<:0C0A ICING 

1 tablespoon butter 2 tablespoons cocoa 

2 tablespoons milk Confectioners' sugar 

Heat butter and milk in a saucepan^ remove< from fire, 
add cocoa, and enough confectioners' sugar to thicken. 
About one cup of sugar will be required. 

585.— COFFEE ICING 

Follow directions for Boiled Icing (see No. 521), using 
strong coffee in place of water. Or to recipe for Quick 
Icing (see No. 528) or Cream Icing (see No. 526) add 
one teaspoon of instantaneous coffee. 

526.— CREAM ICING 

1% cups confectioners' Heavy cream 

sugar ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Sift sugar and add cream until of right consistency to 
spread (about two tablespoons) ; add flavoring, and beat 
well. 

527.— ORANGE ICING 

Juice of % orange Grated rind of % orange 

Confectioners' sugar 

Mix sugar with orange juice and rind until icing is 
firm enough to spread. 

528.— QUICK ICING 

1 tablespoon butter Confectioners' sugar 

2 tablespoons boiling water ^ teaspoon flavoring 

Pour boiling water over butter ; stir in sugar enough to 
thicken ; add extract, and beat well before spreading. (A 
little more than one cup of sugar will usually be required.) 



186 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

529.— APPLE FILLING 

3 baked apples White of 1 egg 

1 cup confectioners' sugar 

Press apples through a sieve; beat white of egg until 
stiff; add half of sugar, and beat well; add apple and 
remaining sugar gradually, and beat until very light- 
Spread between layers and on top of cake. Two table- 
spoons of tart jelly may be beaten with the apple. 

530.— COFFEE CREAM FILLING 

Follow recipe for Cream Filling (see No. 531), but use 
one-half cup strong coffee in place of one-half cup of milk. 
Or add one teaspoon of instantaneous coffee to the recipe. 

531.— CREAM FILLING 

1% cups milk Vs teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar 1 egg slightly beaten 

y^ cup cornstarch 1 teaspoon flavoring 

Scald milk, mix sugar, cornstarch, salt, and egg; add 
to milk, and cook over hot water, stirring constantly until 
mixture thickens; cook fifteen minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. Cool and flavor before spreading. 

532.— DATE AND FIG FILLING 

1 cup figs % cup sugar 

1 cup dates % cup boiling water 

Juice % lemon 

Wash, dry, and chop figs; wash, dry, stone, and chop 
dates; mix fruit with sugar, water, and lemon juice, and 
cook over hot water until thick enough to spread. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 187 

638.— FUDGE FILLING 

IV^ cups brown sugar % cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter Few grains salt 

1 square chocolate y^ cup nut meats chopped 

Put sugar, butter, chocolate, milk, and salt in a sauce- 
pan; heat slowly to boiling point, and boil to 240"* F., or 
until a soft ball can be formed when tested in cold water ; 
remove from fire, add nuts, and beat until smooth and 
creamy. 

534.— MARSHMALLOW FILLING 

1 cup sugar % pound marshmallows 
% cup boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water to 240** F., or until a soft ball 
can be formed when tested in cold water; soften marsh- 
mallows over hot water, add sirup, and when partly cooled 
add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. Chopped 
nuts, dates, figs, raisins, or candied fruits may be added. 

535.— MOCHA FILLING 

2 tablespoons hot black 2 tablespoons cocoa 

coffee % teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup confectioners' sugar 

Mix coffee, butter, cocoa, and vanilla, and add sugar 
enough for mixture to spread without running. 

536.— ORANGE FILLING 

y^ cup sugar % cup orange juice 

3 tablespoons flour 1 beaten ^^'g 
Grated rind % orange 1 teaspoon butter 

Mix sugar, flour, and rind in the top of double boiler, 
add orange juice, egg, and butter, and cook over hot water 
for twelve minutes, stirring often. 



r 



188 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

537.— PRUNE FILLING 

To recipe for Boiled Icing (see No. 521) add two-thirds 
of a cup of cooked prunes which have been stoned and 
cut in small pieces, and the chopped meats from six of 
the prune stones. Spread between layers of cake. 






CHAPTER XXIV 
HOT DESSERTS 

538.— APPLE ROULETTES 

Use recipe for Baking Powder Biscuit (see No. 424) ; 
roll dough very thin, brush with melted butter, and spread 
with one cup of chopped apple, mixed with one-fourth cup 
of sugar, and one teaspoon of cinnamon; roll firmly like 
a jelly roll, cut in three-fourths-inch slices, place in but- 
tered pan,. and bake in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Serve 
with hot liquid sauce. 

539.— DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

1% cups flour 1 egg 

3 teaspoons baking % cup milk 

powder 2 tablespoons melted shortening 

% teaspoon salt 3 apples 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons sugar 

y^ teaspoon cinnamon 

Sift together flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar ; add 
egg well beaten, milk, and shortening; beat well, and 
spread in a greased pan, having mixture about an inch 
deep; core, pare, and quarter apples, cut in thick slices, 
and arrange in rows on top of cake; sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon, and bake in hot oven half an hour. Serve 
with liquid sauce. 

189 



190 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

* 

540.— STEAMED APPLE PUDDING 

6 apples 3 teaspoons baking powder 

V2 cup sugar % teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon nutmeg 2 tablespoons shortening 

1^/2 cups flour % cup milk 

Pare, core, and slice apples ; place in a greased pudding 
dish, and sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg mixed. Sift 
flour, baking powder, and salt; rub in shortening with 
finger tips, and mix with milk; spread over apples, and 
steam for one hour. Turn out of dish, and serve with 
apples on top. Serve with Soft Sauce (see No. 617). 

641.— BANANA TOAST 

Mash and sweeten bananas, heap on rounds of buttered 
toast, and heat in oven. Serve hot with cream or rich milk. 
Garnish with split chlerries, nuts, or bits of jelly. 

542.— BLACKBERRY PUDDING 

Add one cup of blackberries to recipe for Cottage Pud- 
ding (see No. 549) and serve with Blackberry Sauce (see 
No. 618). 

543.— BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

To recipe for Cottage Pudding (see No. 549) add one 
cup of blueberries. 

544.— BROWN BETTY 

2 cups soft bread crumbs V^ teaspoon clove 

4 tablespoons butter % teaspoon nutmeg 

4 apples 2 tablespoons molasses 

% cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons hot water 

% teaspoon cinnamon %, teaspoon salt 

Mix crumbs with melted butter; pare, core, and slice 
apples; mix sugar and spices; arrange crumbs and apple 



HOT DESSERTS 191 

in layers in a greased baking dish, sprinkle each layer 
with sugar ; mix molasses, water, and salt, and pour over 
all. Bake slowly for an hour and a half. 

545.— BAKED CRANBERRY PUDDING 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 cup sugar 

y^ cup butter ^/^ cup sultana raisins 

1 cup chopped cranberries % cup boiling water 

Mix crumbs with melted butter ; add cranberries, sugar, 
and raisins, and put into a greased baking dish; add 
water, and bake in a slow oven one hour. Serve with 
Soft Sauce (see No. 617). 

546.— BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

2 cups boiling water 3 cups hot milk 

1 teaspoon salt ^ cup molasses 

5 tablespoons fine corn % teaspoon ginger 
meal 

Add salt to boiling water, sift in corn meal very slowly, 
and boil ten minutes, stirring often ; add milk, molasses, 
and ginger, pour into a greased earthen dish, and bake 
very slowly for three hours. Serve with rich milk, cream, 
or Ginger Sauce (see No. 611). 

547.— CARAMEL TOAST PUDDING 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

2 slices toast % teaspoon salt 

2 cups hot milk ^4 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 egg 

Caramelize sugar; cut each slice of toast in quarters, 
dip in caramel, and arrange in baking dish; add milk 
to caramel remaining in pan, and stir until dissolved; 



1£« BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

add butter, salt, nutmeg, and egg slightly beaten; pour 
over toast, and bake in slow oven about half an hour. 
Serve with cream, rich milk, or liquid sauce. 

548.^ST£AMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

^2 cup sugar % teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon melted butter 1 cup flour 
1 beaten egg 1% teaspoons baking powder 

% cup milk % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 square melted chocolate 

Mix in order given, put in pudding mold, cover closely, 
and steam one hour. Serve with cream or Soft Sauce 
(see No. 617). 

549.— COTTAGE PUDDING 

% cup shortening % cup milk 

% cup sugar 2 cups flour • 

1 egg 4 teaspoons baking powder 

y^ teaspoon salt 

Cream the butter; add the sugar and the well-beaten 
egg, and beat well ; add the milk and then the flour, bak- 
ing powder, and salt, which have been sifted together; 
beat again, and bake in hot oven in pudding dish about 
half an hour, or in individual tins about twenty minutes. 
Serve with hot liquid sauce. 

550.— STEAMED FIG PUDDING 

% cup shortening 6 teaspoons baking powder 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 ef^^ well beaten % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup milk % teaspoon salt 

% cup molafises 1 pound flgs chopped 

2Vi cups flour % cup currants 

% cup flour 

Mix shortening and sugar, and beat until creamy ; add 
e^, milk, and molasses, add two and a half cups of flour 



HOT DESSERTS 198 

sifted with baking powder, spices, and salt; beat well; 
add figs and currants mixed with one-half cup of flour. 
Pour into a greased mold, and steam three hours, or pour 
into greased one-pound baking powder boxes, and steam 
an hour and three-quarters. Serve with Cranberry Sauce 
(see No. 606) or Currant Jelly Sauce (see No. 608). 
This pudding keeps well and can be reheated in the top of 
the double boiler. 

551.— STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING 

1 egg well beaten ^^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
% cup water ^ teaspoon clove 

2 tablespoons melted % teaspoon mace 

shortening % cup raisins seeded and 

1% cups flour chopped 

y2 teaspoon soda % cup currants 

Mix egg, molasses, water, and shortening; add dry in- 
gredients sifted together ; add fruit ; mix well, pour into 
greased one-pound baking powder boxes, and steam an hour 
and three-quarters. Serve with a tart sauce. One cup of 
dates, stoned and cut in pieces, may be used instead of 
raisins and currants. 

552.--MOCK INDIAN PUDDING 

2 slices bread buttered % cup sugar 

2 cups milk ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 cup molasses ^ teaspoon salt 

Butter two slices bread cut three-quarters of an inch 
thick, put into buttered baking dish, and pour over the 
bread the rest of the ingredients mixed together. Bake 
one and a half hours in a slow oven. 



194 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

553— INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING 

% cup pearl tapioca ^/^ cup molasses 

2 cups boiling water 1 tablespoon butter 

iy2 teaspoons salt % teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup corn meal 3 cups hot milk 

Soak tapioca in cold water for one hour, and drain; 
add salt to boiling water, sift in corn meal, and boil ten 
minutes, stirring often ; add tapioca and other ingredients, 
pour into a greased earthen dish, and bake slowly for 
two hours. 



554.— PEACH DUMPLINGS 

Cover halves of preserved peaches with Shortcake Dough 
(see No. 441) rolled thin; bake in hot oven, and serve 
with hot peach sirup and hard sauce. 

555.— BAKED RICE CUSTARD 

1 cup cooked rice Pinch of salt 

2 eggs 1% cups milk 

% cup sugar % teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix in order given and bake about twenty minutes in 
a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold with cream or rich 
milk. 

556.— BAKED RICE PUDDING 

V^ cup rice % teaspoon salt 

2 cups milk % nutmeg grated 

2 cups boiling water 1 cup raisins seeded and 
% cup sugar chopped 

Wash rice, mix with other ingredients, pour into a 
greased baking dish, and bake slowly for three hours. 
Stir occasionally during first hour of baking to prevent 



HOT DESSERTS 195 

rice and fruit from settling. Serve with rich milk or 
cream. 

667.— MULLED RICE 

% cup rice ^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups hot milk 1 egg 

1 tablespoon butter ^/^ teaspoon nutmeg 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons grape juice 

Wash rice, and cook with milk, butter, sugar, and salt 
in double boiler until tender; beat egg, add nutmeg and 
grape juice, stir into rice, and cook five minutes. Serve 
with cream or rich milk. 



CHAPTER XXV 
COLD DESSERTS 

558.— BANANA ROYAL 

4 bananas 4: slices of French Toast (see 

y^ cup currant jelly No. 467) or stale sponge 

1/4 cup powdered sugar cake 

Force bananas and jelly through potato ricer or a sieve, 
add sugar, and heap on French toast or sponge cake. Or 
line individual glasses with lady fingers and fill with 
banana mixture. 

569.— BANANA WHIP 

4 bananas 4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

4 tablespoons grape juice Whites of 2 eggs 
or jelly 

Peel and scrape bananas, force through a sieve; add 
grape juice, sugar, and stiffly beaten whites of e^s; pile 
lightly in individual glass dishes, garnish with bits of 
jelly, and serve at once. All materials should be very cold. 

560.— BANANA AND GRAPE JUICE JELLY 

% box gelatine V^ cup strained lemon juice 

% cup grape juice % cup sugar 

2^ cups boiling water 2 large bananas 

Soak gelatine in grape juice five minutes; dissolve in 
boiling water, add lemon juice and sugar. When jelly 
begins to stiffen, beat with egg beater, and add the bananas 
pressed through a sieve. 



COLD DESSERTS 197 



561.— BLACKBERRY MOLD 



1 quart blackberries ^ teaspoon salt 
% cup sugar 2 cups water 

% cup farina 

Heat berries, sugar, salt, and water, and when boiling 
add farina slowly. Cook over hot water half an hour, turn 
into a mold, and serve cold with cream. Blueberries, 
either fresh or canned, may be used in place of black- 
berries. 

568.— CHARLOTTE RUSSE FILLING 

1% cups thin cream Y^ cup hot milk 

1% teaspoons gelatine 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons cold milk ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Whip the cream with a whip churn ; skim off the froth 
as it rises, and place in a fine sieve to drain ; soak gelatine 
in cold milk, dissolve in hot milk, add sugar and flavoring. 
Stir occasionally until mixture begins to stiffen ; then fold 
in the whip from the cream. 

568.— CHOCOLATE BLANCMANGE 

2 cups hot milk ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

4 tablespoons cornstarch ^ cup sugar 
^ teaspoon salt f^/^ squares chocolate melted 

Whites 2 eggs 

Scald milk ; mix cornstarch, salt, cinnamon, and sugar ; 
add slowly to milk, and cook over hot water until 
thickened, stirring constantly ; add chocolate and cook for 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs, and turn into individual molds 
to chilL 



198 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

564.— COCONUT AND ORANGE JELLY 

V^ box gelatine V^ cup orange marmalade 

y^ cup cold water % cup sugar 

1 cup hot milk 1 can coconut 

Gold milk 

Soak gelatine in cold water for five minutes; dissolve 
in hot milk; add marmalade and sugar; drain one can 
of coconut, and add to coconut milk enough cold milk 
to make one and a half cups ; mix with jelly, add coconut, 
and pour into a mold to chill. 



665.— COFFEE CARAMEL CUSTARDS 

Vt. cup sugar 1 cup strong coffee 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

Few grains salt 

Put sugar in smooth saucepan, and stir over fire until 
a light-colored caramel is formed. (Avoid burning.) 
Heat milk and coffee, add to caramel, and keep over hot 
water until caramel is dissolved ; add eggs slightly beaten 
and salt ; strain into cups, and bake in slow oven until firm. 



see.— COFFEE JUNKET 

2 cups lukewarm milk Few grains salt 

y^ cup sugar y^ junket tablet 

1 teaspoon instantaneous 1 teaspoon cold water 
coffee 

Mix milk, sugar, coffee, and salt; stir until sugar is 
dissolved ; dissolve junket tablet in cold water, add to milk, 
and pour into glasses. If milk is overheated junket will 
not be firm. 



COLD DESSERTS 199 

5e7.^CRANBERRY WHIP 

Follow recipe for Prune Whip (see No. 574), using 
one cup of strained cranberry sauce instead of prunes. 

568.— SOFT CUSTARD 

2 cups milk Few grains salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

y^ cup sugar % teaspoon vanilla 

Scald the milk; mix sugar, salt, and cornstarch, add 
to beaten egg yolks, and stir into the hot milk ; cook over 
hot water ten minutes, stirring constantly until thickened ; 
beat with egg beater; strain, cool, and add vanilla. To 
vary the flavor, the sugar may be caramelized, or other 
extracts may be used. Serve in glasses with a meringue 
made of the whites of eggs beaten stiff and sweetened with 
two tablespoons of sugar. Garnish with dots of red jelly. 

569.— COFFEE AND RICE JELLY 

^ box gelatine 1 cup milk 

% cup cold coffee % cup sugar 

2 cups hot strong coffee 1 cup cooked rice 

Soak gelatine in cold coffee five minutes ; add hot coffee 
and stir until dissolved; add milk and sugar; chill, and, 
when beginning to stiffen, beat with egg beater, add rice, 
and turn into a mold. 

570.— FRUIT CREAM 

2 bananas 1 tablespoon granulated gela- 

1 orange tine 

% lemon ^ cup boiling water 

% cup powdered sugar 1 cup cream whipped 

Press bananas through a sieve; add juice and pulp of 
orange, juice of lemon, sugar, and gelatine which has 



200 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

been dissolved in hot water. Stir over ice water until 
mixture begins to stiffen, then fold in the cream. Put 
in mold and chill. 

571.— SPICED FRUIT JELLY 

6 apples 1 tablespoon gelatine 

V2 cup cranberries ^ cup cold water 

% cup boiling water % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar ^ teaspoon clove 

Core and slice apples, and cook with cranberries and 
boiling water fifteen minutes; press through a sieve, add 
sugar, gelatine dissolved in cold water, and spice. Stir 
until sugar is dissolved, pour into a mold, and put in a 
cool place until firm. 

572.— FRUIT WHIP (Uncooked) 

4 tart apples grated 8 dates stoned and chopped 

4 figs chopped 2 tablespoons fruit jelly 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Mix fruit; mash jelly with a fork; add to fruit, and 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Serve in glasses, 
and garnish with bits of jelly. 

578.— PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Follow recipe for Chocolate Blancmange (see No. 
563), omitting chocolate and cinnamon, and adding one- 
half can of grated pineapple. 

574.— PRUNE WHIP 

Press cooked and stoned prunes through a sieve ; to one 
cup of prune pulp add two tablespoons of sugar ; beat the 



COLD DESSERTS ^01 

whites of two eggs very stiff ; add prune mixture gradually, 
and beat well with a strong egg beater; when light turn 
into a small greased baking dish or into four individual 
dishes, and bake in a slow oven about twenty minutes, or 
until firm. Serve plain or with a custard sauce made 
from the yolks of the eggs, 

575.— PRUNE AND WHEAT MOLD 

1 cup prunes ^ teaspoon salt 

Boiling water ^ cup Cream of Wheat 

Wash prunes, soak over night ; cook in same water until 
tender, and remove the stones ; measure prunes and juice, 
and add boiling water to make one quart ; add salt ; slowly 
sift in wheat, and cook over hot water for half an hour, 
stirring often at first; turn into a mold to cool. 

676.— JELLIED PRUNES AND CRANBERRIES 

1 cup prunes 1 cup sugar 

Boiling water V^ box gelatine 

1 cup cranberries chopped % cup cold water 

Wash prunes, and soak over night in water to cover ; cook 
until soft in same water; drain, measure juice, and add 
enough boiling water to make three cups ; put cranberries 
in a colander and rinse off the seeds with running water ; 
drain, and add to water ; add sugar, and cook ten minutes ; 
add the gelatine soaked in cold water; stone the prunes, 
cut in quarters, and add to cranberries ; turn into a mold, 
and chill. 



202 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

577.— RICE MOLD 

1 cup rice Juice of 1 orange 

2 quarts boiling water Grated rind of ^^ orange 
1 tablespoon salt % cup powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons grape juice 

Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender; drain; 
mix with orange, sugar, and grape juice; press into a 
mold, and chill ; turn out of mold, and serve with cream. 

578.— SEA MOSS BLANCMANGE 

% cup sea moss ^ cup sugar 

1 quart milk ^^ teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Soak moss in lukewarm water for ten minutes; lift 
carefully from the water so as not to disturb any sand 
which may have settled; rinse moss, drain well, add to 
hot milk, and cook in double boiler for half an hour. 
Strain through a fine sieve, add sugar, salt, and vanilla, 
and turn into a mold until firm. Serve with crushed 
berries, sliced bananas, or stewed fruit. 



CHAPTER XXVI 
FEOZEN DESSEKTS 

579.— TO FREEZE ICES 

Use one measure of freezing salt to three measures of 
finely cracked ice for ice cream, sherbet, and all mixtures 
which are to be churned. Freeze slowly, remove dasher, 
pack solidly, add fresh salt and ice, and let stand for an 
hour before serving. To freeze mousse, bombe, and all 
unchumed mixtures, pack in equal parts of salt and ice, 
and let stand three hours. 

680.— FROZEN CUSTARD 

1 quart milk 2 teaspoous cornstarch 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon vanilla 
1 cup sugar Few grains salt 

Scald milk; beat eggs slightly, add sugar mixed with 
cornstarch, and stir into milk; cook over hot water for 
twelve minutes, stirring constantly at first. Cool, add 
vanilla and salt, and freeze. Part cream may be used to 
advantage, or one can of evaporated milk with enough 
fresh milk added to make one quart. 

581.— CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Follow recipe for Vanilla Ice Cream (see No. 589), 
adding two and a half squares of chocolate to the custard 
before cooking. 

208 



204 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

§82.— COCOA ICE CREAM 

1 pint milk Few grains salt 

2 inches stick cinnamon 1 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 cup sugar 1 egg beaten 

^ cup cocoa 1 pint cream 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

Scald milk with cinnamon ; mix sugar, cocoa, salt, corn- 
starch, and egg, and cook with milk until slightly thick- 
ened ; cool, remove cinnamon, add cream and vanilla, and 
freeze. 

588.— COFFEE ICE CREAM 

1 can evaporated milk 2 teaspoons instantaneous 
1 cup boiling water coffee 

% cup sugar 

Add boiling water to milk, and cool; add sugar and 
flavoring, and freeze. Serve in glasses and garnish with 
whipped cream. 

584.— MINT ICE CREAM 

1 quart thin cream % pound mint stick candy 

White of 1 egg 

Put half of cream in double boiler with candy, and 
heat until candy is dissolved. Cool, add the remainder 
of cream whipped, and the white of egg beaten stiff; 
freeze; and serve in glasses garnished with small green 
mint candies. 

586.— ORANGE VELVET CREAM 

1 cup sugar 1 cup orange juice 

1 cup water Juice of 1 lemon 

Whites of 2 eggs 1 pint cream whipped 

Boil sugar and water until it threads ; cool slightly and 
add gradually to the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, beating 



FROZEN DESSERTS 205 

steadily for three minutes; add fruit juice, and when 
cool fold in cream. Freeze, and serve in glasses garnished 
with candied orange peel and a few mint leaves. 

686.— PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

1 quart thin cream Few grains salt 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoon flavoring 

Mix and freeze. 

687.— PRUNE ICE CREAM 

1% cups hot milk ^ cup brown sugar 

2 eggs slightly beaten 1 cup cream 

2 cups cooked prunes 

Cook milk, eggs, and sugar over hot water until thick- 
ened, stirring constantly; when cool add cream, prunes 
stoned and pressed through a sieve, and freeze. Undiluted, 
unsweetened, evaporated milk may be used in place of 
cream. 

688.— STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 quart strawberries 1^2 cups sugar 

1 quart thin cream 

Mash strawberries, add sugar, let stand an hour, and 
press through a sieve; add cream, and freeze. 

689.— VANILLA ICE CREAM 

1 pint milk Few grains salt 

1 cup sugar 1 pint cream 

2 eggs 1 tablespoon vanilla 

Scald milk, add sugar, salt, and eggs slightly beaten; 
cook over hot water until mixture coats spoon; cool; add 
cream and vanilla^ and freeze. 



206 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

890.— CANTON GINGER SHERBET 

V2 cup Canton ginger Juice of 1 orange 

1 cup sugar Juice of V2 lemon 

3^2 cups boiling water White of 1 egg 

Put ginger through the food chopper, using finest cut- 
ter; add sugar and water, and boil fifteen minutes; add 
fruit juice; cool, and freeze. When nearly frozen, add 
the stiffly beaten white of egg. 

591.— CIDER FRAPPE 

1 quart sweet cider Juice of 3 oranges 

1 cup sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Mix cider, sugar, and strained fruit juice; freeze to a 
mush, and serve in frappe glasses with the roast. 

592._CRANBERRY AND RAISIN SHERBET 

3 cups cranberries 1% cups sugar 

1 cup seeded raisins White of 1 egg 

iy2 cups water 

Cook cranberries, raisins, and water ten minutes ; press 
through a sieve, add sugar, and freeze ; when nearly frozen 
add the stiffly beaten white of egg, and continue freezing 
until stiff and smooth. 

593.— FRUIT SHERBET 

1 cup sugar Juice of 1 orange 

1 cup water Juice of 1 lemon 

1 teaspoon gelatine % cup grated pineapple 

2 tablespoons cold water 1 banana peeled and mashed 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add gelatine soaked 
in cold water, and stir until dissolved; add fruit; cool, 
and freeze. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 207 

594.— GRAPE BOMBE 

Line a mold with Grape Sherbet (see No. 595), fill 
with Charlotte Eusse Filling (see No. 562) to within 
one inch of top, cover with sherbet, and pack in salt and 
ice for three hours. 

595.— GRAPE SHERBET 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons water 

1 cup water 1 cup grape juice 

1 teaspoon gelatine Juice of 1 lemon 

Boil sugar and water five minutes ; soak gelatine in cold 
water five minutes and add to sirup ; add fruit juice, cool, 
and freeze. Serve in glasses with or without whipped 
cream garnish. 

596.— JELLY SHERBET 

1 teaspoon gelatine 2 glasses jelly 

% cup cold water 1% cups boiling water 

White of 1 egg 

Put gelatine and cold water in the top of double boiler ; 
let stand five minutes; add jelly and boiling water, and 
stir until jelly is dissolved ; when cool, freeze ; when nearly 
frozen add the stiffly beaten white of egg. This is 
economical if home made jelly can be used. 

597.— PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

% cup sugar % can grated pineapple 

2 cups boiling water Juice of 1 lemon 

White of 1 egg 

Boil sugar and water for fifteen minutes, add pineapple, 
and lemon juice; when cool, freeze; when nearly frozen 
add the stiffly beaten white of egg, and finish freezing. 



208 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

598.— SOMERSET SHERBET 

1 banana 1 orange 

% can apricots, or 1 cup sugar 

1% cups stewed dried 1 teaspoon gelatine 

apricots % cup cold water 

1 lemon 1 cup boiling water 

Press banana and apricots, with their juice, through a 
sieve; add juice of lemon and orange, and sugar; soak 
gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add to 
fruit, cool, and freeze. 

599.— STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

2 cups water 1 box strawberries 
1 cup sugar White of 1 egg 

Boil sugar and water five minutes; mash berries, add 
to sirup, cool, and freeze; when nearly frozen add the 
stiffly beaten white of egg. If preferred, strain before 
freezing. 

600.— FROZEN WATERMELON 

Scoop out the inside of a watermelon with a large spoon ; 
put in the freezer without the dasher, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar and lemon juice, and pack in equal parts of 
salt and ice for three hours. 



OHAPTEE XXVn 
SAUCES FOE DESSERTS 

601.— CARAMEL SAUCE 

Melt one cup of sugar in a smooth^ clean saucepan, 
add three-fourths cup of boiling water, and simmer fifteen 
minutes. Take care that sugar does not burn. Strong 
coffee may be used instead of water, and, if desired, one- 
half cup of chopped nut meats may be added. 

e02.— CHOCOLATE SAUCE (Hot) 

% cup sugar 1 square chocolate 

% cup boiling water 2 teaspoons boiling water 

Ys teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon butter 

% teaspoon vanilla 

Cook sugar, one-third cup water, salt, and chocolate un- 
til sirup threads; remove from fire, add two teaspoons 
water, butter, and vanilla. 

603.— CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW SAUCE 

1 square chocolate i/4 cup sugar 

% tablespoon butter 1 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoon flour 8 marshmallows cut in pieces 

Few grains salt % teaspoon vanilla 

Melt chocolate; add butter, flour, salt, sugar, and mix 
well ; add water and boil two minutes ; add marshmallows 
and beat well ; add vanilla and serve hot. One tablespoon 
of shredded almonds may be added ; or the marshmallows 
may be omitted and two tablespoons each of chopped nuts 
and raisins added. 

209 



210 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

604. CINNAMON SAUCE 

Use recipe for Lemon Sauce (see No. 613) ; but omit 
the lemon flavoring, and add one teaspoon cinnamon and 
one tablespoon of molasses. 

605.— COFFEE SAUCE (Evaporated MUk) 

1 cup evaporated milk 1 teaspoon soluble coffee, or 

y^ cup sugar 2 tablespoons clear black coffee 

Place milk on ice for a few hours; beat with a rotary 
egg beater until stiff, add sugar and flavoring. 

606.— CRANBERRY SAUCE (Pudding) 

% cup butter 2 tablespoons boiling water 

1 cup powdered sugar ^ cup strained cranberry sauce 

Cream butter, add sugar and water gradually and alter- 
nately; beat well, and add cranberry sauce. The stiffly 
beaten white of one egg may be added. Serve with cottage 
or steamed puddings. 

607.— CUSTARD SAUCE 

Make the same as Soft Custard (see No. 568). 

608.— CURRANT JELLY SAUCE (Pudding) 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons currant jelly 
% cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

1 cup boiling -water Juice of % lemon 

Mix cornstarch and sugar in a saucepan, add water 
gradually, when thickened add jelly, simmer ten minutes ; 
add butter and lemon juice just before serving. 



SAUCES FOR DESSERTS 211 

609.— DATE SAUCE 

To Lemon Sauce (see No. 613) add eight dates, which 
have been washed, stoned, and cut in small pieces. Serve 
with Cottage Pudding (see No. 549). 

610.— FRUIT SAUCE 

Heat one cup of sirup of preserved or canned fruit, 
thicken with one teaspoon of cornstarch moistened with 
one tablespoon of cold water, and cook ten minutes ; add 
a few grains of salt, a teaspoon of butter, a few drops of 
red coloring, and serve hot. 

611.— GINGER SAUCE 

% cup sugar 2 tablespoons water 

^ cup molasses 2 tablespoons vinegar 

1 teaspoon butter ^ tablespoon ginger 

Mix in order given, boil for five minutes, and serve hot 
with Indian Pudding (see No. 553) or Steamed Fruit 
Pudding (see No. 551). 

612.— HARD SAUCE 

^ cup butter 1 teaspoon milk 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla, or 

^ teaspoon nutmeg 

Cream butter, add sugar and milk gradually, and beat 
until very light; add flavoring, and chill before serving. 

613.— LEMON SAUCE 

% cup sugar 1^/^ cups hot water 

2 teaspoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon butter 

Ys teaspoon salt Juice and rind of % lemon, or 

% teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix sugar, cornstarch, and salt; add hot water, stir 
constantly until boiling point is reached, and simmer ten 



212 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

minutes; add butter and flavoring. One teaspoon of 
vanilla or one-half nutmeg grated may be used instead of 
lemon. 

614.^MARSHMALLOW SAUCE 

1 cup sugar 1 cup marshmallows 

V2 cup boiling water ^ teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add marshmallows, 
beat until they are melted, and add vanilla. Beat well 
before serving. Serve hot or cold. 

615.— MOCHA SAUCE 

% cup butter or Crisco 1 teaspoon powdered soluble 

1 cup powdered sugar coffee 

2 tablespoons milk 1 tablespoon cocoa 

Cream shortening, add sugar and milk gradually, and 
beat until light; add coffee and cocoa, and blend well. 

616.— ORANGE MARMALADE SAUCE 

% cup orange marmalade % tablespoon butter 

% cup boiling water 

Mix and serve hot with Cottage Pudding (see No. 549), 
steamed puddings, or griddle cakes. 

617.— SOFT SAUCE 

To Hard Sauce (see No. 612) add two tablespoons of 
hot milk, a few drops at a time ; beat well, and do not chill. 

618.— STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons boiling water 

% cup powdered sugar 1 cup crushed strawberries 

Cream butter, add half of sugar gradually ; add remain- 
ing half of sugar alternately with the water; beat well, 
and add strawberries. Blackberries or raspberries may 
b^ used instead of strawberries* 



CHAPTER XXVm 
PASTRIES 

619.— PLAIN PASTE 

iy2 cups flour y^ cup shortening 

y^ teaspoon salt % cup ice water 

y^ teaspoon baking powder ^ cup butter 

Sift flour, salt, and baking powder; rub in shortening 
with finger tips until mixture is like fine meal ; add water 
gradually until a soft but not sticky dough is formed, mix- 
ing with a knife; when dough is mixed, the side of the 
bowl should be clean, neither sticky nor dry with flour. 
Slightly more or less water may be needed. Roll paste, 
on a lightly floured board, into an even rectangular shape ; 
divide butter into three parts; cover two-thirds of paste 
with dots of butter, using one part ; fold first the unbut- 
tered third, then the remaining third, so that there will 
be three layers of paste with butter between; roll out 
again, dot with butter as before, and fold ; repeat for third 
time. Put paste on ice until thoroughly chilled. Any 
good shortening may be used in place of butter, but the 
butter flavor will be lacking. This is enough for one pie 
with two crusts ; double the amount of paste can be made 
with the same amount of labor. It keeps well if wrapped 
in cheesecloth and put in a cool place. 

620.— RICH PASTE 

3 cups flour ly^ cups shortening 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

% teaspoon salt Ice water 

Sift flour, sugar, and salt ; add shortening, and rub in 

with finger tips or chop with a knife in each hand until 

213 



214 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

mixture is like fine meal; add lemon juice and enough 
water to form a stiff paste (about two-thirds of a cup) ; 
roll out into a thin sheet and fold in four layers; roll 
out and fold three times. Chill before using. This rule 
makes two pies. It is less expensive than puff paste, and 
yet is a very good substitute for it. 

eai.— PATTY SHELLS 

Roll paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cover inverted 
tin patty pans or individual pie dishes, trim paste evenly, 
and press down the edge firmly; prick with a fork, place 
on a baking sheet, and bake in a hot oven about twelve 
minutes. Remove pans, and fill with any cooked fruit 
mixture, berries, or creamed meats or vegetables. 

622.— PIE SHELL 

Eoll paste one-quarter inch thick, cover an inverted 
tin pie plate, trim, and press the edges firmly ; prick with 
a fork, place on a baking sheet, and bake in a hot oven 
about fifteen minutes. Fill with cooked pie mixtures and 
cover with a meringue, or garnish with bits of pastry 
which have been cut in fancy shapes and baked. 

623._TART SHELLS 

Roll Rich Paste (see 'No. 620) one-third of an inch 
thick, cut into small rounds, moisten the edges of half of 
them with cold water, cut out the centers of the other half 
with a small cutter, place upon whole rounds, and press 
firmly together ; chill, and bake in a hot oven about twenty 
minutes. Fill with jelly, jam, or fruit paste. When shells 
are to be filled with creamed meats, etc., cut with a larger 
cutter. 



PASTRIES 



215 



624.— MINCE MEAT 

4 cups cooked beef chopped 1 pound citron shredded 
2 cups chopped suet 
8 cups chopped apples 
1 cup brown sugar 



2 cups molasses 

1 glass tart jelly 

iy2 pounds seeded raisins 

1 pound washed currants 



2 tablespoons salt 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 
1 tablespoon mace 
1 teaspoon clove 
1 teaspoon allspice 
% teaspoon pepper 
1 quart boiled cider 



Mix, and cook slowly about two hours, stirring fre- 
quently. One cup of chopped cranberries may be sub- 
stituted for the jelly. Store in jars or in a stone crock. 
If mince meat grows dry by standing, moisten with a 
little coflfee. 



625.— MOCK MINCE MEAT (Uncooked) 



1% cups chopped apples 


l^ cup beef fat melted 


% cup raisins seeded and 


% teaspoon salt 


chopped 


% teaspoon cinnamon 


^ cup cranberries 


% teaspoon mace 


chopped 


% teaspoon clove 


V^ cup currants 


% cup rown sugar 


1 tablespoon citron 


% cup vinegar 


shredded 


% cup coffee 


Mix in order given and let stand a few hours before 


using. (Fills one large pie 


•) 


626.— GREEN TOMATO MINCE MEAT 


1% cups green tomatoes 


% cup water 


chopped 


% teaspoon cinnamon 


1% cups apple chopped 


% teaspoon mace 


% cup raisins seeded and 


% teaspoon clove 


chopped 


% teaspoon salt 


1 cup brown sugar 


V^ cup jelly, fruit sirup, or 


y^ cup beef fat melted 


grape juice 


2 tablespoons vinegar 





Mix and cook slowly for one hour. (Fills two pies.) 



216 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

627.— MERINGUE FOR TARTS AND PIES 

Whites of 2 eggs % cup granulated sugar 

Beat the whites of eggs very stiff j add sugar gradually, 

spread over tarts or pies, mounding in the center ; put in 

a slow oven, and bake about ten minutes for tarts and 

fifteen minutes for pies. If baked slowly, meringue will 

not settle. 

628.— ONE-EGG MERINGUE 

White of 1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

V2 cup granulated sugar ^ teaspoon extract 

Beat the egg until stiff, add gradually sugar mixed with 

baking powder, flavor, spread on tarts or pies, and bake in 

a moderate oven ten minutes. 

629.— SLICED APPLE PIE 

3% cups pared and sliced Vs teaspoon salt 

apples % teaspoon nutmeg or cinna- 

% cup sugar mon 

Line a plate with paste, fill with apples, mounding 

them in the center; mix sugar, salt, and seasoning, and 

cover apples; moisten edge of paste with water; roll out 

paste for top crust, cut one-half inch larger than plate, 

and cut a few small gashes in the center ; cover pie, turn 

edge under the lower crust, and press firmly. Brush with 

milk, and bake about forty minutes. The oven should be 

hot for the first fifteen minutes, and then the heat should 

be reduced. 

630.— BLUEBERRY PIE 

2% cups blueberries 2l^ tablespoons flour 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

Line a pie plate with paste ; fill with berries, add sugar 

and flour mixed, and dot butter over top. Cover, and 

bake the same as Apple Pie (see No. 629). 



PASTRIES 217 

681.— CHERRY PIE 

Follow recipe for Blueberry Pie (see No. 630), using 
stoned cherries in place of blueberries and adding one- 
fourth cup more sugar. 

682.— MOCK CHERRY PIE 

1^ cups cranberries 2 tablespoons sifted crumbs 

chopped and rinsed or flour 

^ cup raisins seeded and 1 cup sugar 

chopped % cup water 

Mix, and bake in two crusts, the same as Apple Pie 
(see No. 629). 

683.— CRANBERRY PIE 

2 cups cranberries 2 tablespoons sifted crumbs 

1^ cups sugar % cup hot water 

Chop cranberries, rinse, and mix with sugar, crumbs, 
and water. Roll paste one-quarter inch thick, cover a 
perforated tin plate, trim the edge evenly, and moisten 
edge with water ; fill with cranberries, cover with half -inch 
strips of paste placed half an inch apart to form a lattice 
top ; trim the edges neatly, moisten, and finish with a half- 
inch strip of paste around the edge. Bake about forty 
minutes. The oven should be hot for the first fifteen 
minutes, and then the heat should be reduced. 

634.— OPEN CRANBERRY PIE 

1% cups cranberries % cup water 

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons sifted crumbs 

Mix berries, sugar, and water, and cook for ten minutes, 
stirring frequently to break the berries; add crumbs, and 
when nearly cool pour into a baked pie shell. Garnish 
with bits of baked pastry. 



218 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

635.— CUSTARD PIE (Cake Crumbs) 

2 cups hot milk 1 egg slightly beaten 

V2 cup dry cake crumbs % teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons sugar Nutmeg 

Mix crumbs and milk, let stand for five minutes, and 

press through a sieve; add sugar, egg, and salt; line a 

deep plate with paste rolled thin; build up a firm edge 

of crust, fill with custard, and dust with nutmeg. Bake 

about forty minutes. The oven should be hot for the first 

ten minutes, and then the heat should be reduced. 

636.— GOOSEBERRY PIE 

To recipe for Gooseberry Patties (see No. 648) add 
two tablespoons of dried and sifted crumbs. Prepare and 
bake the same as Cranberry Pie (see No. 633). 

637.— LEMON PIE 

1 slice bread one inch 1 cup sugar 

thick Yolks 2 eggs 

1 cup boiling water Vs teaspoon salt 

Rind and juice 1 lemon 

Kemove crusts from bread; cover bread with boiling 
water, let stand a few minutes, and press through a sieve ; 
add sugar, egg yolks slightly beaten, salt, lemon rind, and 
lemon juice. Prepare paste, fill, and bake the same as 
Custard Pie (see No. 635). Make a Meringue (see No. 
627) of the whites of eggs. ^ 

638.— MARLBOROUGH PIE 

6 apples Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 

% cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 macaroons rolled ^/4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs slightly beaten 

Pare and slice apples, add one-quarter cup of water; 
cook until soft, and rub through a sieve ; add other ingre- 



PASTRIES 219 

dients in order given. Line a deep plate or patty tins 
with rich paste, fill, and bake about forty minutes. Cake 
crumbs may be substituted for macaroons. 

639.— MINCE PIE 

Line a perforated tin plate with paste, rolled one-fourth 
inch thick ; fill with mince meat, moisten edges with water, 
and cover with an upper crust with a few small gashes 
cut in it ; turn the edge under lower crust about half an 
inch, press firmly, and trim edges of paste with a knife, 
slanting toward the center ; brush with milk, and bake in 
a hot oven about half an hour. 

640.— ORANGE PIE 

1% cups hot milk Grated rind of % orange 

% cup cake crumbs Juice of 1 orange 

% cup sugar 1 egg slightly beaten 

Ys teaspoon salt 

Mix milk and crumbs, let stand five minutes, and press 
through a fine sieve; add other ingredients. Prepare 
paste, fill, and bake the same as Custard Pie (see No. 635). 

641.— PINEAPPLE PIE 

1 can grated pineapple Few grains salt 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

2% tablespoons flour V^ tablespoon butter 

Mix sugar, flour, and salt, add beaten egg, and mix 
with pineapple; pour into a deep pie plate lined with 
paste, add butter in small pieces, cover with strips of paste, 
and bake in a hot oven about forty minutes, reducing the 
heat during second half of baking. 



220 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

642.— PRUNE PIE 

2 cups cooked prunes 1 tablespoon flour 

% cup sugar Grated rind of % orange 

Stone prunes, cut in quarters, and put into a paste-lined 
plate; cover with sugar, flour, and rind mixed. Cover 
with upper crust, brush with milk, and bake in a hot oven 
half an hour, reducing the heat during second half of 
baking. 

648.— PUMPKIN PIE 

1% cups baked pumpkin % teaspoon ginger 

1 egg well beaten 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
% cup brown sugar % teaspoon cornstarch 
% teaspoon salt 1% cups milk 

Cut pumpkin in pieces and bake in a hot oven; mash 
and strain, and to one and a half cups add the other ingre- 
dients in order given. Prepare paste and bake the same 
as Custard Pie (see No. 635). 

644.— RAISIN PIE 

% cup raisins seeded and 1 cup brown sugar 

chopped ^ cup vinegar 

1% cups hot water 2 tablespoons butter 

% cup sifted crumbs 

Mix, and cook for ten minutes ; cool ; and bake the same 
as Cranberry Pie (see No. 633). 

645.— RHUBARB PIE 

2 cups rhubarb % cup sifted crumbs 
2 tablespoons sultana 1 cup sugar 

raisins Grating of nutmeg 

Few grains salt 

Cut rhubarb in half-inch pieces, place in a strainer, 
and scald with boiling water ; drain, put into a paste-lined 



PASTRIES 221 

plate, cover with raisins, crumbs, sugar, and nutmeg and 
salt mixed ; cover with an upper crust, and bake the same 
as Apple Pie (see No. 629). 

646.— SQUASH PIE 

1^/2 cups cooked squash ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon nutmeg 

% teaspoon salt 1 egg beaten 

% cup sifted crumbs 1% cups milk 

Mix in order given. Prepare paste, fill, and bake the 

same as Custard Pie (see No. 635). 

647.— BANBURY TARTS 

1 cup raisins Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

% cup sugar ^ cup sifted crumbs 

Seed and chop raisins, and mix with sugar, lemon, and 
crumbs. Roll paste one-eighth inch thick, and cut in three- 
inch rounds; put half a tablespoon of raisin mixture on 
half of each round, moisten edges with water, fold double, 
and press edges firmly together. Prick with a fork, and 
bake in a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

648.— GOOSEBERRY PATTIES 

Remove tops and stems from one pint of gooseberries; 
wash, add one-half cup water, and cook about fifteen min- 
utes, or until soft and well broken ; add one cup of sugar, 
and cool ; line patty pans with paste, fill with gooseberries, 
cover with narrow strips of paste to form a lattice. Bake 
in a hot oven twenty-five minutes. 

649.— PRUNE AND APPLE TART FILLING 

Use recipe for Prune and Apple Shortcake (see No. 
445), fill cooked paste shells, and garnish with bits of 
cooked paste. 



222 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

650.— PRUNE PATTIES 

Line patty pans with paste ; prepare filling as for Prune 
Pie (see No. 642) ; mix, and fill pans; cover with a lattice- 
work of narrow strips of paste, and finish with a narrow 
strip of paste around the outer edge. Bake in a hot oven 
about twenty-five minutes. 

651.— INDIVIDUAL RASPBERRY PIE 

Roll paste one-eighth inch thick, cut into circles two 
and a half inches in diameter. Put a tablespoon of rasp- 
berry jam on half of them, and moisten the edges with 
water. With a small round cutter make three holes in 
each remaining circle, place on top of jam, press edges 
firmly together, and bake about fifteen minutes in a hot 
oven. Bake the small cut-out pieces of paste, and serve 
with soup. 

652.— RHUBARB MERINGUE PATTIES 

2 cups rhubarb 1 egg yolk beaten 

^ cup water 3 tablespoons sifted crumbs 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

Cut rhubarb in half-inch pieces and cook with water 
ten minutes ; add sugar, egg yolk, crumbs, and butter, and 
cook five minutes; when cool, fill Patty Shells (see No. 
621), cover with One-egg Meringue (see No. 628), and 
bake ten minutes in a moderate oven. 

653.— SQUASH PATTIES (without Eggs) 

2 cups cooked and sifted % teaspoon salt 

squash 1 tablespoon dried and sifted 

% cup sugar crumbs 

% teaspoon lemon extract 

Mix in order given. Line patty pans with paste, fill 

with squash, and bake in a hot oven about twenty-five 

minutes. 



PASTRIES 223 

654.— CHEESE STRAWS 

V2 cup flour Ys teaspoon mustard 

1 tablespoon shortening V^ teaspoon paprika 

% cup grated cheese ^ teaspoon baking powder 

Vs teaspoon salt Ice water 

Eub shortening into flour with finger tips ; add cheese, 
seasonings, and baking powder, and mix to a stiff dough 
with ice water. Roll out, fold in four layers, roll out 
again and fold as before ; put on ice to chill ; roll out one- 
third inch thick, and cut into four-inch straws. Bake in 
a hot Oven about twelve minutes. 

655.— CHEESE STRAWS (Left-over Paste) 

Roll trimmings of pastry into a thin sheet, sprinkle 
with grated cheese and paprika; fold in four layers; 
repeat ; chill, cut into straws, and bake in a hot oven about 
twelve minutes. 

656.— CHEESE WAFERS 

Prepare paste as for Cheese Straws (see No. 654) ; 
roll out very thin, cut with a two-inch cutter, and bake in 
a hot oven about six minutes. 

657.~CINNAMON HEARTS 

Roll Rich Paste (see Ifo. 620) very thin in an even 
rectangular shape; sprinkle with powdered sugar mixed 
with a little cinnamon. The paste should be about twelve 
inches long. Fold each end toward the center two inches ; 
fold each end again toward the center; fold double, and 
chill. Cut in one-third-inch slices, place flat side down 
on a baking sheet two inches apart, and bake in a hot 
oven about eight minutes. 



CHAPTER XXIX 
FEUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED ^ 

658.— TO COOK DRIED FRUIT 

Wash thoroughly in two or three cold waters; put in 
granite kettle, cover with water, and soak twenty-four 
hours; cook very slowly two or three hours until tender; 
add sugar, and simmer half an hour. 

659.— BAKED APPLES WITH DATES 

Wipe and core apples, and place in baking dish (not 
tin) ; in each cavity put a stoned date, a tablespoon of 
sugar, and two tablespoons of boiling water; bake in a 
moderate oven about half an hour, basting often. Apple 
jelly may be used in place of dates, or sugar may be mixed 
with a little cinnamon or nutmeg. 

660.— GRAPE AND APPLE JELLY 

y^ peck grapes 3 tart lapples Sugar 

Pick over, stew, and mash grapes, put in kettle with 
apples, which have been coarsely chopped, but not pared 
or cored ; heat to boiling point, mash, and boil thirty min- 
utes; strain through a jelly bag; measure juice, return 
to kettle, and boil five minutes; add an equal amount of 
heated sugar, and boil three minutes. Skim well and pour 
into glasses. 

^For standard recipes for jeUies and preserres, see Farmers' 
Bulletin No. 203. 

224 



FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED ^25 

661.— SPICED APPLE JELLY 

Wash apples, cut in quarters, cover with equal parts of 
water and vinegar, and cook half an hour; drain; and to 
each quart of juice add one-third cup of mixed spices 
(tied in a hag), and hoil twenty minutes. Remove spices. 
Add heated sugar, allowing one quart for each quart of 
juice. Boil ten minutes, and pour into glasses. When 
cold and firm cover with melted parafiin. 

662.— GRAPE JUICE AND APPLE SAUCE 

1 cup grape juice 4 apples 

V2 cup sugar 4 slices sponge cake or toast 

Boil grape juice and sugar for five minutes ; pare, core, 
and slice apples, and cook in grape juice until tender ; cool, 
and serve on toast or cake. Two cups of grapes cooked 
with one-half cup of water and pressed through a sieve 
may be used in place of juice. 

663.— DARK RED APPLE SAUCE 

8 tart apples % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 cup sugar ^ cup hot water 

Pare and core apples, and cut into eighths; put into 
an earthen dish ; add sugar, nutmeg, and hot water ; cover 
closely, and bake in a slow oven three hours." 

664.— BAKED BANANAS 

Peel, scrape, and slice six bananas; put into a greased 
baking dish in layers, and sprinkle each layer with brown 
sugar ; dot a tablespoon of butter over the top, and sprinkle 
with the juice of half a lemon. Bake in a moderate oven 
half an hour^ 



226 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

665.— BANANAS WITH FIGS AND NUTS 

4 bananas 2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

4 figs y^ cup chopped nut meats 

Peel, scrape, and slice bananas; wash, dry, and chop 
figs; spread over bananas; sprinkle with sugar and nut 
meats, and serve with cream. Grape nuts may be used 
in place of nut meats. 

666^MOCK BAR-LE-DUC CURRANTS 

V^ cup large, hard cranberries 

1 cup sugar 

y^ cup boiling water 

Cut cranberries in quarters, place in colander, and wash 

under running water to remove the seeds ; heat sugar and 

water slowly to the boiling point, and boil seven minutes ; 

add cranberries, and boil seven minutes. Seal in small 

glasses. 

667.— RED CURRANT CONSERVE 

2 pounds red currants 1 cup raisins 

2 oranges IV^ pounds sugar 

Wash currants ; grate rind of oranges and remove pulp ; 
seed raisins and cut in halves; put in preserving kettle 
with sugar, heat gradually to boiling point, and simmer 
until as thick as marmalade. 

668.— CRANBERRY CONSERVE 

1 quart cranberries 1 cup raisins seeded and 
1 cup water chopped 

Grated rind 1 orange 2iA cups sugar 

Pulp and juice of 2 % cup nut meats chopped 
oranges 

Wash cranberries and chop rather coarsely; put in 
colander and rinse with running water to remove seeds; 



FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 227 

add water, oranges, and raisins ; cook fifteen minutes ; add 
sugar and boil two minutes ; add nut meats and pour into 
glasses. 

669.— SPICED CRANBERRIES 

1 quart cranberries ^/i cup water 

2 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
% cup vinegar ^ teaspoon clove 

y^ teaspoon allspice 

Mix in order given, lieat slowly to the boiling point, 
and simmer half an hour. Serve with cold meats. 

670.— PRESERVED CRANBERRIES 

% cup water 1 cup sugar 1 cup cranberries 

Heat water and sugar to the boiling point, and cook 
five minutes ; add berries, and simmer for fifteen minutes, 
skimming when necessary. The berries should be un- 
broken. (Useful for garnishing.) 

671.— CRANBERRY SAUCE 

1 pint cranberries % cup water 1 cup sugar 

Pick over and wash berries, add the water, and cook 
imtil very soft. Mash with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, 
and cook until sugar is dissolved. For thick cranberry 
jelly, press through a sieve and pour into glasses. 

672.— FIG PASTE (Laxative) 

1 pound prunes % pound figs 

1 ounce senna leaves Cold water 

Soak prunes over night in cold water to cover, add the 
senna leaves tied in cheesecloth, and cook slowly until 



228 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

prunes are tender. Stone the prunes, and chop fine ; add 
figs chopped fine, put in top of double boiler, remove senna, 
add prune juice, and cook until thick. 

678.— CANDIED GRAPE FRUIT PEEL 

Cut grape fruit peel into thin strips, and soak twenty- 
four hours in salted water, allowing one teaspoon of salt 
to each quart of water ; drain, cover with cold water, and 
boil about one hour, or until tender, changing the water 
on6e ; drain, weigh peel, and add an equal weight of sugar ; 
heat slowly, and cook until sugar is almost absorbed; 
spread on a platter to dry for five or six hours; roll in 
powdered sugar. If put in airtight jars it will keep in- 
definitely. Orange or lemon peel may be used in the 
same way. 

674.— BAKED PEARS 

8 hard pears % cup boiling water 

% cup sugar 4 cloves 

Wipe pears, remove stems, and put in an earthen dish ; 
add sugar, water, and cloves; cover, and bake in a slow 
oven for four hours, basting occasionally. Serve cold. 

675.— PEAR AND GINGER MARMALADE 

8 pounds hard pears Juice of 4 lemons 

Grated rind 4 lemons l^ pound preserved ginger 

6 pounds sugar 

Quarter and core pears, and put through food chopper ; 
add lemon rind, juice, and ginger (chopped) ; mix fruit 
with sugar, heat gradually to boiling point, and cook 
slowly about two hours, or until thick. 



FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 229 

e76.--SPICED PRUNES 

2 cups cooked prunes 2 tablespoons sugar 

^ cup chopped cran- Juice of 1 orange 

berries Few gratings orange rind 

^ cup prune juice ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

y^ teaspoon paprika 

Stone prunes, cut in small pieces, add other ingredients, 
and simmer twenty minutes. Serve with cold meats. 

677.— QUINCE HONEY 

6 quinces 3% pounds sugar 1 quart water 

Pare, quarter, and core quinces; to the cores and 
parings add one pint of water, simmer half an hour, and 
press through a sieve. Chop quinces, using the finest 
cutter, add a pint of water, and sinmier while cores are 
cooking ; add pulp and juice from cores and boil ten min- 
utes; add sugar and boil about five minutes, or until it 
jelKes. 

678.— BAKED RHUBARB AND BANANAS 

2 cups rhubarb % cup sugar 

3 bananas 1 tablespoon butter 

Wash rhubarb and cut, unpeeled, into one-inch pieces; 
peel and slice bananas, and arrange in a baking dish in 
alternate layers with the rhubarb; add sugar and butter, 
cover, and bake in a slow oven two hours. Serve hot or 
cold. 

679.— RHUBARB AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

4 cups rhubarb 1 tablespoon orange rind grated 
4 oranges Juice V2 lemon 

6 cups sugar 

Cut rhubarb in half -inch pieces ; add pulp and juice of 
oranges, rind, lemon juice, and sugar. Cook slowly until 
juice will " jell " when tried on a cold plate. 



1 



230 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

6B0.— RHUBARB AND FIG MARMALADE 

3 pounds rhubarb 1 lemon 

1 pound figs 1 teaspoon ginger 

3 pounds sugar % teaspoon clove 

y^ teaspoon salt 

Cut rhubarb unpeeled into inch pieces; wash figs and 
put through food chopper; put in preserving kettle with 
half of sugar and let stand over night; in the morning 
boil until clear, then add remaining sugar, juice and 
grated rind of lemon, and seasonings. Cook slowly until 
thickened. 

681..THREE-IN.ONE MARMALADE 

Cut in halves one grape fruit, one orange, and one 
lemon; remove pulp with a teaspoon, saving juice and 
discarding seeds; remove the membrane from peels, and 
put peel through the food chopper, using medium cutter; 
mix peel, pulp, and juice; measure, and to each cup add 
three cups of cold water ; let stand over night ; heat slowly 
to the boiling point, and cook one hour, or until peel is 
tender; measure, add an equal amount of sugar; boil 
about forty minutes, or until a little will " jell " when tried 
on a cold plate. 

682.— RED TOMATO JAM 

3 pounds ripe tomatoes 2 lemons 
3 pounds sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

% teaspoon salt 

Scald and peel tomatoes; cut in halves crosswise and 
discard seeds ; put in preserving kettle with sugar, lemon 
juice, and ginger; cook slowly about two hours, stirring 
often with a wooden spoon. Skim when necessary. This 
may be kept in a stone crock or sealed in glasses. 



FRUITS, COOKED AND UNCOOKED 231 

683.— SWEET PICKLED WATERMELON RIND 

Rind of Vz watermelon 1^/2 tablespoons cinnamon 

3 pounds brown sugar 1 tablespoon cloves 

1 quart vinegar 1 tablespoon allspice 

Pare melon rind, cut in inch squares, wash, and drain ; 
put sugar and vinegar in a preserving kettle, add spices 
tied in a bag, and boil one hour; add melon rind, and 
cook about one hour, or until tender ; put melon rind into 
a stone crock, boil sirup hard for fifteen minutes, and 
pour over melon. 



CHAPTER XXX 
CAKdiES 

684.— PLAIN FONDANT 

4 cups granulated sugar 1 cup boiling water 

Ys teaspoon cream of tartar 

Put sugar in a smooth, clean saucepan, add boiling 
water, and stir until dissolved; heat slowly to boiling 
point, add cream of tartar, and boil without stirring to 
240"* F., or until sirup will form a soft ball when tested 
in cold water. As sirup granulates around the sides of 
saucepan, wash down with a clean brush which has been 
dipped quickly into cold water; pour out upon a slightly 
oiled slab or large platter; as the edges begin to harden, 
turn them toward the center, and when the mixture is 
partly cooled work with a wooden spatula or butter paddle 
until creamy; when it begins to lump, knead with the 
hands until smooth. Let stand a few hours before using, 
or keep in a covered jar until needed. 

685.— COFFEE FONDANT 

Follow recipe for Plain Fondant (see ITo. 684), using 
strong, clear coffee in place of water. Or, if only a small 
quantity is needed, melt plain fondant over hot water and 
add one teaspoon of instantaneous coffee to each cup. This 
may be used melted for mints, or for dipping, or, when 
cooled, for centers. 

232 



CANDIES 2SS 

686.— BONBON CENTERS 

Cut candied fruits or nuts into small pieces, and work 
with a bit of fondant into small balls ; let stand a few 
hours before dipping. Keep centers small so that bonbons 
will not be too large when finished. 

687.-.FONDANT BONBONS 

Melt fondant over hot water; flavor and color as de- 
sired ; dip bonbon centers one at a time, and remove with 
a fork or confectioners' dipper; place on an oiled slab or 
platter until cold. 

688.— CHOCOLATE BONBONS 

Melt bitter chocolate in a cup over hot water, and dip 
centers the same as for Fondant Bonbons (see No. 687). 
Dot chocolate (sweetened) may be used if preferred. Con- 
fectioners' chocolate is best for dipping, but cooking choco- 
late is satisfactory if half a teaspoon of butter is melted 
with each four squares. 

689.— FONDANT MINTS 

Put Plain Fondant (see No. 684) in cups, melt over 
hot water, and flavor with a few drops of oil of spearmint, 
wintergreen, orange, lime, or any desired flavor; color 
lightly if desired, and drop from a teaspoon upon an oiled 
slab or platter. 

680.— QUICK FONDANT 

Break the white of an egg into a bowl, add a tablespoon 
of water and about two cups of confectioners' sugar, or 
enough to knead. Flavor with oil, extracts, or grated 



234 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

orange or lemon rind, and color as desired. Use for mints 
(rolled and cut), stuffing dates, prunes, cherries or nuts, 
or for bonbon centers. 

691.— QUICK MINTS 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon cream of tartar 
V2 cup boiling water 3 drops oil of spearmint 

Put sugar into a smooth, clean saucepan, add boiling 
water, and stir until dissolved ; add cream of tartar, and 
boil to 234** F., or about five minutes; cool slightly, add 
fiavoring, beat until creamy, and drop from a teaspoon 
on an oiled slab or platter. If mixture thickens before all 
is used, add a few drops of boiling water. Oil or essence 
of wintergreen, lime, orange, etc., may be used instead of 
spearmint, and mixture may be colored lightly to corre- 
spond with flavoring. 

692.— AFTER-DINNER MINTS 

2 cups sugar % cup boiling water 
% cup molasses 4 drops oil of spearmint 

Put sugar and molasses into a smooth, clean saucepan, 
add boiling water, heat gradually to the boiling point, and 
boil to 258° F., or until candy becomes brittle when tested 
in cold water; add flavoring, pour on an oiled slab or 
platter, and when cool enough to handle pull until nearly 
white ; pull into long strips about half an inch in diameter, 
and cut in small pieces with scissors; roll in powdered 
sugar, and keep in a covered jar for several days before 
using. 

693.— APRICOT PASTE 

Follow recipe for Mint Paste (see No. 694), omitting 
spearmint and coloring, and adding one cup of stewed 



CANDIES 2S5 

and strained dried apricots (without juice) ; roll in con- 
fectioners' sugar, or dip in melted fondant or chocolate. 

694.— MINT PASTE 

1 box granulated gelatine ^ cup lemon juice 

% cup cold water Grated rind 1 orange 

1 cup boiling water 6 drops oil of spearmint 

2 cups sugar Green coloring 

Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes; dissolve in 
boiling water; add sugar, and stir until dissolved; add 
lemon juice, and boil twenty minutes ; add rind, flavoring, 
and coloring; pour into a small pan and let stand for 
several hours; cut into cubes and roll in confectioners' 
sugar. Oil of wintergreen, cloves, or cinnamon may be 
used in place of spearmint, and other coloring may be 
used. 

696.— TURKISH DELIGHT 

1 box granulated gelatine 2 cups sugar 

% cup strained orange 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

juice Grated rind 1 orange 

1 cup boiling water % cup nut meats cut fine 

^ cup candied fruit cut fine 

Soak gelatine in orange juice five minutes; dissolve 
in boiling water, add sugar and lemon juice, and stir until 
sugar is dissolved ; boil twenty minutes ; add rind, and, 
when nearly cold, add nuts and fruit and pour into a 
small pan; let stand several hours, cut in cubes, and roll 
in confectioners' sugar. Paste may be colored pink by 
adding red gelatine to the orange juice. 



2S6 BETTER MEALS FOR LESS MONEY 

696.— FRUIT WAFERS 

% pound prunes V2 pound dates 

^ pound £gs Juice and grated rind % lemon 

Confectioners' sugar 

Soak prunes and figs in cold water over night, drain 

and wipe dry; cut prunes from stones, stone dates, and 

put all fruit through food chopper, using finest cutter; 

add lemon rind, juice, and «ugar enough to knead to a 

firm paste; roll on a sugared board to one-fourth-inch 

thickness, and cut in small rounds, squares, or diamonds. 

Or form paste into small balls, and roll in coconut or 

chopped nut meats. One-half cup of finely chopped nut 

meats may be added to the paste. This is an excellent 

filling for stuffed dates. 

697.— SPICED RAISINS 

2 cups large raisins seeded 2 tablespoons water 
% tablespoon butter % teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons vinegar ^ teaspoon mace 

y^ teaspoon clove 

Cook very slowly until raisins are plump and liquid 

has evaporated. Cool, and roll in granulated sugar. 

698.— STUFFED DATES 

Wash one pound large dates, dry, and remove stones; 
stuff with plain fondant, or fondant mixed with candied 
fruits or nuts ; or stuff with a seeded raisin, or a piece of 
date, fig, or pineapple. EoU in confectioners' sugar. 

699.— STUFFED PRUNES 

1 pound large prunes ^ pound dried apricots 

y^ cup confectioners' sugar 

Wash fruit, soak over night, drain and dry; remove 

stones from prunes with a knife; put apricots through 



CANDIES 237 

food chopper, mix with sugar, and fill prunes; roll in 
confectioners^ sugar. 

700.— MARRONS GLACIS 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon corn sirup 

1% cups water 1 pint chestnuts 

Shell one pint of chestnuts (see No. 243) and simmer 
in a sirup made of sugar and water until chestnuts are 
tender but not broken. Drain from sirup ; cook the sirup 
with the corn sirup to 310° F., or until sirup begins to 
discolor. Remove saucepan from fire, place in a sauce- 
pan of hot water, put chestnuts on a dipping needle or 
long pin, and dip in sirup until thoroughly coated ; place 
on an oiled platter. 

701.— NUTS AND FRUITS GLAC:^ 

2 cups sugar 1 cup water 

Vs teaspoon cream of tartar 

Boil sugar, water, and cream of tartar to 310 F. Fol- 
low directions for dipping Marrons Glaces (see No. 700). 
Cherries, strawberries, orange sections, grapes, or mint 
and rose leaves may be dipped in the same way. 



APPENDIX 



A.— TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASXJRES 



1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons , 

16 tablespoons 

1 cup 

2 pints 

Butter, 2 tablespoons solidly packed. 

Butter, 2 cups solidly packed 

Chocolate, 1 square 

Coffee, 4% cups 

Eggs, 9 in shells 

English Walnuts, chopped, 6 cups . . 
Flour, 4 tablespoons . ^ 

" Pastry, 4 cups 

" Bread, 4 cups 

" Entire Wheat, 3% cups 

" Graham, 4^/^ cups , 

Meat, 2 cups finely chopped 

Oatmeal, 2% cups 

Oats, Boiled, 5 cups 

Rice, 1% cups 

Rye Meal, 4% cups 

Sugar, Brown, 2% cups 

" Confectioners', 3^ cups 

" Granulated, 2 cups 

" Powdered, 2% cups 

Sugar or Salt, 2 tablespoons 



60 drops 

1 tablespoon 

1 cup 

% pint 

1 quart 

1 ounce 

1 pound 

1 ounce 

1 pound 

1 " 

1 " 

1 ounce 

1 pound 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 



u 
u 
u 
it 
ii 
u 
it 

H 
U 
U 
it 

it 



= 1 ounce 



S89 



B.— TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 



BAKING 

Beans, Boston Baked 8 Hours 

Biscuits, Baking Powder (according to size) 12-15 minutes 

Eaised (according to size) 12-20 minutes 

Bread (ten-cent loaf) 50 minutes 

Breads, Baking Powder Muffins (according to 

size) 18-30 minutes 

Com Bread (shallow pan) 15-20 minutes 

Gingerbread (shallow pan) 25 minutes 

Popovers (according to size) 25-30 minutes 

Yeast Muffins (according to size) 20-30 minutes 

Cake, Fruit 1^4-2 hours 

Layer 15-20 minutes 

Loaf (shallow pan) ^0 minutes 

Sponge (deep pan) 40 minutes 

Cookies and Wafers 6-15 minutes 

Cup Custards 25 minutes 

Fish, whole, 4 pounds 1 hour 

Fillets, or whole small 20-30 minutes 

Meats, Fillet of Beef (medium) 45-60 minutes 

Eump of Beef (medium) per pound 17 minutes 

Sirloin or Rib of Beef (medium) per pound 15 minutes 

Chicken, per pound .18 minutes 

Duck, Domestic 1 to 1% hours. 

Duck, Wild 15-20 minutes 

Goose, Domestic, per pound 20 minutes 

Leg of Lamb, per pound 18 minutes 

Pork Chops 30 minutes 

Loin of Pork, per pound 22 minutes 

Turkey, per pound 20 minutes 

Loin of Vieal, per pound 22 minutes 

Pies 35-45 minutes 

Rice or Tapioca Pudding, Cooked 45 minutes 

^ " " " Uncooked 2y2rW2 tours 

240 



APPENDIX 241 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKlNQ^Continued 

BOILING 

Cereals 

Com Meal 2 hours 

Hominy 2-3 hours 

Macaroni 20-30 minutes 

Oatmeal 4 hours 

Eice 20-30 minutes 

EoUed Oats 1/2 hour 

Spaghetti 20 minutes 

Qranulated or Eolled Wheat ^ hour 

Eggs 

Soft-cooked 3-6 minutes 

Hard-cooked 20 minutes 

Fish 

Bass, per pound 12 minutes 

Bluefish, per pound 12 " 

Cod, '' " 6 " 

Halibut, « « 12 " 

Lobster, whole 20 " 

Salmon, per pound 12 " 

Small fish * 6-10 minutes 

Meats 

, Corned Beef 3-4 hours 

Fresh Beef 3 hours 

Fowl, per pound 30 minutes 

Ham, « • " 25 « 

Mutton (leg), per pound 25 " 

Corned Tongue ' 3% hours 

Fresh Tongue 2V^ hours 

Vegetables 

Artichokes 30-45 minutes 

Asparagus 20-30 minutes 

Dried Beans 3-4 hours 

Lima and other Shell Beans 1~1Ml hours 

String Beans 1-2 hours 

Beets, old 2-4 hours 

" young 45 minutes 

Brussels Sprouts 20 " 

Cabbage 20-30 minutes 

Cauliflower .,,..,., , 25 minutes 



242 APPENDIX 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKH^G-- Qmiintted 

BOILING 

Green Com 10 minutes 

Onions 1-1% hours 

Oyster Plant (whole) 45 minutes 

Parsnips 45-60 minutes 

Peas, Fresh 20-60 " 

" Dried 3 hours 

Potatoes, White 20-30 minutes 

" Sweet 20-25 " 

Spinach 26-30 ** 

Tomatoes (stewed) 20-30 " 

Turnips, Yellow l%-2 hours 

'' White 1-11/2 " 

BROILING 

Bacon and Ham, sliced thin 4 minutes 

Chicken, Spring 20 minutes 

Chops, Lamb or Mutton 6-10 minutes^ 

Fish, Slices Cod, Halibut, Salmon, Swordfish 12-15 « 

" whole small, Smelt, Trout 8-10 " 

" " split, Bluefish, Scrod, Shad, 

Whitefish 18-22 « 

Oysters 3-4 ** 

Steak, 1 inch thick (medium) 8 " 

Squab 10-12 " 

Tripe and Liver 6 minutes 

PRYING 

« 

Chops or Cutlets, Breaded 5-8 minutes 

Croquettes and Fishballs 1 minute 

Doughnuts, Drop Cakes, Fritters, Muflfins. .. . 3-5 minutes 

Fish, rolled fillets and slices 5-7 " 

*' whole small. Smelt, Trout, Whitebait. . . 2-7 " 

Potatoes, Straws, Chips 3-4 ** 

" French Fried 6-8 « 



»o 

lO 
'O 

o 

>o 



0.— TEMPERATURE TABLE 

Fahrenheit 

Freezing point 32** 

Lukewarm Water or Milk, not over 98* 

Albumen begins to coagulate 134* 

Milk, Pasteurized, keep for % hour at 145' 

Simmering point 185* 

Boiling point. Water (sea level) 212* 

'' " Milk ( " " ) 214** 

Milk, scalded in double boiler 196* 

Baking, Apples 300* 

" Bananas *. 400° 

" Biscuit (baking powder) 460* 

" Biscuit (yeast) 425** 

" Loaf Bread 400** 

« Muffins 380** 

" Popovers 460'* 

« Cake: Cookies 400° 

« " Gingerbread 375** 

« « Fruit and Pound 300** 

" « Layer 380** 

« " Plain (shallow pan) 375** 

« « Sponge (shallow pan) 360** 

" Meats, Beef and Mutton, for 15 minutes. . 450** 

then reduce to. . 350° 

** " Chicken and Turkey, for 1/2 hour. . 400° 

then reduce to. . 300° 

" ** Goose and Lamb, for % hour.... 400° 

then reduce to. . 300* 

<* *' Pork and Veal, for 1/2 hour 350* 

then reduce to. . 260* 

^ Pastry : Pies, for l^ hour 450* 

then reduce to. . 350° 

« " Tart or Patty Shells 450° 

'« Potatoes 450* 

243 



1° 
I** 
1° 



iO 



244 APPENDIX 

TEMPERATURE TABLE— Continued 

Fahrenheit 

* Frying : Breaded Chops, Oysters 380** 

*< Croquettes, Fishballs 390 

" Doughnuts, Fritters SBO'^-STO 

" Potatoes, French Fried 380 

" Potato Chips or Straws * 400 

Fruit Jelly 222 

Sugar and Water Sirup, large thread 217 



o 

-370' 

o 
e 
o 
e 

" « " " feather 232* 

" '' " " Softball 240** 

« " « « hard ball 250** 

•" *' *' " for glaced fruits and nuts 310° 

" " " " for spun sugar 300* 

« " " « caramel 350* 

A very hot oven 460**-560* 

A hot oven 400'*-450* 

A moderate oven 350'*-400* 

A slow oven 250*-350* 

* To test fat without a thermometer, drop a bit of white bread 
into hot fat; it should brown in 

60 seconds for uncooked mixtures (Doughnuts, Fritters, etc.) 
40 seconds for cooked mixtures (Croquettes, Fishballs, etc.) 
20 seconds for Chops, French Fried Potatoes, etc. 



©.—TABLE OF CALOfilO VAtUEg 

OF AVERAGE PORTIONS OF FOOD. 

The following table gives the approximate number of calories 
and the approximate percentage of protein, fat, and carbo- 
hydrate in an average portion of food.* Unless otherwise stated 
an egg, orange, potato, etc., means one of average size. 







Number of 
Calories 


Percentage of 


Kind of Fbod 


Amount 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy. 
dratei 


Beverages 












Buttermilk (see 












Dairy Products) 












Chocolate ' 


1 cup 


200 


10 


49 


41 


Cocoa * 


1 " 


140 


14 


39 


47 


Eggnog 


1 " 


225 


21 


48 


31 


Grape Juice 


% cup 


100 








100 


Milk (See Dairy 












Products) 












Orange Juice 


% cup 


50 








100 


Breads 




. 








Baking Powder 


I small 


50 


11 


27 


62 


Biscuit 


biscuit 










Boston Brown 


1 slice % 


100 


10 


10 


80 


Bread 


in. x 3 in. 
diameter 










White Bread 


1 slice % 
in. x4 in.x 
2% in. 


60 


14 


6 


80 


Corn Bread 


1 piece 2 
in. x2 in^x 
1 in. 


100 


10 


24 


66 


Crackers, Gra- 


1 


60 


9 


20 


71 


ham 












Crackers, Soda 


1 


25 


10 


20 


70 



' This table is based chiefly on food analyses as determined in 
Bulletin 28 of the U. S. Experiment Stations (Chemical Composition 
of American Food Materials) ; How to Live, by Professor Irving 
Fisher and Dr. E. L. Fisk; and Feeding the Family, by Professor 
Mary S. Rose. 

' Made of half milk and half water. 

245 



246 



APPENDIX 



TABLE OF CALORIC YALVEQ^Continued 





Amoont 


Number of 
Calories 


Percentage of 


Kind of Food 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy. 
dratea 


Breads 












Croutons (fried) 


12 half-in. 


80 


7 


49 


44 




cubes 










Croutons 


12 half-in. 


45 


14 


4 


8a 


( toasted ) 


cubes 










Griddle Cakes 


2 cakes 
41^ in. in 
diameter 


200 


14 


25 


61 


Muffins, Com 


1 


133 


13 


25 


62 


Meal 












Muffins, One-egg 


1 


125 


12 


24 


64 


Popovers 


1 


100 


18 


27 


55 


Sandwich (Club) 


1 


500 


15 


69 


16 


Cake 


• 










Apple Sauce 


slice % in. 


128 


4 


23 


73 


Cake 


xl% in.x 
3% in. 










Doughnuts 


1 


200 


6 


45 


49 


Fruit Cake 


slice % in. 
x2 in.x 
4 in. 


300 


6 


26 


68 


Hot Water 


1 piece 2 


200 


8 


22 


70 


Gingerbread 


in. X 2 in. 
X 2 in. 










Hot Water 


Slice 1% 


100 


7 


7 


86 


Sponge 


in. X 1% in. 
x2 in. 










Macaroon 


1 


50 


6 


33 


61 


One-Egg Cake 


Slice % in. 
X 2 in. X 4 in. 


225 


8 


32 


60 


Candy and Sugar 












Bitter Chocolate 


1 oz. 


200 


8 


72 


20 


Chocolate Fudge 


1 cubic inch 


89 


2 


20 


78 


Sweet Milk 


1 oz. 


143 


7 


58 


35 


Chocolate 












Molasses 


1 table- 
spoon 


66 


3 





97 


Sugar, Granulated 


1 table- 
spoon 


55 








100 


Sugar 


1 full-sized 
lump 


28 








100 


Cereals 












Corn Flakes 


1 cup 


80 


6 


4 


90 



APPENDIX 



247 



TABLE OF CALORIC Y ALU^S— Continued 





Amonnt 


Number of 




Percentage of 


Kind of Food 












Calories 


ProteiD 


Fat 


Carboby- 
drates 


Cereals 










# 


Corn Meal Mush 


% cup 


75 


10 


5 


85 


Grape Nuts 


^ cup 


200 


12 


2 


86 


Macaroni 


% cup 


76 


15 


2 


83 


(cooked) 












Oatmeal 


% cup 


50 


17 


16 


67 


(cooked) 












Rice (steamed) 


% cup 


64 


9 


1 


90 


Shredded Wheat 


1 


100 


13 


5 


82 


Biscuit 












Wheat Meal 


% cup 


67 


12 


4 


84 


Mush 












Cheese Dishes 












Cheese Fondue 


% cup 


180 


17 


70 


13 


Welsh Rarebit 


% cup and 
1 thin slice 


350 


22 


57 


21 


Dairy Products 


[toast 










Butter 


1 tablespoon 


113 


1 


99 





Buttermilk 


I cup 


88 


33 


13 


54 


Cheese, Ameri- 


1% cubic 


100 


26 


71 


3 


can 


inches 










Cheese, Cottage 


2 cubic 
inches 


50 


76 


9 


15 


Cream, Thin 


%cup 


100 


5 


86 


9 


Milk, tJn. 


1 cup 


160 


20 


52 


28 


skimmed 












Milk, Skimmed 


1 cup 


88 


37 


7 


56 


Desserts 












Brown Betty 


% cup 


250 


3 


35 


62 


Chocolate 


% " 


312 


9 


48 


43 


Blancmange 












Cup Custard 


1 custard 


200 


17 


39 


44 


Lemon Jelly 


% cup 


100 


9 





91 


Pie, Apple 


1 piece • 


300 


3 


41 


56 


" Custard 


1 " 


256 


9 


32 


59 


" Lemon 


1 " 


367 


5 


27 


68 


Meringue 












" Mince 


1 « 


450 


8 


39 


53 


** Raisin 


1 " 


445 


5 


36 


59 


** Squash 


1 " 


360 


10 


25 


65 


Rice Custard 


% cup 


100 


18 


32 


50 


Indian Tapioca 


% " 


400 


11 


20 


69 


Vanilla Ice 


V2 " 


200 


6 


55 


39 


Cream 












(custard) 













• One piece equals one-sixth of a pie 9 inches in diameter. 



248 



APPENDIX 



TABLE OF CALORIC YALUES—Cfonttnued 





Amoant 


Namber of 


Percentage of 


Kind of Food 












CaiorleB 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Eggs 












Boiled 


1 


76 


36 


64 





Scrambled 


% cup 


133 


20 


76 


4 


Fata and Salad 












Dressings 












Bacon fat 


1 tablespoon 


132 





100 





Beef Drippings 


1 


113 





100 





Butter (See 












Dairy Prod- 












ucts) 












Cream (See 












, Dairy Prod- 












ucts) 












Crisco 


1 


134 





100 





Urd 


1 


132 





100 





Oleomargarine 


1 


113 


1 


99 


•0 


Olive Oil 


1 •* 


132 





100 





French Dressing 


1 


88 





100 





Mayonnaise 


1 


105 


1 


97 


2 


Dressing 






w ^V 






Cooked Dressing 


1 


25 


10 


64 


26 


Fruits 












Apple, baked 


1 large 


200 


1 


3 


96 


(with sugar) 






mm 






Bananas 


1 " 


100 


5 


6 


89 


Cantaloupe 


% 


50 


6 





94 


Cranberry 


% cup 


100 





1 


99 


Sauce 












Dates 


1 


25 


2 


7 


91 


Figs, dried 


1 


67 


6 


1 


94 


Grape Fruit 


1 medium 


100 


7 


4 


89 


Olives, Green 


2 medium 


30 


1 


83 


16 


Orange 


1 large 


100 


6 


3 


91 


Peach 


1 


40 


7 


2 


91 


Prunes, Stewed 


14 cup 


200 


2 





98 


Raisins 


% " 


100 


3 


9 


88 


Meats and Fish 












(cooked) 












Bacon 


1 thin slice 


25 


13 


87 





Dried Beef 


% cup 


100 


16 


65 


19 


(creamed) 












Hamburg Steak 


cake % in. 


100 


55 


45 





(broiled) 


thick 2y2 in. 
diameter 











APPENDIX 
TABLE OF CALORIC YALTTEB— Continued 



249 







Number of 
Calories 


Percentage of 


EiDd of Food 


Amonnt 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbohy- 
drates 


Meats and Fish 












(cooked) 












Roast Beef 


slice 5 in. x 


100 


46 


54 


.0 


StewedBeefwith 


2^ in. X ^ in. 










Dumpling 


1 cup 


290 


14 


24 


62 


Lamb Chops 


1 kidney chop 


125 


24 


76 





Pork Chops 


1 loin chop 


200 


18 


82 





Sausage 


2 small 


100 


20 


78 


2 


Clams (raw) 


8 


50 


56 


8 


36 


Codfish Balls 


1, 2 inches 
in diameter 


100 


14 


65 


21 


Creamed Codfish 


% cup 


100 


32 


46 


22 


Oysters (raw) 


6 


50 


49 


22 


29 


Salmon (canned) 


% cup 


100 


45 


55 





Sauces 


' ^ A 










Brown Sauce 


2 tablespoons 


37 


14 


49 


37 


Lemon Sauce 


2 


70 





30 


70 


Tomato Sauce 


2 


40 


5 


70 


25 


White Sauce 


2 


55 


8 


70 


22 


Soups 












Bouillon 


% cup 


19 


84 


8 


8 


Cream of Corn 


% " 


150 


12 


38 


50 


Corn Chowder 


% " 


185 


12 


43 


45 


Split Pea 


% " 


125 


26 


2 


72 


Tomato (canned) 


% " 


100 


12 


12 


76 


Vegetables 












Asparagus 


7 stalks 


33 


32 


8 


60 


Beans, Baked 


% cup 


225 


21 


18 


61 


Beans, Lima 


% " 


100 


23 


5 


72 


(fresh) 












Beans, String 


% " 


20 


22 


7 


71 


Beets 


1 beet, 2 in. 
diameter 


25 


14 


2 


84 


Corn (canned) 


V2 cup 


150 


11 


11 


78 


Peas (canned) 


% " 


67 


26 


3 


71 


Potatoes 












Mashed 


% cup 


110 


7 


48 


46 


Sweet, 


1 


200 


6 


5 


89 


Baked 












White, 


1 


100 


11 


1 


88 


Baked 












Spinach 


% cup 


20 


12 


8 


80 


Squash, winter 




55 


9 


7 


84 


Tomatoes 


% " 


30 


12 


8 


71 


(canned) 


w mm 











E.— APPROXIMATE CALORIC VALUE OF RAW FOOD 
MATERIALS AND THE APPROXIMATE PER- 
CENTAGE OF PROTEIN, FAT, AND CARBO- 
HYDRATE. 

By means of this table the fuel value of nearly all recipes may be 
computed.^ 



HateriAl 



Cereals 

Barley, Pearl 

Bran 

Bread Cnmibs, 
dried 

Bread Crumbs, soft 

Corn Meal 
" Starch 

Flour, Graham 
" White, sifted 

Macaroni, broken 

Oatmeal 

Rolled Oats 

Rice 

Chocolate, bitter 

Cocoa, dry 

Crackers, Boston 
Dairy Products 

Butter, See Fats 

Cheese, American 
(fresh) 

Condensed Milk, 
sweetened 

Condensed Milk, 
unsweetened 

Skimmed Milk' 

Whole Milk* 

Cream • 

Ej?gs* 

Egg, White 

Egg, Yolk 



Number of 
Calories 



755 
218 
373 

147 
504 
459 
508 
395 
355 
636 
280 
867 
173 
634 
1885 



498 
1993 
1067 

427 



i 



14 
56 



Percentage 


of 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo. 
hydrates 


10 


3 


87 


14 


6 


80 


14 


4 

• 


82 


14 


4 


82 


10 


5 


85 








100 


15 


6 


79 


12 


4 


84 


15 


2 


83 


17 


16 


67 


17 


16 


67 


9 


1 


90 


8 


72 


20 


17 


63 


30 


13 


9 


78 


26 


71 


3 


11 


23 


66 


23 


51 


26 


97 


3 





20 


80 






* See Note 1 on page 245. 
' Sm Table D on page 245. 



800 





APPENDIX 






S51 




TABLE "R^Chntinued 










Quantity 


Namber of 
Calories 


Percentage of 


XAterial 


Protein 


Fat 


ll 












«J? 


Fats 












Butter 


j 1 cup 
( 1 pound 


1802) 
3605 f 


1 


99 





Crisco 


j 1 cup 
1 pound 


2136) 
4273 f 





100 





T^rd 


1 cup 
1 pound 


2110) 

4220 f 





100 





Oleomargarine 


1 cup 
1 pound 


1492 j 
3410 f 


1 


99 





Olive Oil 


1 cup 


1600 





100 





Suet 


i 1 cup 
( 1 pound 


749) 
3424 f 


3 


97 





Fruits 












Apricots, dried 


1 pound 


1260 


7 


3 


90 


Blackberries 


1 cup 


200 





16 


76 


Concord Grapes 


1 large bunch 


100 


5 


15 


80 


Cranberries 


1 cup 


46 


4 


11 


86 


Currants, dried 


1 " 


502 


3 


5 


92 


Dates, dried (un- 
stoned) 


1 cup 
1 pound 


508 
1416 C 


2 


7 


91 


Figs, chopped 


1 cup 
1 pound 


507 ) 
1437 f 


5 


1 


94 


Lemon Juice 


% cup 


44 








100 


Pineapple (canned, 


1 cup 


369 


1 


4 


95 


grated ) 












Other fruits » 












Gelatine 


1 oimce 


106 


100 








Maple Sirup 


1 cup 


976 








100 


Meats and Fish 












(Edible portion) 
Beef, Sirloin Steak 












1 pound 


1143 


31 


69 





Beef, Round 


« 


950 


54 


46 





Beef, Tongue 


« 


• 727 


47 


53 





Chicken, young 


tt 


500 


79 


21 





Clams, long 


1 pint 


240 


56 


8 


36 


Cod 


1 pound 


326 


95 


5 





Fowl 


i( 


1050 


35 


65 





Goose 


<( 


1818 


16 


84 





Halibut 


<( 


571 


61 


39 





Ham 


a 


1940 


29 


71 





Lamb, forequarter 


u 


1430 


25 


76 





Liver 


u 


605 


61 


39' 






'See Table D on page 245. 



252 



APPENDIX 



TABLE B— Continued 





Qaantity 


Nomber of 
Calories 


Percentage of 


Material 


Protein 


Fat 


si 












s^ 


Meats and Fish 












Lobster 


1 pound 


390 


78 


20 


2 


Mackerel 


4k 


645 


50 


50 





Mutton, Leg 


(( 


1105 


41 


59 





Oysters 


1 pint 


230 


49 


22 


29 


Salt Pork, fat 


1 pound 


3670 


2 


98 





Shad 


»» 


762 


46 


54 





Turkey 
Veal, Breast 


(( 


1333 


29 


71 





«< 


840 


47 


53 





Other Meats and 












Fish* 












Molasses 


1 cup 


976 


3 





97 


Nuts (shelled) 












Almonds 


1 cup 


734 


13 


76 


11 


Peanuts 


1 ** 


663 


19 


63 


18 


Peanut Butter 


% cup 


640 


19 


69 


12 


Pecans 


1 cup 


1145 


5 


87 


8 


Walnuts, English 


1 '* 


600 


11 


82 


7 


8uga>r 












Brown 


1 cup 


625 








100 


Granulated 


1 '* 


840 








100. 


Powdered 


1 " 


672 








100 


Vegetables 












Beans, dried 


1 cup 


684 


26 


5 


69 


Beans, Lima, dried 


1 ** 


641 


21 


4 


75 


Cabbage 


1 pound 


145 


20 


9 


71 


Carrots 


1 " 


210 


10 


5 


85 


Celery (cut in %- 


1 cup 


24 


24 


5 


71 


inch pieces) 












Corn, canned 


1 t( 


255 


11 


11 


78 


Lentils (dried) 


1 *' 


640 


29 


3 


68 


Lettuce 


1 large head 


50 


25 


14 


61 


Mushrooms 


1 pound 


211 


31 


8 


61 


Onions 


j 1 onion 
( I pound 


25) 
225 ] 


13 


6 1 


81 


Parsnips 


1 pound 


291 


10 


7 


83 


Peas, canned 


1 cup 


134 


26 


3 


71 


(drained) 












Peas, dried 


1 *' 


675 


28 


3 


69 


Tapioca 


1 cup 


640 








100 


Tomatoes, fresh 


1 pound 


100 


21 


8 


71 


Tomatoes, canned 


1 cup 


60 


21 


8 


71 


Turnip 


1 cup i/^-inch 


50 


13 


5 


82 


Other Vegetables * 


[cubes 











' See Table D on page 245. 



F.— NORMAL WEIGHTS FOR MEN AND WOMEN ' 







WHAT MEN SHOULD 1 


WEIG 


H 












AoBs: 


15-24 


26-29 


80-34 


85-89 


40-44 


45-49 


50-64 


65-59 


60-64 


5 ft. 


Oin. 




120 


125 


128 


131 


133 


134 


134 


134 


131 


6 ft. 


1 in. 




122 


126 


129 


131 


134 


136 


136 


136 


134 


5 ft. 


2 in. 




124 


128 


131 


133 


136 


138 


138 


138 


137 


5 ft. 


Sin. 




127 


131 


134 


136 


139 


141 


141 


141 


140 


5 ft. 


4 in. 




131 


135 


138 


140 


143 


144 


145 


145 


144 


5 ft. 


5 in. 




134 


138 


141 


143 


146 


147 


149 


149 


148 


5 ft. 


6 in. 




138 


142 


145 


147 


150 


151 


153 


153 


153 


5 ft. 


7 in. 




142 


147 


150 


152 


155 


156 


158 


158 


158 


5 ft. 


Sin. 




146 


151 


154 


157 


160 


161 


163 


163 


163 


5 ft. 


Oin. 




150 


155 


159 


162 


165 


166 


167 


168 


168 


5 ft. 


10 in. 




154 


159 


164 


167 


170 


171 


172 


173 


174 


«5ft. 


11 in. 




159 


164 


169 


173 


175 


177 


177 


178 


180 


6 ft. 


Oin. 




165 


170 


175 


179 


180 


183 


182 


183 


185 


6 ft. 


1 in. 




170 


177 


181 


185 


186 


189 


188 


189 


189 


6 ft. 


2 in. 




176 


184 


188 


192 


194 


196 


194 


194 


192 


WHAT WOMEN SHOULD WEIGH 




AOBS 


: 16-19 


20-34 


25-29 


80-34 


35-39 


40-44 


45-49 


60-54 


55-59 
128 


60-«4 


4 ft. 


11 in. 


111 


113 


115 


117 


119 


122 


125 


128 


126 


5 ft. 


Oin. 


113 


114 


117 


119 


122 


125 


128 


130 


131 


129 


5 ft. 


1 in. 


115 


116 


118 


121 


124 


128 


131 


133 


134 


132 


5 ft. 


2 in. 


117 


118 


120 


123 


127 


132 


134 


137 


137 


136 


5 ft. 


3 in. 


120 


122 


124 


127 


131 


135 


138 


141 


141 


140 


5 ft. 


4 in. 


123 


125 


127 


130 


134 


138 


142 


145 


145 


144 


5 ft. 


5 in. 


125 


128 


131 


135 


139 


143 


147 


149 


149 


148 


5 ft. 


6 in. 


128 


132 


135 


139 


143 


146 


151 


153 


153 


152 


5 ft. 


7 in. 


132 


135 


139 


143 


147 


150 


154 


157 


157 


155 


5 ft. 


Sin. 


136 


140 


143 


147 


151 


155 


158 


161 


161 


160 


5 ft. 


9in.' 


140 


144 


147 


151 


155 


159 


163 


166 


166 


165 


5 ft. 


10 in. 


144 


147 


151 


155 


159 


163 


167 


170 


170 


169 


5 ft. 


11 in. 


149 


153 


155 


158 


162 


166 


170 


174 


174 


172 


6 ft. 


Oin. 


154 


157 


159 


162 


165 


169 


173 


177 


177 


175 



* Based upon statistics furnished by the Mutual Benefit Life In- 
surance Company of Newark, New Jersey. 

253 



G.— LIST OF GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS ON 

FOODS AND COOKING ' 

Beans, Peas, and other Legumes as Food. Farmers' Bulletin, 121 

Bread and Bread Making " " 389 

Canned Fruit, Preserves, and Jellies " " 203 

Canning Tomatoes; Home and Club 

Work " " 521 

Canning Vegetables in the Home " " 359 

Care of Food in the Home " " 375 

Cereal Breakfast Foods " " 249 

Cheese; Economical Uses in the Home.. " " 487 
Chemical Composition of Ameri- 
can Food Materials Experiment Stations 

Bulletin, 28 

Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using 

It Farmers' Bulletin, 565 

Eggs and Their Uses as Food Farmers' Bulletin, 128 

Fireless Cooker, Hay Box, or " " 296 

Fish as Food " " 85 

Food for Young Children Farmers' Bulletin, 717 

Food Customs and Diet in Ameri- 
can Homes Experiment Stations 

Circular, 110 

Fruit, Use of, as Food Farmers' Bulletin, 293 

Functions and Uses of Food Experiment Stations 

Circular, 46 
Grape Juice, Unfermented, Manufac- 
ture and Use of Farmers' Bulletin, 644 

Honey and Its Uses in the Home " " 653 

Household Equipment, Selection of Department of Agri- 
culture Year Book, 
1914 
Measurements for the Household Standards Circular, 55 

* Many of these bulletins are furnished free upon application to 
one's Congressman. A list of Farmers* Bulletins, and a price list 
of other government publications on foods and cooking, will be sent 
on application to the Superintendent of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 

254 



APPENDIX 255 

LIST OP GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS ON FOODS 
AND COOKINQ—Gontintud 

Meat: Economical Use of in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin, 391 

Meats: Composition and Cooking " " 34 

Milk, The Care of and Its Use in the 

Home '' '' 413 

Milk, The Uses of as Food " " 363 

Mushrooms and Other Common Fungi. Agriculture Bulletin, 

175 

Mushrooms, Preserving Wild Farmers' Bulletin, 342 

Nutrition of Man in U. S., Investiga- 
tion on Experiment Stations 

Office 
Nutrition, Principles of, and Nutritive 

Value of Food Farmers' Bulletin, 142 

Nuts and Their Use as Food " " 332 

Olive Oil and Its Substitution Chemistry " 77 

Oysters : The Food that has not " Gone 
Up " Department of Com- 
merce, Bureau of 
Fisheries, Economic 
Circular No. 18 

Peanut Oil Farmers' Bulletin, 751 

Popcorn for Home Use Farmers' Bulletin, 563 

Kaisins, Figs, and Other Dried Fruits, 

and Their Use Agriculture Year Book, 

1912; Separate, 610 

Sugar as Food Farmers' Bulletin, 93 

Vegetables, Preparation of, for the 
Table Farmers' Bulletin, 256 



INDEX 



INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

30 After-dinner Coffee 25 

241 Almonds, Salted 97 

180 Anchovy Sauce 80 

Appetizers and Eelishes 

2 Asheville Canapes 17 

11 Cantaloupe Cocktail 19 

8 Celery Relish 19 

9 Cheese and Apple Rings 19 

3 Club Canapes 17 

1 Cocktail Sauce 17 

3 Crab Meat Canapes 18 

17 Cucumber Pickles 21 

12 Fruit Cocktail 19 

6 Gloucester Canapes 18 

5 Mock Crab « 18 

18 Pepper Hash 22 

14 Piccalilli 20 

19 Pickled Nasturtium Seeds 22 

10 Spanish Cheese 19 

15 Table Sauce 20 

16 Tomato Ketchup 21 

7 Tuna Canapes 18 

13 Winter Chili Sauce 20 

442 Apple and Cranberry Shortcake 160 

366 " " Mint Salad 135 

539 " Cake, Dutch 189 

508 " " , Ginger 180 

9 " , Cheese and. Rings 19 

529 « Filling 186 

325 " Fritters 123 

540 '' Pudding, Steamed 190 

538 " Roulettes 189 

490 " Sauce Cake 174 

659 Apples, Baked with Dates 224 

693 Apricot Paste 234 

2 Asheville Canapes 17 

34 Asparagus Soup 27 

162 Bacon and Chicken Livers 72 

163 <* and Lamb's Liver, Fried 73 

259 



260 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

151 Bacon, Breakfast 69 

426 " Sandwich EoUs 154 

36 Baked Bean Soup 28 

448 " Bean and Lettuce Sandwiches 163 

351 " " Salad 130 

247 " Beans 100 

646 " Indian Pudding 191 

674 " Pears 228 

678 " Rhubarb ana Bananas 229 

555 " Rice Custard 194 

556 " " Pudding 194 

Baking defined 15 

Baking Powder 10 

397 " " 146 

424 " " Biscuit 154 

367 Banana and Apple Salad 135 

560 " " Grape Juice Jelly 196 

368 " " Peanut Salad 135 

326 Banana Fritters 123 

558 " Royal 196 

181 " Sauce 80 

443 " Shortcake 161 

541 " Toast 190 

559 " Whip 196 

664 Bananas, Baked 225 

665 Bananas with Figs and Nuts 226 

666 Bar-le-Duc Currants, Mock 226 

398 Barley Bread 146 

248 Beans, Black, Thick Puree of 100 

35 " , " , Puree of 27 

37 " , Red Kidney, Puree of 28 

440 Beaten Biscuit, Maryland 158 

182 Bechamel Sauce 80 

134 Beef, American Chop Suey 62 

130 " and Bacon Cakes 61 

128 " , Broiled Chopped 60 

126 " , " Flank Steak 60 

132 
120 
173 
170 
133 
129 
131 



u 
« 
u 
u 
c< 
a 



Casserole of 62 

Corned 57 

" ,Hash 76 

Corned, Scalloped 75 

Creamed Dried, with Cheese 62 

Hamburg Meat Cakes 61 

Loaf 61 



INDEX 261 

NO. PAGE 

122 Beef, Pot Koast 58 

119 " , Pressed 57 

121 " , Koast 58 

169 « , Savory 75 

123 " , Shin of, with Creole Sauce 69 

127 " Steak, Country Style 60 

70 " Stew 40 

124 " ,StuffedShin 59 

369 Bellevue Salad 135 

Beverages 

31 Cafe au Lait 26 

33 Chocolate 26 

32 Cocoa 26 

30 Coffee, After-dinner 25 

20 " , Egg, and Milk 23 

29 " , Filtered 25 

24 Ginger Ale Punch 24 

23 " Punch 24 

22 Grape Eggnog 23 

21 « Juice 23 

25 Mint Julep (Ginger Ale) 24 

26 " Lemonade 24 

27 Tea 25 

28 '' , Iced 25 

424 Biscuit, Baking Powder 154 

440 " , Beaten, Maryland 158 

430 " , Entire Wheat 155 

431 " , Fruit Tea 156 

432 " , Graham 156 

429 « , Quick Drop 155 

183 Black Butter 81 

56 Blackberry Mold 197 

542 " Pudding 190 

563 Blancmange, Chocolate 197 

578 « , Sea Moss 202 

412 Blueberry Muffins 151 

630 Blueberry Pie 216 

543 " Pudding 190 

212 Boiled Eggs 88 

521 " Icing 184 

Boiling defined 15 

686 Bonbon Centers 233 

50 Bouillon, Tomato 32 

Braising defined 15 

399 Bran Bread (Baking Powder) 146 



262 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

378 Bran Bread (Yeast) 138 

510 " Drop Cookies 180 

413 " Muffins 151 

Bread 9 

Bread, Baking Powder 

398 Barley 146 

399 Bran 146 

403 Brown, Bread Crumb 148 

428 CoflFee Cake, Quick 155 

405 Corn 148 

409 " Cake, Custard 150 

411 « " , Rhode Island 150 

406 *' , Country 149 

401 Dark Nut 147 

400 Date 147 

404 Indian Date, Steamed 148 

410 Molasses Corn 150 

402 Quick Raisin 147 

Bread, Yeast 

378 Bran 138 

387 Buns 14 

388 Crescents 142 

380 Date 139 

379 Entire Wheat 139 

381 Fried 139 

382 Graham and Corn 140 

383 Irish 140 

384 Oatmeal 140 

396 Roulettes 145 

385 Rye 141 

386 Shredded Wheat 141 

377 White 138 

403 Bread Crumb Brown Bread 148 

217 " Omelet 90 

184 " Sauce 81 

471 " , Stale to freshen 168 

208 " Stuffing 86 

439 Breakfast Puffs 158 

460 Brews 165 

Broiling defined 15 

544 Brown Betty 190 

403 ** Bread, Bread Crumb 148 

461 " " Toast 165 

185 " Sauce 81 

486 " Sugar Sirup 172 



INDEX 263 

NO. P^GE 

387 Buns 141 

Butter 5 

472 Buttered Crumbs 168 

422 Buttermilk Muffins 153 

353 Cabbage and Beet Salad 131 

354 " " Cranberry 131 

250 " Baked .' 101 

251 " Cooked in Milk 101 

31 Cafe au Lait 26 

Cake 10 

Cake 

490 Apple Sauce 174 

491 Canada War 174 

503 Charlotte Russe 178 

604 Chocolate Marshmallow Roll 179 

602 Cream Pie 178 

492 Date I'i^S 

493 Fudge I'^S 

608 Ginger Apple 180 

606 Gingerbread, with Egg 179 

605 " , without Egg 179 

607 " , Sour Milk 180 

609 Ginger Gems 180 

503 Jelly Roll ITS 

494 Old-Fashioned Pork 175 

495 One-Egg 176 

496 Orange l'^6 

497 Plain 176 

498 Spice I'^T 

500 Sponge 1'?"^ 

501 Velvet Sponge 178 

499 White l'<"?^ 

Caloric Value, Tables of 245, 250 

Calorie defined 2 

Calories, Daily Requirement 2 

414 Cambridge Muffins 151 

491 Canada War Cake l'^^ 

2 Canapes, Asheville 17 

3 " , Club I'T 

4 '' , Crab Meat 18 

6 " , Gloucester 18 

5 " , Mock Crab 18 

7 " , Tuna 18 

673 Candied Grape Fruit Peel 228 



264 



INDEX 



NO. 



693 
686 
688 
687 
685 
689 
684 
690 
696 
700 
694 
692 
691 
701 
697 
698 
699 
695 



11 
590 
186 
622 
601 
547 



256 
257 

39 
449 
252 

40 
245 
8 
253 
355 
187 
462 



PAGE 

Candies 11 

Candies 

Apricot Paste 234 

Bonbon Centers 233 

Chocolate Bonbons 233 

Fondant " 233 

" , Coffee 232 

" , Mint 233 

" , Plain 232 

" , Quick 233 

Fruit Wafers 236 

Marrons Glaces 237 

Mint Paste 235 

Mints, After-dinner 234 

Mints, Quick 234 

Nuts and Fruits Glace 237 

Spiced Baisins 236 

Stuffed Dates 236 

" Prunes 236 

Turkish Delight 235 

Candle Stubs 12 

Canned Vegetables 8 

Cantaloupe Cocktail 19 

Canton Ginger Sherbet 206 

Caper Sauce 81 

Caramel Icing 184 

« Sauce • 209 

" Toast Pudding 191 

Carbohydrates 1 

" , Uses 1 

" , Sources 1 

" , Daily Requirement 1 

Carrots Sauteed 103 

'' Vinaigrette 103 

Cauliflower 28 

Celery and Egg Sandwiches 163 

, Braised 102 

, Cream of 29 

, Nut, and Potato Loaf 98 

Relish 19 

Root, Creamed 102 

" Salad 131 

Sauce 82 

Toast 166 

Cereals 8 



INDEX 265 

NO. PAGE 

Cereals 

308 Corn Meal and Beef Scrapple 117 

293 " « Mush 113 

294 Hominy, Steamed 113 

295 Macaroni and Cheese, Scalloped 113 

297 Noodle Balls (for Soup) 114 

296 " Paste 114 

298 Oatmeal, Scotch 114 

301 Polenta, French Fried 115 

302 " , Spanish 116 

299 '^ with Cheese 115 

300 Polenta with Dates 115 

305 Kice and Cocoanut Loaf 117 

303 " " Ham, Baked 116 

304 " , Boiled 116 

306 Kisotto 117 

307 Samp, Steamed 117 

310 Spaghetti and Ham, Baked 118 

311 " , Creole 118 

312 " , Italian 119 

309 Wheat and Sausage Scrapple 118 

503 Charlotte Kusse, Cake for 178 

562 « " Filling 197 

Cheese 7 

9 ** and Apple Rings 19 

450 " " Nut Sandwiches 163 

237 Cheese, Baked Rice with 96 

317 " Balls 120 

451 " Club Sandwiches 163 

234 " , Cottage 96 

235 " , Crackers and. Baked 96 

318 " Croquettes 121 

231 " Croustades 95 

232 " Custard 95 

511 " Drops 181 

233 " Fondue 95 

415 " Muffins 151 

236 " Paste 96 

188 " Sauce 82 

189 " " with Chives 82 

238 " , Scalloped, Toast and 97 

42 " Soup 29 

10 *' , Spanish 19 

654 " Straws 223 

655 " " (Left-over Paste) 223 



266 INDEX 

170. PAGE 

466 Cheese Toast 167 

239 " Tomato Rarebit 97 

656 " Wafers 223 

gj^2 " ** 181 

240 " Welsh Rarebit. .... . . . . . . . . . . . ! ! . ! /..,/, '. 97 

631 Cherry Pie 217 

632 " " , Mock 217 

244 Chestnuts, Baked 98 

243 ** , to Shell 98 

56 Chicken and Okra Soup 35 

55 " , Cream of 35 

162 " Livers and Bacon 72 

345 " Salad 129 

452 " Sandwiches 164 

13 Chili Sauce, Winter 20 

33 Chocolate 26 

663 ''' Blancmange 197 

688 " Bonbons 233 

513 " Cookies 181 

581 " Ice Cream 203 

623 '' Icing 184 

504 " Marshmallow Roll 179 

603 " " , Sauce 209 

602 " Sauce 209 

Chowders 

75 Clam 43 

Y6 Corn 43 

77 " and Tomato 44 

78 Fish 44 

79 Oyster 45 

80 Potato 46 

81 Salmon 45 

82 Salt Fish 46 

83 Vegetable 46 

591 Cider Frappe 206 

190 " Sauce 82 

487 " Sirup 173 

Cinders 13 

657 Cinnamon Hearts 223 

604 " Sauce 210 

466 " Toast 167 

57 Clam Bisque 36 

58 " Bouillon 36 

75 " Chowder 43 

69 Clear Soup 36 



INDEX 267 

NO. PAGE 

3 Club Canapes 17 

12 Cocktail, Fruit 19 

11 " , Cantaloupe 19 

1 " Sauce 17 

32 Cocoa 26 

582 " ice Cream 204 

524 " Icing 185 

564 Coconut and Orange Jelly ; 198 

113 Codfish, Creamed 65 

118 " , Spanish 66 

84 Cod Steaks, Baked 47 

30 CoflFee, After-dinner 25 

569 " and Rice Jelly 199 

428 " Cake, Quick 165 

565 " Caramel Custards 198 

530 " Cream Filling 186 

20 " ,Egg, andMilk 23 

29 " , Filtered 25 

583 " Ice Cream 204 

525 " Icing 185 

566 " Junket 198 

605 " Sauce 210 

Coloring 10 

Condiments 12 

Cookies 

610 Bran Drop 180 

511 Cheese Drops 181 

512 " Wafers 181 

613 Chocolate 181 

614 Ginger Wafers 182 

617 Macaroons, Oatmeal 182 

618 " , Peanut 183 

615 Marshmallow Wafers 182 

616 Molasses Brownies 182 

619 Raisin Drop 183 

520 Walnut Wafers 183 

' Cooking, Kinds of, defined 15 

" Fats 6 

" , Time Tables for 240 

77 Com and Tomato Chowder 44 

406 " Bread, Country 149 

410 " " , Molasses 150 

405 " " , without Eggs .. • 148 

409 " Cake, Custard 150 

411 " ", Rhode Island 150 



268 INDEX 

NO. P^GE 

76 Corn Chowder 43 

41 " , Cream of • 29 

327 " Fritters. 123 

308 " Meal and Beef Scrapple 117 

478 " '' Griddle Cakes 170 

293 " " Mush 113 

425 '' " Rolls 154 

483 « " Waffles 172 

407 " Muffins 149 

393 " " , Raised 144 

264 " Pudding 102 

408 *' and Rice Muffins 149 

346 Coronado Salad 129 

234 Cottage Cheese 96 

649 " Pudding 192 

6 Crab Canapes, Mock 18 

4 " Meat Canapes 18 

235 Crackers and Cheese, Baked 96 

668 Cranberry Conserve 226 

328 " Fritters 124 

416 " Muffins 152 

633 " Pie 217 

634 « " (Open) 217 

645 " Pudding, Baked 191 

671 " Sauce 227 

606 " " (Pudding) 210 

692 " Sherbet 206 

667 " Whip 199 

Cream 6 

370 « Cheese Salad 136 

371 " " " , Frozen 136 

40 " of Celery Soup 29 

65 " of Chicken Soup 35 

41 " " Corn '' 29 

46 " "Pea " 31 

631 " Filling - 186 

626 " Icing 185 

602 " Pie 178 

463 " Toast 166 

464 " " , Sauce for 166 

96 Creamed Fish 60 

213 Creamy Eggs on Toast 88 

218 " Omelet 90 

214 Creole Eggs 89 

191 " Sauce 83 



INDEX 269 

NO. PAGE 

388 Crescents 142 

475 Crisp Sticks 169 

Croquettes 

192 Croquette Sauce 83 

318 Cheese 121 

317 Cheese Balls 120 

319 Fish 121 

320 Meat 121 

321 Potato and Bean 122 

322 Eice 122 

323 " and Raisin 122 

324 Salmon and Potato 122 

473 Croustades 168 

231 " , Cheese 95 

474 Croutons 169 

417 Crumb Muffins 152 

472 Crumbs, Buttered 168 

315 " for Fried Food 120 

209 Crust Stuffing 87 

17 Cucumber Pickles 21 

193 " Sauce 83 

256 Cucumbers Sauteed 103 

608 Currant Jelly Sauce 210 

655 Custard, Baked Rice 194 

232 " , Cheese 95 

565 " , Coffee Caramel 198 

636 « Pie 218 

607 " Sauce 210 

663 Dark Red Apple Sauce 225 

444 Date and Apple Shortcake 161 

532 " " Fig Filling 186 

380 " Bread 139 

400 " " 147 

404 " '* , Steamed 148 

492 " Cake '. . . 175 

394 " Muffins, Raised 144 

418 " " 152 

427 " Rolls 154 

609 " Sauce 211 

Desserts, Cold 

668 Banana Royal 196 

559 Banana Whip 196 

560 Banana and Grape Juice Jelly 196 

561 Blackberry Mold 197 



270 INDEX 

NO. 

Desserts, Cold (continued) 

562 Charlotte Russe Filling 197 

663 Chocolate Blancmange 197 

564 Coconut and Orange Jelly 198 

569 Coffee and Rice Jelly 199 

565 " Caramel Custards 198 

566 " Junket 198 

567 Cranberry Whip 199 

568 Custard, Soft 199 

570 Fruit Cream 199 

571 Fruit Jelly, Spiced 200 

572 " Whip 200 

573 Pineapple Pudding 200 

575 Prune and Wheat Mold 201 

574 " Whip 200 

576 Prunes and Cranberries, Jellied 201 

577 Rice Mold 202 

578 Sea Moss Blancmange 202 

Desserts, Frozen 

579 Ices, to Freeze 203 

590 Canton Ginger Sherbet 206 

581 Chocolate Ice Cream 203 

591 Cider Frappe 206 

582 Cocoa Ice Cream 204 

583 Coffee " " 204 

592 Cranberry and Raisin Sherbet 206 

580 Frozen Custard 203 

600 " Watermelon 208 

593 Fruit Sherbet 206 

594 Grape Bombe 207 

595 " Sherbet 207 

596 Jelly " 207 

584 Mint Ice Cream 204 

585 Orange Velvet Cream 204 

586 Philadelphia Ice Cream 205 

597 Pineapple Sherbet 207 

587 Prune Ice Cream 205 

598 Somerset Sherbet 208 

588 Strawberry Ice Cream 205 

599 " Sherbet 208 

589 Vanilla Ice Cream 205 

Desserts, Hot 

539 Apple Cake, Dutch 189 

508 " " , Ginger 180 

540 " Pudding, Steamed 190 



INDEX 271 

NO. PAGE 

Desserts, Hot (continued) 

638 Apple Koulettes ; 189 

541 Banana Toast 190 

642 Blackberry Pudding 190 

643 Blueberry '* 190 

644 Brown Betty 190 

647 Caramel Toast Pudding 191 

648 Chocolate Pudding, Steamed 192 

649 Cottage Pudding 192 

645 Cranberry Pudding, Baked 191 

550 Fig " , Steamed 192 

551 Fruit " , " 193 

546 Indian " , Baked 191 

553 *' Tapioca Pudding 194 

552 Mock Indian " 193 

557 Mulled Rice 195 

554 Peach Dumplings 194 

655 Rice Custard, Baked 194 

556 Rice Pudding " , 194 

331 Doughnuts .- 125 

332 " , Small Tea 125 

471 " , Stale, to Freshen 168 

194 Drawn Butter ' 83 

479 Dried Crumb Griddle Cakes 171 

658 " Fruit to cook 224 

38 Dried Lima Bean Soup 28 

429 Drop Biscuit, Quick 155 

Dry Steaming defined 16 

72 Dumplings 41 

554 " , Peach 194 

356 Dutch Potato Salad 132 

Economy, General Suggestions for. See Chapter I 1 

22 Eggnog 23 

Eggs 6 

Eggs, see also Omelets 90 

212 Boiled 88 

213 Creamy, on Toast 88 

214 Creole 89 

316 Egg for Dipping Fried Food 120 

224 Scalloped, with Cheese 92 

225 Scrambled, with Sausages 93 

226 " " Tomatoes 93 

227 Shirred 93 

228 " , with Ham 93 



272 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

Eggs (continued) 

230 Shirred, with Potato and Ham 94 

229 Souffleed, with Ham Toast 94 

215 with Cheese and Spaghetti 89 

216 with Ham and Tomatoes 89 

258 Egg Plant, Baked 103 

259 " " , Fried 103 

260 " " , Julienne 104 

195 Egg Sauce 84 

430 Entire Wheat Biscuit 155 

379 " " Bread 139 

437 " " Popovers 158 

Extracts, flavoring 10 

Fat 5 

" , Temperatures for Frying 244 

313 " , To Clarify 120 

314 " , To Try Out 120 

Fats as Food, Chief Uses 1 

" Sources* 1 

Daily Requirement 1 

Cooking 6 

672 Fig Paste 227 

Fillings 

529 Apple 186 

530 Coffee Cream 186 

531 Cream 186 

532 Date and Fig 186 

533 Fudge 187 

534 Marshmallow 187 

535 Mocha 187 

536 Orange 187 

537 Prune 188 

29 Filtered Coffee 25 

105 Finnan Haddie, Baked in Milk 63 

109 " " , Broiled 64 

Fireless Cooker 13 

Fish 5 

Fish, 

84 Cod Steaks, Baked 47 

113 Creamed Codfish 55 

96 Creamed 60 

105 Finnan Haddie, Baked 53 

109 " " , Broiled 54 

87 Flounder, Fried Fillet 48 



n 


103 


» 


85 


i 


86 


1 


106 


1 


111 


1 
i 


107 




92 




94 




93 




89 




91 




95 




90 




102 




112 




99 




100 




101 




108 




110 




117 




88 




104 




118 




98 




97 




115 




114 




78 




319 




116 




210 




87 




687 




685 




689 




684 




690 




233 



INDEX 273 

NO. PAGE 

Fish (continued) 

Fried Scallops 52 

Haddock, Baked StuflFed 47 

Halibut, Boiled 47 

Herring, •Baked 53 

" , Broiled 54 

Mackerel, Baked Salt, Spiced 53 

Oyster Pie, Creamed 49 

" Shortcake 50 

Oysters and Macaroni 49 

" , Broiled 48 

" , Creamed 49 

" , Panned 50 

Oysters, with Brown Sauce 48 

Salmon and Peas, Souffle 52 

" , Broiled Smoked 54 

" , Creole 51 

" , Dutch 51 

" Loaf 52 

Salt Codfish Baked with Crackers . . ; 54 

" , Broiled 54 

« " , Souffle 56 

Sauteed with. Salt Pork 48 

Shrimps and Rice, Louisiana 53 

Spanish Codfish 56 

Timbales 51 

Warmed over 50 

Fish and Potato Pie 50 

Fish Balls 65 

Fish Cakes with Pork Scraps 55 

Fish Chowder 44 

" Croquettes 121 

" Hash 56 

" Stufimg 87 

Flavoring Extracts 10 

Flounder, Fried Fillet of 48 

Fondant Bonbons 233 

" , Coffee 224 

" Mints 238 

" , Plain 232 

" , Quick 233 

Fondue, Cheese 95 

Food Classified 1 

" Daily Requirement 2 

" Government Publications 254 



274 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

140 Fowl, Brown Fricassee 64 

220 French Cheese Omelet 91 

338 *' Dressing ' 127 

301 " Fried Potatoes 115 

219 " Omelet 90 

467 " Toast 167 

Fricasseeing defined 15 

381 Fried Bread 139 

Fritters 

325 Apple, Sliced 123 

326 Banana 123 

327 Com 123 

328 Cranberry 124 

329 Rice and Currant 124 

330 Salmon 124 

680 Frozen Custard 203 

Fruit 

663 Apple Sauce, Dark Red 225 

659 Baked Apples, with Dates 224 

664 " Bananas 225 

674 " Pears 228 

678 " Rhubarb and Bananas 229 

665 Bananas, with Figs and Nuts 226 

666 Bar-le-Duc Currants, Mock 226 

673 Candied Grape Fruit Peel 228 

668 Cranberry Conserve 226 

671 " Sauce 227 

658 Dried, to Cook 224 

672 Fig Paste, Laxative 227 

660 Grape and Apple Jelly 224 

662 Grape and Apple Sauce 225 

682 Jam, Red Tomato 230 

675 Marmalade, Pear and Ginger 228 

680 " , Rhubarb and Fig 230 

679 " , " " Orange 229 

681 " , Three in One 230 

670 Preserved Cranberries 227 

677 Quince Honey 229 

667 Red Currant Conserve 226 

661 Spiced Apple Jelly 225 

689 " Cranberries 227 

676 " Prunes 229 

683 Watermelon Rind, Sweet Pickled 231 

12 Fruit Cocktail 19 

670 '' Cream 199 



INDEX 275 

NO. PAGE 

610 Fruit Sauce 211 

693 '' Sherbet 206 

43 " Soup 30 

431 " Tea Biscuit 156 

696 " Wafers 236 

572 " Whip 200 

Fruits 10 

Frying defined 15 

493 Fudge Cake 175 

633 " Filling 187 

Fuel 13 

Garnishings 12 

Gas 13 

17 Gherkins 21 

453 Giblet Sandwiches 164 

24 Ginger Ale Punch 24 

608 " Apple Cake 180 

609 " Gems 180 

23 " Punch 24 

611 " Sauce 211 

514 '' Wafers 182 

507 Gingerbread, Sour Milk 180 

506 " , with Egg 179 

605 " , without Egg 179 

6 Gloucester Canapes 18 

468 Goldenrod Ham Toast 167 . 

648 Gooseberry Patties 221 

636 " Pie 218 

Government Publications on Food 254 

382 Graham and Com Bread 140 

432 " Biscuit 156 

438 " Popovers 158 

594 Grape Bombe 207 

22 " Eggnog 23 

21 « Juice 23 

662 " " and Apple Sauce 225 

595 " Sherbet 207 

Griddle Cakes 

478 Corn Meal ITO 

479 Dried Crumb 171 

476 Plain I'^O 

481 Raised Buckwheat 171 

480 Rice I'^l 

477 Sour Milk 170 



276 INDEX 

NO. PAOIC 

Grilling defined 15 

Groceries 5 

85 Haddock, Baked StufFed 47 

86 Halibut, Boiled 47 

454 Ham and Cheese Sandwiches 164 

171 " " Potato, Baked 76 

153 " , Baked Sliced 69 

152 " , Broiled 69 

172 " Mousse 76 

221 " Omelet 91 

129 Hamburg Meat Cakes 61 

612 Hard Sauce 211 

173 Hash, Corned Beef, with Beets 76 

116 " , Fish 66 

18 " , Pepper 22 

174 « , Savory, Baked 77 

175 " , Southern 77 

292 " , Vegetable • • 112 

106 Herring, Baked 53 

111 " , Smoked Broiled 54 

196 HoUandaise Sauce 84 

294 Hominy, Steamed 113 

677 Honey, Quince 229 

197 Horseradish Sauce 84 

28 Iced Tea 25 

Ices, See Frozen Deserts 
Icings 

521 Boiled 184 

522 Caramel 184 

523 Chocolate :. 184 

524 Cocoa 185 

525 Coffee 185 

526 Cream 185 

527 Orange 185 

528 Quick 185 

553 Indian Tapioca Pudding 194 

383 Irish Bread 140 

71 Irish Stew with Dumplings 40 

682 Jam, Bed Tomato 230 

333 " Cakes, Fried 125 

433 " Kolls 156 

576 Jellied Prunes and Cranberries 201 



INDEX 277 

NO. PAGE 

Jelly 

560 Banana and Grape 196 

664 Coconut and Orange 198 

669 Coffee and Kice 199 

660 Grape " Apple 224 

661 Spiced Apple 225 

671 " Fruit 200 

603 Jelly Koll, Cake for 178 

596 « Sherbet 207 

60 Julienne Soup 37 

16 Ketchup Tomato 21 

165 Kidneys, Devilled 73 

164 " in Brown Sauce 73 

Kitchen Equipment 12 

73 Lamb Broth with Spaghetti 41 

135 " , Brown Fricassee 63 

136 " , Casserole of 63 

137 " Chops 63 

138 « Cutlets 64 

139 " , Rolled Roast 64 

357 Leek Salad 132 

261 Leeks, Creamed 104 

Left-over Vegetables 8 

637 Lemon Pie 218 

613 « Sauce 211 

488 " Sirup 173 

26 Lemonade, Mint 24 

222 Light Omelet 91 

249 Lima Bean Loaf 101 

38 " " Soup, Dried 28 

163 Liver, Lamb's, and Bacon 73 

160 « , Braised 72 

161 ** , Brown Fricassee 72 

176 « Patties 77 

131 Loaf, Beef 61 

245 " , Celery, Nut, and Potato 98 

154 " , Ham 69 

249 '' , Lima Bean 101 

246 " , Nut 99 

305 " , Rice and Coconut 117 

101 " , Salmon 62 

157 « , Veal, Baked 70 

158 ", ", Boiled 71 



278 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

Macaroni 8 

296 " and Cheese, Scalloped 113 

93 " , Oysters and 49 

517 Macaroons, Oatmeal 182 

618 " Peanut 183 

107 Mackerel, Baked Salt (Spiced) 53 

Marketing 3 

638 Marlborough Pie 218 

675 Marmalade, Pear and Ginger 228 

681 " , Three in One 230 

700 Marrons Glaces .r 237 

534 Marshmallow Filling 187 

455 " Sandwiches ^ 164 

614 " Sauce 212 

515 " Wafers 182 

339 Mayonnaise Dressing 127 

Meals, Planning 1 

Meat 3 

347 " and Potato Salad 129 

320 " Croquettes 121 

Meats 

134 American Chop Suey 62 

171 Baked Ham and Potato 76 

153 " Sliced Ham 69 

130 Beef and Bacon Cakes 61 

131 " Loaf 61 

160 Braised Liver 72 

151 Breakfast Bacon 69 

128 Broiled Chopped Beef 60 

126 " Flank Steak 60 

152 " Ham 69 

140 Brown Fricassee of Fowl 64 

135 " " " Lamb 63 

161 " " " Liver 72 

132 Casserole of Beef 62 

136 " " Lamb 63 

145 " " Rabbit and Okra 67 

162 Chicken Livers and Bacon 72 

142 " Pie 65 

173 Corned Beef Hash with Beets 76 

144 Country Club Rabbit 66 

133 Creamed Dried Beef with Cheese 62 

165 Devilled Kidneys 73 

163 Fried Lamb's Liver and Bacon 73 

164 Ham Loaf 69 



INDEX 279 



•< 



NO. PAGE 

Meats (continue^ 

172 Ham Mousse 76 

129 Hamburg Meat Cakes 61 

137 Lamb Chops 63 

138 " Cutlets 64 

164 Lambs' Kidneys in Brown Sauce 73 

176 Liver Patties 77 

179 Meat Shortcake 79 

178 " Souffle 78 

177 " and Tomato Pie 78 

147 Pork Chops 68 

122 Pot Roast of Beef 68 

159 Potted Head 71 

143 " Pigeons 66 

119 Pressed Beef 57 

120 " Corn Beef 57 

121 Roast Beef 58 

155 *' Breast of Veal 70 

141 « Fowl 65 

146 " Pork 67 

139 Rolled Roast of Lamb 64 

148 Sausage Cakes '. 68 

149 ** '' with Apple 68 

150 " with Oysters and Eggs 68 

169 Savory Beef 75 

174 " Hash (Baked) 77 

170 Scalloped Corned Beef 75 

123 Shin of Beef, Creole Sauce 59 

175 Southern Hash 77 

166 Spanish Tripe 74 

125 Steak, to Broil 59 

127 " , Country Style 60 

124 Stuffed Shin of Beef 59 

167 Tripe Fried in Batter 74 

168 " " " Crumbs 74 

157 Veal Loaf, Baked 70 

158 " " , Boiled 71 

156 " with Vegetables 70 

627 Meringue for Tarts and Pies 216 

628 " , One-Egg 216 

Milk 6 

20 " , Coffee, Egg, and 23 

624 Mince Meat 215 

625 " *' , Mock 215 

626 " • " , Green Tomato 215 



280 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

639 Mince Pie 219 

25 Mint Julep (Ginger Ale) 24 

26 " Lemonade 24 

684 Mint lee Cream 204 

694 " Paste 235 

198 " Sauce 84 

692 Mints, After-dinner 234 

691 Mints, Quick 234 

535 Mocha Filling 187 

615 " Sauce 212 

666 Mock Bar-le-Duc Currants 226 

632 *' Cherry Pie "217 

5 " Crab Canapes 18 

456 " " Sandwiches 164 

552 " Indian Pudding 193 

61 " Turtle Soup 37 

Moist Steaming defined 16 

516 Molasses Brownies 182 

Muffins, Baking Powder 

412 Blueberry 151 

413 Bran 151 

422 Buttermilk 153 

414 Cambridge 151 

415 Cheese 151 

407 Corn 149 

408 " and Kice 149 

416 Cranberry 152 

417 Crumb 152 

418 Date 152 

419 Plain 152 

420 Eye 153 

423 Sally Lunn 153 

421 Sour Milk 153 

Muffins, Yeast 

392 Raised 143 

393 " Corn 144 

394 " Date 144 

395 " Oatmeal 144 

471 Muffins, Stale, to Freshen 168 

557 Mulled Rice 195 

199 Mushroom Sauce 84 

62 " Soup 37 

459 Mustard Butter 165 

200 " Pickle Sauce 85 



^ 



INDEX 281 

NO. PAGE 

19 Nasturtium Seeds, Pickled 22 

297 Noodle Balls (for Soup) 114 

296 " Paste 114 

Noodles 8 

Normal Weights for Men and Women, Table of . . . 253 

401 Nut Bread, Dark 147 

Nuts 

241 Almonds, Salted 97 

245 Celery, Nut, and Potato Loaf 98 

244 Chestnuts, Baked 98 

243 *' , to Shell 98 

246 Loaf 99 

700 Marrons Glaees 237 

701 Nuts and Fruits Glace 237 

242 Peanut Butter 98 

298 Oatmeal, Scotch 114 

384 ** Bread 140 

517 " Macaroons 182 

395 " Muffins, Raised 144 

44 " Soup 30 

484 " Waffles 172 

Oleomargarine 6 

Omelets 

217 Bread 90 

218 Creamy 90 

219 French 90 

220 " Cheese 91 

221 Ham 91 

222 Light 91 

223 Salmon 92 

495 One-Egg Cake 176 

352 Onion Salad 131 

63 Onion Soup 38 

363 " , Spanish, and Tomato Salad 134 

262 Onions in Potato Nests 104 

373 Orange and Cress Salad 136 

496 " Cake 176 

536 " Filling 187 

527 " Icing 185 

616 " Marmalade Sauce 212 

201 « Mint " 85 

640 " Pie 219 

489 « Sirup 173 

585 " Velvet Cream 204 



282 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

79 Oyster Chowder 45 

92 " Pie, Creamed 49 

282 " Plant, Creamed 109 

94 " Shortcake 60 

64 " Stew 38 

65 " and Celery Bouillon 38 

93 Oysters and Macaroni 49 

89 " , Broiled 48 

91 " , Creamed 49 

95 " , Panned 50 

90 " with Brown Sauce 48 

Pan-Baking defined 15 

'' -Broiling " 15 

95 Panned Oysters 60 

389 Parker House KoUs 142 

Pastry 

629 Apple Pie, Sliced 216 

647 Banbury Tarts 221 

630 Blueberry Pie 216 

654 Cheese Straws 223 

655 '' " (Left-over Paste) 223 

656 " Wafers 223 

631 Cherry Pie 217 

632 " " , Mock 217 

657 Cinnamon Hearts 223 

633 Cranberry Pie 217 

634 " " (Open) 217 

635 Custard Pie 218 

648 Gooseberry Patties 221 

636 " Pie 218 

637 Lemon Pie 218 

638 Marlborough Pie 218 

639 Mince Pie 219 

640 Orange " 219 

621 Patty Shells 214 

622 Pie Shell 214 

641 Pineapple Pie 219 

619 Plain Paste 213 

649 Prune and Apple Tart 221 

650 " Patties 222 

642 " Pie 220 

643 Pumpkin Pie 220 

644 Raisin Pie 220 

651 Baspberry Pie (Individual) 222 



^ 


645 


\> 


652 


1'" 


620 


>} 


653 


> 


646 


5? 


623 


^ 


46 


4i 


47 


4^ 


554 


.V 


242 


i) 


518 




457 


15 


211 


15 


374 


&.' 


264 


4i 


263 


» 


358 


iir 


18 


31 


265 


11^ 


586 


23 


14 


23 


19 


33 


17 


1 


142 


23 


97 


i; 


177 


i; 


627 


ij 


92 


21 


622 


1« 


143 


1^ 


376 


15 


375 


1? 


641 


1? 


573 


14 


597 


H 


497 


Q 


419 


13 
)1 


619 




301 


JO 


302 


!(' 


299 


!0 


300 



INDEX 28S 

KO. PAGE 

Pastry (continued) 

Rhubarb Pie 220 

" Meringue Patties 222 

Rich Paste 213 

Squash Patties 222 

« Pig 221 

Tart Shells .!!!!!!!!!.'!.*!'.!!!!!'..'!!.*.'!!!!! 214 

Pea Soup, Cream of 31 

Peas, Puree of Split 31 

Peach Dumplings 194 

Peanut Butter 98 

" Macaroons 183 

" Sandwich Filling 165 

'' Stuffing •.... 87 

Pear Salad 137 

Peas and Lettuce 105 

" , Green 104 

Pepper and Cabbage Salad 132 

" Hash 22 

Peppers, Stuffed Green 105 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 205 

Piccalilli 20 

Pickled Nasturtium Seeds 22 

Pickles, Cucumber 21 

Pie. See Pastry- 
Pie, Chicken 65 

*' , Fish and Potato 50 

" , Meat and Tomato 78 

" , Meringue for 216 

" , Oyster 49 

« Shell 214 

Pigeons, Potted 66 

Pineapple and Cottage Cheese Salad 137 

" , Cheese, and Date Salad 137 

« pjg 219 

'' Pudding *!!!".!.'.!.'!!!!!!.'!!!!!!!!!!!!! 200 

" Sherbet 207 

Plain Cake 176 

« Muffins 152 

" Paste 213 

Planning Meals 1 

Polenta, French Fried 115 

" , Spanish 116 

" with Cheese 115 

" « Dates 116 



284 INDEX 

170. PAGE 

436 Popovers 157 

437 " , Entire Wheat 168 

438 " , Graham 158 

494 Pork Cake 175 

147 " Chops 68 

146 " , Koast 67 

321 Potato and Bean Croquettes 122 

80 " Chowder 45 

269 " Croutons 106 

359 " Salad 132 

45 " Soup 30 

280 " , Sweet, Custard 109 

267 Potatoes, Baked 106 



266 

268 
270 
271 
272 
273 
274 
275 
276 
277 
278 
279 
281 



a 
u 
u 
u 
u 

iC 

u 
u 
it 
tt 
cc 
a 



Boiled 105 

Creamed 106 

French Fried 106 

Hashed Brown 106 

Lyonnaise 107 

Pan-Roasted 107 

Scalloped, with Cheese 107 

" , " Peppers and Cheese 107 

Stuffed, with Cheese and Bacon 108 

Stuffed with Nuts and Bacon 108 

Sweet, French Fried 108 

" , glazed 109 

" , stuffed 109 

Pot-Roasting defined 15 

159 Potted Head 71 

670 Preserved Cranberries 227 

Protein, Chief Uses 1 

'' , " Sources 1 

" , Daily Requirement 1 

445 Prune and Apple Shortcake 161 

649 " " " Tart 221 

575 " " Wheat Mold 201 

537 « Filling 188 

587 " Ice Cream 205 

650 " Patties 222 

642 " Pie 220 

574 " Whip 200 

Publications on Food, List of 254 

542 Pudding, Blackberry 190 

543 " , Blueberry 190 

544 " , Brown Betty 190 

547 '^ , Caramel Toast 191 



INDEX 285 

NO. PAGE 

548 Pudding, Chocolate, Steamed 192 

649 '' , Cottage 192 

545 " , Cranberry, Baked 191 

550 " , Fig, Steamed 192 

551 " , Fruit, " 193 

546 " , Indian, Baked 191 

553 " , " Tapioca 194 

562 '' , Mock Indian 193 

573 " , Pineapple 200 

566 " , Rice, Baked 194 

439 Puffs, Breakfast 158 

643 Pumpkin Pie 220 

24 Punch, Ginger Ale 24 

23 " , " 24 

35 Puree of Black Beans 27 

37 " « Red Kidney Beans 28 

47 « "SplitPeas 31 

628 Quick Icing 185 

677 Quince Honey 229 

145 Rabbit, Casserole of, and Okra 67 

144 '' , Country Club 66 

481 Raised Buckwheat Cakes 171 

393 " Corn Muffins 144 

392 " Muffins 143 

402 Raisin Bread 147 

458 ^* " and Cheese Sandwiches - 165 

519 " Drop Cookies 183 

644 « Pie 220 

239 Rarebit, Tomato 97 

240 " , Welsh 97 

651 Raspberry Pie, Individual 222 

667 Red Currant Conserve 226 

8 Relish, Celery 19 

Relishes, See Appetizers and Relishes 

680 Rhubarb and Fiff Marmadale 230 

679 '' " Orange " 229 

652 '^ Meringue Patties 222 

645 « Pie 220 

Rice 8 

305 " and Coconut Loaf 117 

329 " " Currant Fritters 124 

303 " " Ham, Baked 116 

323 '' " Raisin Croquettes 122 



286 INDEX 

KO. PAGE 

48 Bice and Tomato Soup 31 

237 " Baked, with Cheese 96 

304 « Boiled 116 

322 " Croquettes 122 

480 " Griddle Cakes 171 

577 " Mold 202 

667 ", Mulled 195 

485 " Waffles 172 

620 Bich Paste 213 

9 Bings, Cheese and Apple 19 

306 Bisotto 117 

Boasting defined 16 

204 Boast Goose, Sauce for 85 

204 " Pork, " '' 86 

Bolls, Baking Powder 

426 Bacon Sandwich 154 

425 Com Meal 164 

427 Date 154 

433 Jam 156 

Bolls, Yeast 

389 Parker House 142 

390 Shamrock 143 

471 Stale, to Freshen 168 

391 Swedish Coffee 143 

Boulettes 

538 Apple 189 

447 Cheese 162 

447 Devilled Ham 162 

447 Fruit 162 

447 Marmalade 162 

447 Peanut Butter 162 

396 Baised 145 

447 Baisin and Nut 162 

341 Bussian Dressing 128 

385 Bye Bread 141 

420 " Muffins 153 

Salads 8 

366 Apple and Mint 135 

351 Baked Bean 130 

367 Banana and Apple 135 

368 " " Peanut 135 

369 Bellevue 135 

352 Bermuda Onion 131 

353 Cabbage and Beet 131 



INDEX 287 

wo. PAGE 

Salads (continued) 

354 Cabbage and Cranberry 131 

365 Celery Eoot 131 

346 Chicken 129 

346 Coronado 129 

370 Cream Cheese 136 

371 « " , Frozen 136 

356 Dutch Potato 132 

357 Leek 132 

347 Meat and Potato 129 

373 Orange and Cress 136 

374 Pear 137 

358 Pepper and Cabbage 132 

376 Pineapple, Cheese, and Date 137 

376 '' and Cottage Cheese 137 

359 Potato 132 

348 Salmon 130 

361 Samoset 133 

349 Shrimp 130 

362 Spanish 133 

363 Spanish Onion and Tomato 134 

360 Sweet Potato 133 

364 Tomato Jelly 134 

350 Tuna 130 

365 Vegetable 134 

372 Waldorf, JeUied 136 

Salad Dressings 8 

334 Cooked 126 

335 " , Evaporated Milk 126 

336 Currant Jelly 127 

337 Devilled Ham 127 

338 French 127 

339 Mayonnaise 127 

340 Potato Mayonnaise 128 

343 Quick " 128 

341 Russian 128 

342 Sour Cream 128 

344 Uncooked, Condensed Milk 129 

423 Sally Lunn 153 

102 Salmon and Peas Souffle 52 

324 " " Potato Croquettes 122 

66 « Bisque 39 

81 " Chowder 45 

99 " Creole 51 

100 « Dutch 51 



288 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

330 Salmon Fritters 124 

101 " Loaf 62 

223 " Omelet 92 

348 " Salad 130 

112 " , Smoked Broiled 54 

282 Salsify, Creamed 109 

108 Salt Codfish Baked with Crackers 64 

110 " Fish, Broiled 64 

82 " " Chowder 46 

117 " " Souffle 56 

361 Samoset Salad 133 

307 Samp, Steamed 117 

Sandwiches 

448 Baked Bean and Lettuce 163 

449 Celery and Egg 163 

450 Cheese " Nut 163 

451 " Club 163 

452 Chicken 164 

453 Giblet 164 

454 Ham and Cheese . . .-: 164 

455 Marshmallow 164 

456 Mock Crab 164 

458 Raisin Bread and Cheese 165 

457 Sandwich Filling, Peanut 165 

1 Sauce, Cocktail 17 

Sauces for Desserts 

601 Caramel 209 

602 Chocolate 209 

603 Chocolate Marshmallow 209 

604 Cinnamon 210 

605 Coffee 210 

606 Cranberry 210 

608 Currant Jelly 210 

607 Custard 210 

609 Date 211 

610 Fruit 211 

611 Ginger 211 

612 Hard 211 

613 Lemon 211 

614 Marshmallow 212 

615 Mocha 212 

616 Orange Marmalade 212 

617 Soft 212 

618 Strawberry 212 



INDEX 289 

NO. .PAGE 

Sauces for Fish and Meat 

180 Anchovy 80 

181 Banana : . . 80 

182 Bechamel 80 

183 Black Butter 81 

184 Bread 81 

185 Brown ,. 81 

186 Caper -: 81 

187 Celery 82 

188 Cheese 82 

189 " with Chives 82 

190 Cider 82 

191 Creole 83 

192 Croquette 83 

193 Cucumber 83 

194 Drawn Bi tter 83 

195 Egg 84 

196 Hollandaise 84 

197 Horseradish 84 

198 Mint 84 

199 Mushroom 84 

200 Mustard Pickle 85 

201 Orange Mint 85 

204 for Boast Goose 85 

204 " « Pork 85 

205 Sharp 86 

206 Soubise 86 

15 Table 20 

202 Tartare 85 

203 Tomato 85 

207 White 86 

13 Winter Chili 20 

148 Sausage Cakes 68 

149 " *; Baked with Apple 68 

150 Sausages with Oysters and Eggs 68 

Sauteeing defined 16 

224 Scalloped Eggs with Cheese 92 

238 " Toast and Cheese 97 

103 Scallops, Fried 52 

434 Scones, Potato 157 

435 '' , Scotch 157 

298 Scotch Oatmeal 114 

74 '' Broth 41 

225 Scrambled Eggs with Sausages 93 

226 " " « Tomato 93 



290 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

308 Scrapple, Corn Meal and Beef 117 

309 " , Wheat, and Sausage 118 

578 Sea Moss Blancmange 202 

227 Shirred Eggs 93 

228 " " with Ham 93 

230 " " " Potato and Ham 94 

Shortcakes 

441 Shortcake 160 

442 Apple and Cranberry 160 

443 Banana 161 

444 Date and Apple 161 

179 Meat 79 

94 Oyster 60 

445 Prune and Apple 161 

446 Strawberry 161 

Shortening 5 

386 Shredded Wheat Bread 141 

349 Shrimp Salad 130 

104 Shrimps and Eice, Louisiana 53 

Simmering defined 16 

Sirups 

486 Brown Sugar 172 

487 Cider 173 

488 Lemon 173 

489 Orange 173 

629 Sliced Apple Pie 216 

568 Soft Custard 199 

617 " Sauce 212 

598 Somerset' Sherbet 208 

206 Soubise Sauce 86 

178 Souffle, Meat 78 

102 " , Salmon and Peas 52 

229 Souffleed Egg with Ham Toast 94 

Soups without Meat 

34 Asparagus 27 

36 Baked Bean 28 

35 Black Bean 27 

39 Cauliflower 28 

42 Cheese 29 

40 Cream of Celery 29 

41 " " Corn 29 

46 " " Pea 31 

38 Dried Lima Bean 28 

43 Fruit 30 

44 Oatmeal 30 



INDEX 291 

Na PAGE 

Soups without Meat (continued) 

45 Potato 30 

47 Pur^e of Split Peas 31 

37 Red Kidney Bean 28 

48 Eiee and Tomato 31 

50 Tomato Bouillon 32 

49 ** Bisque 32 

51 " and Oatmeal 33 

52 " " Peanut 33 

54 Vegetable 34 

53 Windsor 33 

Soups and Stews with Meat or Fish 

70 Beef Stew 40 

56 Chicken and Okra 35 

57 Clam Bisque 36 

58 " Bouillon 36 

59 Clear 36 

55 Cream of Chicken 35 

71 Irish Stew with Dumplings 40 

60 Julienne 37 

73 Lamb Broth with Spaghetti 41 

61 Mock Turtle 37 

62 Mushroom < 37 

63 Onion 38 

65 Oyster and Celery Bouillon 38 

64 Oyster Stew 38 

66 Salmon Bisque 39 

74 Scotch Broth 41 

67 Soup Stock 39 

68 Tomato Tapioca 39 

69 Tuna 40 

342 Sour Cream Dressing 128 

507 « Milk Gingerbread 180 

477 " Milk Griddle Cakes 170 

421 « *< Muffins 153 

254 Southern Corn Pudding 102 

310 Spaghetti and Ham, Baked 118 

311 " , Creole 118 

312 " , Italian 119 

10 Spanish Cheese 19 

302 " Polenta 116 

362 " Salad 133 

498 Spice Cake 177 

669 Spiced Cranberries 227 

671 '* Fruit Jelly 200 



292 INDEX 

NO. PA61E 

676 Spiced Prunes 229 

697 ** Raisins 236 

283 Spinach 110 

500 Sponge Cake 117 

501 « " , Velvet 178 

284 Squash, Baked Winter 110 

653 " Patties 222 

646 " Pie 221 

471 Stale Bread, to Freshen 168 

125 Steak, to Broil 59 

Steaming defined 16 

548 Steamed Chocolate Pudding 192 

550 " Fig " 192 

651 " Fruit " 193 

Stewing defined 16 

Stock Pot 4 

588 Strawberry Ice Cream 205 

618 " Sauce 212 

599 " Sherbet 208 

446 " Shortcake 161 

698 Stuffed Dates 236 

699 " Prunes 236 

Stuffings 

208 Bread 86 

209 Crust 87 

210 Fish 87 

211 Peanut 87 

285 Succotash 110 

469 Sunday Toast 167 

360 Sweet Potato Salad 133 

15 Table Sauce 20 

202 Tartare Sauce 85 

647 Tarts, Banbury 221 

627 " , Meringue for 216 

623 " Shells 214 

27 Tea 25 

28 " , Iced 25 

Temperatures for Cooking, Table of 243 

98 Timbales, Fish 51 

Toasts 

460 Brewis 165 

461 Brown Bread 165 

462 Celery 166 

465 Cheese 167 



INDEX itgs 

no'. page 

Toasts (continued) 

466 Cinnamon 167 

463 Cream 166 

464 " , Sauce for 166 

475 Crisp Sticks 169 

473 Croustades , 168 

474 Croutons 169 

467 French 167 

468 Goldenrod Ham 167 

469 Sunday 167 

470 Tomato Cream, with Egg 168 

51 Tomato and Oatmeal Soup 33 

52 " " Peanut " 33 

49 " Bisque 32 

60 « Bouillon 32 

470 Tomato Cream Toast with Egg 168 

287 " Custard Ill 

364 " Jelly Salad 134 

16 " Ketchup 21 

48 " , Rice and. Soup 31 

203 " Sauce 85 

68 " Tapioca Soup 39 

286 Tomatoes, Baked Ill 

288 " , Fried Green Ill 

289 " , Stewed Ill 

290 " , Stuffed 112 

167 Tripe Fried in Batter 74 

168 " " " Crumbs 74 

166 " , Spanish 74 

7 Tuna Canapes 18 

350 '' Salad 130 

69 " Soup 40 

695 Turkish Delight 235 

291 Turnips, Creamed 112 

Utensils, Kitchen 12 

589 Vanilla Ice Cream 205 

157 Veal Loaf (Baked) 70 

158 '' « (Boiled) 71 

155 " , Roast Breast, Stuffed 70 

156 " with Vegetables 70 

83 Vegetable Chowder 46 

365 " Salad 134 

54 " Soup 34 



294 INDEX 

NO. PAGE 

Vegetables 

247 Baked Beans 100 

250 « Cabbage 101 

248 Beans, Thick Puree of Black 100 

252 Braised Celery 102 

251 Cabbage Cooked in Milk 101 

256 Carrots Sauteed 103 

257 " Vinaigrette 103 

254 Com Pudding 102 

253 Creamed Celery, Boot 102 

255 Cucumbers Sauteed 103 

258 Egg Plant, Baked 103 

259 « " , Fried 103 

260 " " Julienne 104 

292 Hash 112 

261 Leeks, Creamed 104 

249 Lima Bean Loaf 101 

262 Onions in Potato Nests 104 

282 Oyster Plant, Creamed 109 

263 Peas, Green 104 

264 " and Lettuce 105 

265 Peppers, Stuffed Green 105 

267 Potatoes, Baked 106 

266 " , Boiled 105 

268 " , Creamed 106 

270 " , French Fried 106 

271 " , Hashed Brown 106 

272 " , Lyonnaise 107 

273 " , Pan-Roasted 107 

274 " , Scalloped, with Cheese 107 

276 " , " " Peppers and Cheese 107 

276 " , Stuffed, *< Cheese " Bacon 108 

277 « , " , Nuts " Cheese 108 

279 « , Sweet, glazed 109 

278 " , « , French Fried 108 

281 " , " , Stuffed 109 

269 Potato Croutons 106 

280 " , Sweet, Custard 109 

282 Salsify, Creamed 109 

283 Spinach 110 

284 Squash, Baked Winter 110 

285 Succotash 110 

287 Tomato Custard Ill 

286 Tomatoes, Baked Ill 

288 " . Fried Green Ill 



INDEX 295 

VO. PAGE 

Vegetables (continued) 

289 Tomatoes, Stewed Ill 

290 " , Stuffed 112 

291 Turnips, Creamed 112 

V^^bles, Canned 8 

« , Dried 8 

*' , Fresh 8 

" , Left-over 8 

482 Waffles 172 

483 " , Com Meal 172 

484 " , Oatmeal 172 

486 " , Rice 172 

372 Waldorf Salad, Jellied 136 

520 Walnut Wafers 183 

600 Watermelon, Frozen 208 

683 " Rind, Sweet Pickled 231 

Weights and Measures, Table of 239 

240 Welsh Rarebit 97 

309 Wheat and Sausage Scrapple 118 

377 White Bread 138 

499 " Cake 177 

207 « Sauce 86 

63 Winsor Soup 33 

13 Winter Chili Sauce 20 



I 



/>-/" Uy<^ 



. 




fr**' 






"■ V 



H^de in Italy 




