
Class 

Book ^3— 

Copyright^ - 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 






CAMPS 

BILLETS 

COOKING 

AMERICAN EDITION 

SANITATION 
ORGANIZATION 
ROUTINE 
GUARD DUTIES 
INSPECTIONS 
CEREMONIAL 
BIVOUACS 

By an Officer of the British Army 
Edited by 

CAPTAIN E. J. SOLANO \ . . 

Published by 

GEORGE U. HARVEY, Inc. 
109 Lafayette Street New York 

Price, $1.00 

HARVEY MILITARY SERIES 



ENGLISH RIGHTS OWNED BY 
JOHN MURRAY, LONDON, ENG. 



AMERICAN RIGHTS OWNED BY 
GEORGE U. HARVEY, Inc., NEW YORK 



BOOK PRINTED FROM TYPE AND 
PLATES MADE IN THE UNITED STATES 



Copyright 1917 
By GEORGE U. HARVEY, Inc. 



NOV -2 1917 
©CI.A476999 



^ 



Printed by THE HARVEY PRESS, Inc. 
109 LAFAYETTE STREET NEW YORK CITY 



Preface 

This American edition of Camps, Billets and Cooking gives 
our Army men an idea of the British organization on these 
subjects. It will be noted that the British system is conducted 
on a different plan from American camps and cantonments. 
For instance, the cadet camps in England, comparable to our 
Officers' Training Camps, provide for small numbers — a com- 
pany, or, at most, a battalion, while our new officers have been 
trained in large numbers in the various camps. It is the 
experience of the British Army leaders that the smaller the 
cadet camp the better can intensive training be accomplished. 

After the new officers are qualified to take command they 
are moved to other small camps and watched and guided 
while they drill the recruits. Then the unit is moved to France 
where the last intensive touches are given. 

The system of Billeting as in practice in Europe, is entirely 
new to our Army men, and it carries problems that must be 
studied. While the British Army leaders have learned that 
the American system of camps is superior to billeting, it is 
certain that many of our troops will undergo their first ex- 
perience of living in houses of private families. In fact, many 
of the first troops sent over are now being billeted. Our army 



leaders with the troops are frank in condemning this system, 
but find that there are cirucmstances which make it necessary 
to quarter the men in billets. 

•■*. 
The training in France is a necessary^jxreparation for ser- 
vice in the trenches and at the front, anil it is of the most 
intense description. Said Gen. Pershing, the American Com- 
mander at the front, recently: 

"The American troops, in order to be able to cope with the 
enemy on the battlefields of Europe, must be disciplined, 
physically and mentally, to the fine point where they can take 
their place in so delicately balanced a machine as a modern 
army. 

"I can suggest no more easily understandable parallel than 
by comparing the training of a soldier with that of a football 
player in one of the great American colleges. In the first 
place, his perfect physical condition is sought as the primary 
requisite and he is kept fit through control of his food, exercise 
and rest. His hours of relaxation are supervised and the 
proper proportion of physical work, study, sleep and recrea- 
tion is fixed. 

"Secondly, he is taught the rules of the game. The strategy 



of team play as well as the value of individual initiative are 
hammered into him. Thirdly, he is drilled in playing the 
game. 

"The soldier must go through similar training. He must ,be 
healthy and taught how to keep his health, trained to be alert 
and soldierly, with quick attention and implicit obedience to 
commands given him. His sense of responsibility and his 
initiative should be developed, for there will be occasions when 
the man in the ranks will find all the officers wiped out and 
that he must direct the actions of his comrades. Here is 
where discipline and training will tell, for if a soldier has been 
taught the imperative necessity of carrying out orders he will 
feel himself equal to giving them. 

"Our men must be 'standardized,' but that does not mean 
that they will be automatic machines. Their minds must work 
as well as their bodies, and this will be accomplished by our 
men, but we must start at the foundation to build up the 
edifice of our Army. 

"This fact is not so widely understood at home, I believe, as 
it ought to be. We did not expect that our soldiers might be 
called to participate in the great European work, and the result 
is that our training lacked the thoroughness and finish essential 
to intelligent cohesion in action. 



"To supply this is the work of the training camp, where also 
must be taught the theory and practice of the war game as 
played by the great armies now at battle grips. The realization 
at home of the vital importance of rigid discipline will reduce 
the labor to be done here, while appreciation by the men of the 
necessity of keeping in perfect physical condition will be of the 
greatest benefit to them as well as to the army as a whole. 
They must keep clean morally also and avoid the temptations 
to which they are exposed when on foreign service." 

This book will be found extremely valuable to American 
Army officers in the work of preparing men for the battlef ront ; 
it should be studied, as well as are other British Army books 
of this series, in order to hasten the time in fitting men for the 
new and terrible experiences in France. The conscientious 
commander, from the major general down to the captain, will 
take advantage of the British experience, as given in the 
Harvey Military Series. He will gain the credit of having 
his men ready and fit before the commands of others who are 
too backward to include intensive training in their commands 
until shown by others in France. 

W. H. Waldron, 

Camp Lee, Aug. 28, 1917. Lieut. Col., U. S. Inf. 



CAMPS, BILLETS 
and COOKING 

PART I 

INSPECTION— SENTRY AND GUARD DUTIES 
CHAPTER I 

Section 1. — General Introduction. 

1. Fighting Experience. — The British Army officers and 
men have gained more actual fighting experience in three years 
than the history of the Army reveals in the last 500 years. 
The methods used in 1914, when the first expedition went to 
France under Gen. Sir John French, are as obsolete now as 
the bow-gun would have been a dozen years ago. The tactics 
of yesterday must be given over for the improved methods 
of today. If a General or Colonel gets leave to visit home 
for a week he finds upon rejoining his command that a lot 
of things have transpired which necessitates a change in his 
methods. Knowledge in military tactics piles up over night. 
The rapidity of changes in what was once considered clever 
tactics is fairly startling. No one can appreciate these except 
the man on the spot. The military expert, visiting the battle 
line for the first time, is appalled by the science displayed in 
winning battles ; he is astounded beyond any method of ex- 
pression in language at the intensity of massed batteries in 



8 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

action ; at the methodical movement of huge bodies of troops, 
coordinated by some mysterious commands never heard ; at 
the concerted action of men in charges and apparently without 
guidance ; at the panorama of moving troops, some going to 
the front and others returning all tired out ; at the continuous 
lines of motor trucks, ambulances and huge guns. 

2. The observer wonders how all this can be controlled, 
but it is, for there is no sense of confusion and every man 
seems to know just what to do, and he is doing it with might 
and main. The military expert of former days soon makes up 
his mind that he would not do now even as a sub-lieutenant, 
for the organization and machinery of this year is so different 
from his training that he is lost completely. All previous 
training and preconceived notions seem to be of no use or 
value to the modern army, and, indeed, they are not, for all 
the military science of the ages has given way under the keen 
competition of a multitude of brains in meeting the experi- 
ence of the present day. 

3. While the new troops get their severest training 
"back of the line," and while this is as intensive as 
it is possible to make it, the recruits get to the trenches only 
to find that they must learn from actual experience, just as 
their comrades have done. The Germans try new tricks daily 
and the Allies also are inventing new ways of attack and 
defence every hour, so that a man sent back for a day's rest 
has to be posted when he finds his place in the trenches. 

4. It is a marvel still to the initiated how the British 
Army maintained its place in the line of defence during the 
early months of the war without being driven into the sea; 
to say nothing of the greater marvel of conducting a vigorous 
and strikingly successful offensive against an enemy which 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 9 

started in with all the military science of the ages drilled into 
its army. The Germans were the teachers at the beginning, 
for they had every detail as near perfect as possible, but they 
have found that their pupils have outstripped them, and are 
now the masters. 

5. Careful Ground-work. — This being recognized by the 
world it is worth while to study the methods of organization 
and machinery which has been responsible for this great pro- 
gress in military science. That there must have been a good 
organization at the start seems to have been proven by the 
results. Even though the Army at the opening of the war 
was small and had no incentive to perfect itself in the science 
of modern warfare, the ground work was there for expansion 
and the methods were adaptable for the gradual increase in 
efficiency. This race for perfection is going on day by day 
as experience shows the way. 

6. It has been the criticism of some famous soldiers 
that the privates and minor officers of the British Army were 
not taught to show initiative or to bear responsibility. Pro- 
bably these critics would be astounded now to see the change 
that terrific campaigns have brought about. The junior subs 
and the non-commissioned officers have come into their own. 
They have learned war lessons as fast as commanding officers, 
and now are the wisest men in the line. These young men 
and grizzled veterans have made places for themselves which 
has fairly amazed their superiors. The junior subs, most of 
them, started at the bottom of the army system and have gone 
through the entire training with an enthusiasm and thorough- 
ness that have carried them to the trenches especially well 
equipped to command. This speaks volumes for the camp 
training system as now perfected. 



1 

( 



10 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

Section 2. — Army Camps. 

1. General Principles. — The British Army has always 
taken pride in its camp system, but the old officers never would 
know the present methods, so different are they from those 
formerly in use. Not that the general principles are different, 
for the new system was built up upon the well-grounded 
standards of the old, but experience has taught as much in 
caring for the men in camp as in showing them how to fight 
under modern conditions. The experience of the first few 
dark months taught that the men for the firing line must 
have intensive training and be a unit in discipline. The first 
training camps established in England did not measure up 
to the standard of the present camps in this respect. Haste 
was the watchword then, while now 1 , it is thoroughness. It is 
a military axiom that the success of an army depends upon 
spirit and discipline. To develop the former the training 
must be along the lines of bringing out the latent keenness 
of the men. A body of men trained to bring out initiative, 
keen perception and agility of mind and body will shine 
wherever put. Quickness is one of the most valuable assets 
of a soldier. 

2. Care in Selecting Camps. — Training camps are now 
chosen with great care. They are vast areas where there will 
be plenty of room for all the activities which stimulate actual 
conditions in the field. New camp sites are chosen rather 
than continuation of old camps, for sanitation is as important 
to an army as rifles. The routine is so arranged as not to 
sicken the men of drudgery, but to keep them constantly 
occupied with new duties and new lessons. The primary 
course of training is guard duty, for this has not changed in 
principle for centuries. It is as important now to guard 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 11 

against surprise as ever it was, and the ingenuity of the 
enemy is ever being exercised. The guarding against irregu- 
larities in the camps may have as beneficial effect as the alarm 
of a gas cloud. This guard training teaches discipline as 
nothing else in the camps. 

Section 3.— Billets. 

1. Training for Billets. — Quarters take the form of 
billets, close billets, bivouacs and camps. The former are 
peculiar to Continental armies, and it has been found that the 
regulations and restrictions for billeting must be taught with 
thoroughness and with stern descipline. There are many dis- 
advantages in billeting, such as inconvenience, lack of proper 
sanitation, inconveniencing the house owners and separation 
of the men and consequent loss of discipline. To overcome 
all these disadvantages it is necessary to have the recruits in 
a proper frame of training or discipline will fly to the winds. 

2. How They Are Chosen. — Life in billets in the field 
is a continuous struggle against insanitation and lack of 
morale. The billets may be a palace, hut or barn, and the 
officer in charge of billeting the men is, temporarily, the most 
hated man in the organization. The billeting party usually 
is an officer from each battalion and a company quartermaster 
sergeant. They have to find quarters for four companies, 
headquarters and its various details, for the transport and the 
quartermaster stores. All this must be provided for in a given 
area, and the troubles of the party may be imagined. Only 
hasty inspection can be made of the sanitary features and 
here is where trouble usually begins. When the officers are 
provided for, the men must take such accommodations as 
remain, and they are lucky if they have new, clean straw to 
sleep on under cover. 



( 



12 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

3. Diplomacy Needed. — It has been the experience that 
the French house holders are always willing to provide the 
best they have, if their confidence has not been misplaced by 
some organization which has partaken of their hospitalities. 
Diplomacy is the chief requirement of the billeting officers. 
The difficulties of the language must be overcome and the 
natural disinclination of the house owners to having a troop 
of men foraging over the garden and orchards. Here is where 
the discipline so patiently taught in the training camps shows 
whether it has been in vain. 

4. Work to be Done. — These so-called "rest camps" 
may prove to be a misnoma, for oftentimes there is a deal 
of hard work to be done if the stay is to be long. Latrines 
must be dug and arranged with the greatest care by the sani- 
tary officers. The cook-house must be provided, and the grease 
pit dug, the surroundings of the houses cleaned up, and ofttimes 
the village streets. The stores must be handy to the cook- 
house ; the transport be accessible and the whole battalion 
must be under such discipline as to make it possible for the 
men to move within an hour's notice. All this entails a grasp 
of details which keep the commander and his men keyed up 
every hour in the day. Bounds for the men are fixed and 
other restrictions ordered to keep the men in hand. Guard 
duty is most important. If the billet is within 10 miles of the 
trenches there is danger of shelling and gas. There always 
is danger from fire and the guards must see that stringent 
orders against smoking in houses or barns where there is 
danger are obeyed. The alarm post is a necessary detail and 
the command must be always ready to "stand by" at a minute's 
notice to fight. To this end the equipment must be in such 
shape that it can be gathered quickly, packed and quarters 
cleaned tip. ! 1 ! ! li'Ttj'T 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 13 

5. Cleaning Up. — It may be wondered how billets can 
be left scrupulously clean after a long occupation when the 
order to "stand-by" comes. This training is necessary and a 
good battalion is known by the way it leaves its billets. It 
may have only a few minutes to do it, but the billets should 
remain just as they were fountl upon occupation, with papers, 
tin cans and all other evidences of occupation completely 
obliterated, and with the latrines filled. This is one thing 
the campaign has taught. 

6. Inculcate Pride. — Life in the billets is not one of rest, 
for drills must occupy all the morning and part of the after- 
noon, and there are duties which make the day one of hard 
labor. Yet a part of the day should be set apart for recrea- 
tion and rest for the men. The restrictions upon this part of 
the day usually rests with the commander. If the men are to 
be trusted they may have extensive liberty to roam over the 
country or indulge in any form of amusement that will not 
inconvenience the natives. Pride in the organization, if 
grounded in the minds of the men, will do more to make 
the stay of a battalion welcome than any amount of disciplinary 
measures the commander may inaugurate. When it is pointed 
out to the men that a bad name in billeting will follow the 
organization all over France it will have the effect of keeping 
the men in restraint. 

7. Caring for Men. — The medical officer has an enorm- 
ous amount of work to perform in billets, for he must test 
all the water in wells or other sources of supply and must see 
that the food bought locally is fit for the men. Ponds for 
washing and bathing should be marked and allocated. There 
should be constant inspection of quarters to see that cleanly 
conditions prevail. 






14 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

8. Guarding Against Spies. — In billeting in a village it 
may be necessary for the commander to take over the govern- 
ing of the place, which he must do with much diplomacy. He 
will have the streets patrolled and may prohibit the leaving 
of homes by the occupants after dark and may restrict the 
movement of the villagers in the day light hours, for there 
is no other way to guard against the disseminating of informa- 
tion to the enemy. The movements of military bodies and all 
military information should be kept secret, and the men should 
be prohibited from talking on any subject pertaining to their 
commands. Courts should be established to deal with infrac- 
tions of rules on the part of the inhabitants.' 

9. Intensive Training. — There may or may not be in- 
tensive training in preparation for the trenches. If the bat- 
talion is composed of recruits it is more than probable that 
seasoned men will be provided to instruct the command in all 
the arts of trench life and warfare. In that case it will be 
a busy few weeks for the recruits, for all kinds of trenches 
will have to be dug, entanglements rigged, instruction given 
in bombing and mortar work, manning the machine guns, 
throwing grenades, practice with gas masks, sniping and all 
the tricks that have been found in the enemy's long list of 
accomplishments. This will occupy from three to seven weeks, 
depending upon the excellence of the instructors and the 
adaptability of the men. It makes no difference if the men 
have had previous training in all these fine points of the war- 
fare of the present, for the seasoned men from the trenches 
will be sure to have a bag of new tricks which will surprise 
the command. 

10. Seasoning the Men. — There must be courses in 
sanitation and First Aid, care of health and what to do and 
how to do it for a hundred different things that the instructors 



back home never thought of. The work will be so severe 
that the men will become seasoned on top of the seasoning 
which the instructors in the home camps thought would fit 
the men for any kind of arduous work. The men must be 
accustomed to heavy fire of artillery and the splitting crack 
of the light guns and automatics. They must be introduced 
to some of the sights and clamor of the firing line, so that 
they will not wilt at the first attack on the trench they are 
to take over. The officers must be instructed how to act when 
the fury of battle drives orders out of their head, or when 
orders are not forthcoming. The days will not be long enough 
to absorb all the details of this intensive training, but if the 
ground work has been well laid, and it is well nigh perfect 
now in England, it will surprise the seasoned instructors how 
fast the men will pick up the details. This sort of work has 
revealed a new characteristic of the British soldier — the keen- 
ness and quickness with which he can adapt himself to circum- 
stances. Veterans never thought to see the day when a 
recruit could be made fit for the trenches with less than three 
months' training. 

11. Camps and Bivouacs. — There are many points 
covered for the life in billets which apply to camps and 
bivouacs, but the problems of the latter are more simple and 
much easier to handle. There is extra work in setting up tents 
in temoprary camps, but there are many advantages of this 
sort of quarters over billeting. If the site is carefully chosen 
on dry, hard, sloping ground, with safe water in abundance, 
there is sure to be more satisfaction and more comfort than 
in any form except a permanent one in barracks. 

Section 4. — Camp Organization. 
1. General Rules. — The same general rules apply to 



large and small units. Regular camps or billets are preferable 
for cadets or for seasoned men. It has been learned that 
camps for small units are preferable, either in England or 
behind the line in France. The smallest unit should be the 
company and, unless under exceptional circumstances, the 
largest unit should be the regiment. Each company must have 
enough ground to train the men properly, and there should be 
no congestion. The problems of water supply, transport and 
food makes the smaller unit more desirable. Sites for cadet 
camps do not involve the matter of defence or providing for 
large numbers of animals, transport, artillery parks and the 
like, while the sanitary, food and water problems are simple 
of solution. A good site would be open, rough ground, with 
clumps of trees about the camp site, plenty of terrain for field 
work and a rifle range, with no cultivated ground to damage. 
If there is running water for bathing and a small village near 
by so much the better. The company camps should be grouped 
in a territory so that the headquarters can be easily accessible 
to all parts of the unit by good roads. If the site is in a 
farming community it will be to the advantage of the farmers 
as well as the soldiers, ior a supply of fresh vegetables, etc., 
would be profitable to the one and pleasing to the other. If 
cadets are billeted more time can be given to instruction as 
the men will be relieved from a lot of fatigue duty. On the 
other hand it is necessary to teach camp duties at some time, 
and it might be well started at the opening of camp. As 
discipline is the prime requisite for raw recruits it will be 
found that this can be taught and instilled better in camps. 
As the men are developed they will learn organization, re- 
sourcefulness, initiative and how to take care of themselves 
in camps which will stand them in good stead in the field. 
All camp and personal equipmment should be reduced to a 



minimum. Severe restrictions should prevail on bounds for 
cadet camps, for it will not do to have undisciplined men 
wander about at will. After the men are real soldiers they 
can have more liberty in this respect. Punishments must rest 
with the commanding officer, but should not be severe except 
in serious cases warranting dismissal from the service. In 
such small camps it is a serious matter to take care of the 
sick, as medical officers cannot be supplied and the commander 
must depend upon his judgment in calling in a local doctor. 
It will be seen that the commander has an added duty to 
insure the health of the cadets. He must guard against over- 
fatigue and exposure until the men are innured. Sec. 26 on 
Training and Recreation should be carefully carried out, for 
it is highly important. This section has been written after 
long and costly experience. 

2. Starting the Camp. — In Cadet camps the secretary 
does the preliminary work of getting the equipment and stores 
to the site. He is followed by the quartermaster, who pre- 
ceeds the cadets and takes over the stores, plans the camp 
and has it in readiness for the cadets upon arrival. Full 
directions are given in Sees. 28 and 29. The transport officer 
has his duties outlined and he must have everything in readi- 
ness when the commander gives the word to proceed to camp. 
The procedure for return of equipment is given in Sec. 33 
upon the breaking of camp. A well planned and efficient 
scheme of routine has been planned, after the last three years 
of experience, and commanders are expected to follow this 
as closely as possible. Every hour must account for results 
and unless the plan is followed it will throw back the pre- 
viously arranged schedule of the army heads. Several sections 
are given over to routine, and the plans will be found effective. 



Section 5.— Ceremonial. 

1. Importance of Ceremonial.— The subject of cere- 
monial should be taught according to the amendments to the 
Manual of Ceremonial. The accompanying illustrations, Fig. 
1-5, shows the movements of Drawing the Sword. Fig. 6-9 
show the Officers' Salute. Fig. 10 shows a Company March- 
ing Past. Fig. 11 shows a Battalion in Line. Fig. 12 shows a 
Battalion in Close Column of Companies. 

2. The Company Formation. — On ceremonial parades 
the four platoons of a company will not be kept intact as 
distinct units, but the men of the whole company (including 
section commanders below the rank of sergeants and signal- 
lers) will be formed in two ranks, regardless of the platoons 
to which they belong, the tallest being on the flanks, and the 
shortest in the centre. This is termed sizing the company. 
When the company has been sized, it will be numbered from 
right to left ; it will then ,be told off into platoons, which will 
be numbered from 1 to 4 within each company, and not from 
1 to 16 throughout the battalion, as is normally the case. 

3. Sizing a Company. — The whole will break off and 
arrange themselves in single rank according to their size, the 
tallest on the right and the shortest on the left, carrying their 
rifles at the short trail, and will take up their dressing by 
the right. 

Number. — From right to left of the whole company. 

Slope — Arms. Odd Numbers One Pace Forward. Even 
Numbers One Pace Step Back — March. — The odd numbers 
wil take one pace forward, and the even numbers will step 
back one pace. 

No. 1 Stand Fast. Ranks Right and Left— Turn.— The 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 19 

odd numbers, with the exception of No. 1, will turn to the 
right, the even numbers to the left. 

Form Company. Quick — March. — The whole will step 
off, the even numbers wheeling round to the right and fol- 
lowing the left-hand men of the odd numbers. No. 3 will 
form up two paces in rear of No. 1 ; No. 5 on the left of 
No. 1 ; No. 7 in rear of No. 5 ; No. 9 on the left of No. 5 ; 
and so on. The leading men of the even numbers will always 
form in the rear rank, and the next man in the front rank. 
As the men arrive in their places, they will turn to the left, 
order arms, and take up their dressing. 

Note. — If space is limited, a company may be sized in two 
ranks, tallest on the flanks, shortest in the centre. 

4. Telling off or Proving a Company. — (i) A company 
will be told off into platoons by calling out the numbers of the 
left-hand men of platoons. When the number of files is not 
divisible by four, the outer platoons should be the stronger. 
The method is made clear by the following commands and 
directions. These are based on the assumption that there are 
42 men in the front rank (i. e., 42 files), but the same system 
holds good whatever the strength of the company may be. 

(i) Company — Number. — The company will number off 
from right to left. 

(ii) Eleven. — No. 11 of the front rank will prove by ex- 
tending his left forearm horizontally, elbow close to the side. 

(iii) Left of No. 1 Platoon. — No. 11 will drop his arm 
to the side. 

(iv) Twenty-One— No. 21 of the front rank will prove in 
the same way as No. 11. 

(v) Left of No. 2 Platoon.— No. 21 will drop his arm to 
the side. 



20 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

(vi) Thirty-One. (vii) Left of No. 3 Platoon. ) 

(viii) Forty-Two.(ix) Left of No. 4 Platoon. J As above 

(ii) The company commander will then see that the men 

know their numbers and the platoons to which they belong 

by forming fours and such other preliminary tests as he may 

consider desirable. 

5. Position of Officers and N. C. O/s in Line. — The 
company commander, who will not be mounted on ceremonial 
parades, will be ten paces, the officer second in command 
three paces, in front of the centre of the company. Platoon 
commanders, when officers, will be three paces in front of 
the centre of their platoons. If there are less than four of- 
ficers commanding platoons, the officer second in command 
and the platoon commanders will divide the company frontage 
equally between them. The company sergeant-major and 
company quartermaster-sergeant will be respectively on the 
right and left flanks of the front rank, acting jas .guides. 
Sergeants, whether temporarily commanding platoons or not, 
will be two paces in rear of the company at equal intervals 
apart, forming what is termed the supernumerary rank. All 
other N. C. O.'s will be in the ranks. 

6. Marching on the Color. — (i) The company being 
drawn up in line, the company commander gives the order: 
Nos. 1 and 2 platoons three paces right close; Nos. 3 and 4 
platoons three paces left close — march. A space for the color 
party is thus left in the centre of the company. 

(ii) The color party, having received the color at the place 
where it is kept, marches to the parade-ground, and halts at 
some distance from the company. The company commander 
then gives the order March on the color, when the color party 
will take up its position in the centre of the company, level 
with the front rank, the color being held at the carry. When 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 21 

marching to its position, the color party will advance towards 
the front of the company or along the front of the front 
rank; it will never move into place from the rear of the com- 
pany. 

(iii) When the color party approaches the company, the 
company commander will give the orders Slope arms and 
Present arms. When the color party is in position, he will 
order the company to slope arms, and, if the company is to 
be inspected by a reviewing officer, he will order arms and 
await his approach. 

7. Battalion Formation. — For ceremonial parades all 
companies will be made as nearly as possible of equal strength. 
Figs. 11 and 12 show a normal four-company battalion in line. 
Distances are given in paces. The battalion commander will 
be 15 paces in front of centre of line. The senior major will 
be 10 paces in front of the right guide; the adjutant 10 paces 
in front of the left guide. The companies are 12 paces apart 
in close column. The senior major will be on the right flank, 
three paces from the first and second companies, and the 
adjutant behind between the third and fourth companies. 
Company commanders will be three paces from the left flank; 
second officers three paces in front of centre; platoon com- 
manders three paces in front of the centre of platoons. 

8. Marching past by Companies. — (i) Points having 
been placed as described the battalion will first change from 
line into close column of companies in rear of the right-hand 
company (No. 1). 

Slope — Arms. On the Right form Close Column of 
Companies. Remainder, Form— Fours. Right. Quick- 
March. — The whole line will slope arms. All but the right- 
hand company (No. 1), which wil 1 stand fast, will then form 



22 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

fours, turn to the right, and move into the formation of close 
column of companies in rear of the original right-hand com- 
pany (No. 1). 

(ii) The battalion will then be moved into position on the 
saluting base. 

Move to the Right in Fours. Form — Fours. Right. No. 
1 will direct. Quick — March. — The whole will form fours, 
turn to the right, and march towards the first point, the left 
of the original right-hand company (No. 1) being directed 
on that point. 

Change Direction Left. Left— Wheel. Forward by the 
Left.— On the command Left wheel, which will be given 
when the battalion reaches the first point, a left wheel will 
be made, the battalion moving forward on the command For- 
ward as soon as the change is completed. 

Halt. Left— Turn. Battalion Right— Dress.— On the 

command Halt, which will be given when the batttalion reaches 
the saluting base, the right guides will turn about and be 
covered by the adjutant, who will give the command Steady. 
On the word Steady the right guides will turn about, and the 
right-hand man of the front rank of each company will im- 
mediately correct his dressing by the right guide. On the 
command Right — dress, the right guides will dress their com- 
panies and give the command Eyes — front. 
(iii) The march past will then commence. 

March Past by Companies by the Right. — The com- 
mander of No. 1 will give the command, No. 1, By the right, 
quick — march, the remaining companies following in succession 
at forty paces' distance or as ordered. 

9. Position of Officers when marching past by Com- 
panies. — The battalion commander will be fifteen paces in 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 23 

front of No. 2 platoon of the leading company, the senior 
major in front of No. 3 platoon, in line with the battalion com- 
mander. The adjutant will follow ten paces behind the centre 
of the rear company. Company officers will be in the position 
laid down. 

10. Officers' Salute when marching past by Com- 
panies. — Mounted officers will salute when they arrive at 
point A. Company officers will salute at a point 10 paces 
outside the saluting base. The battalion commander after 
he has saluted, will move out and place himself on the right 
of the reviewing officer, and remain there until the battalion 
has passed, the senior major assuming command. 

11. Position of Officers when marching past in Close 
Column. — iWhen marching past in close column of com- 
panies, the battalion commander will be fifteen paces in front 
of the centre of the leading company. The senior major and 
the adjutant will be ten paces in rear of the centre platoons 
of the rear company, the senior major nearest the saluting 
base. Company commanders will be three paces from the 
outer flank of their companies. Officers second in command 
of companies and officers commanding platoons will be as in 
line, but dividing the frontage of their companies equally 
between them. 

12. Other Movements on Inspection Parades.— (i)— Ad- 
vancing in Review Order.— This movement will seldom be 
required of cadet battalions. It is executed as under: 

Advance in Review Order. Quick— March.— The bat- 
talion having been formed into line, with bayonets fixed and 
arms sloped, will advance by the centre, the band and drums 
playing till within thirty paces of the reviewing officer, when 
it will be halted and ordered to salute in the same manner as 



24 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

when receiving him ; after which it will be directed to order 
arms, and will wait for orders. 

(ii) Marching past in Column of Route. — On the com- 
pletion of a parade the reviewing officer may direct the bat- 
talion to march past him in column of route. This being the 
ordinary formation of fours in which a battalion marches along 
a road, hardly comes within the scope of ceremonial drill ; but 
attention is called to the following points : 

The battalion commander, with his adjutant, rides at the 
head of the column, and the senior major in rear of it. The 
company commander and company sergeant-major march at 
the head of each company, the second captain and company 
quartermaster-sergeant in rear. Platoon commanders march 
in front, and platoon sergeants in rear, of their respective 
platoons. In no case will more than four individuals march 
abreast. 

Section 6.— Rations and Cooking. 

1. What to Cook and How to Cook It.— The British 
soldier is one of the best fed of any in the world. While he 
may have been over-fed in the past the experience of the 
last three years has taught the army just what to provide and 
how to make the mess appetizing and strengthening. The 
first duty of the mess officer should be to inspect and pass 
upon all food before it is cooked so that no stomach disorders 
can be laid to the food. Officers in charge of food are taught 
how to pass upon it according to regulations, and they should 
be careful and thorough in their inspection. The ration and 
dietary tables show just what to furnish daily to make 
a balanced ration. A section is devoted to cooking recipes. 



GENERAL INTRODUCTION 25 

Section 7 —In the Field. 

1. When the home camps are broken up and the men 
sent to France for final training the same rules to govern 
camps, billets and bivouacs will apply. The circumstances 
will vary, but the adaptable commander will have no difficulty 
in making his work efficient. The intensive training will bring 
up new problems, but the seasoned instructors will know just 
what to do and how to do it thoroughly and quickly. It is an 
art in itself, and only mastered by months of experience on 
the firing line. More room will be needed than in the home 
camps and the work will be more exacting and severe in order 
to season the men to hardships and strenuous work. 

2. Lessons of the Trenches. — There are many things in 
the life in the trenches which have been learned for the benefit 
of the men who are to occupy them. There were new problems 
of sanitation never before experienced, and these have been 
solved by brilliant medical minds after bitter sufferings. Every 
sector has its problems, from the wet morasses to the sand 
dunes along the coast. The gratifying lessening of the sick 
reports shows that the Army owes a deep debt of gratitude 
to the medical men for the way they have handled one of the 
most difficult phases of the present war. The engineers have 
helped by the excellent working out of plans for the Field 
Entrenchments. The latrines and dugouts have been so wisely 
planned that the usual disorders where large bodies of men 
remain practically immovable are practically discounted. The 
quartermaster service has devised ways of feeding the men 
with fresh, wholesome food which not only satisfies, but gives 
the men the elements of food to maintain strength and prevent 
lassitude where there is little exercise for the body. Con- 
tinual vigilance and constant inspection is now the safeguard 
for the life in the trenches. 



26 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

3. Care of the Feet. — It has been said that there were 
two important ends to the soldier — the head and the feet. 
Some have even declared that there is only one — the feet. 
Every experienced army officer knows the importance of caring 
for the feet of his men, from the careful fitting of shoes and 
socks to precautions in bathing and laving the sore members 
in chemical solutions. The test of the feet comes when the 
recruit is taught to march. It is an axiom in the army that 
civilians walk while soldiers march, and there is a great dif- 
ference. When a column starts off on a 15-mile march as a 
day's work, each soldier carrying a load of 60 pounds, he must 
shoes that have been broken in should be used ; the socks 
should be soaped at the heel and toes; the feet should be 
bathed in soapy water. At each stop of any length of time the 
feet should be washed and the blisters taken care of, and at 
the end of the march the first thing to do is to care for the 
feet. 

4. Trench Feet. — One of the great troubles is caused by 
what is termed "trench feet." It has incapacitated more men 
for short periods than disease. In wet trenches, especially in 
the cold months, the feet swell and become so tender that 
it is almost impossible to stand. Frost bites add to the pain 
and a soldier with trench feet is of no use on the firing line. 
The medical officers now provide foot baths, relays of dry 
socks and shoes and a solution of "anti-frostbite." If the men 
are taken care of at the time, the loss of their services will 
be reduced to a minimum. 



CHAPTER II 
INSPECTION 

Section 7. — General Remarks. 

1. The Vriue of Inspection. — The principle which under 
lies the whole science of military training in every branch 
and for every arm is that training must be carried out on a 
homogeneous and consistent system throughout the British 
Army. This rule is also laid down as a fundamental 
principle of Imperial defence, and applies not only to the 
British Army, but to the military forces of the whole Empire. 
The need for this principle is obvious, for, unless the various 
units of the Imperial forces which are scattered in different 
parts of the World are organized and trained upon a con- 
sistent system, it will not be possible for them to be organized 
quickly and easily for effective combined action for the 
defence of the Empire in a supreme emergency. 

2. The principles upon which British troops are trained 
in all blanches of instruction are very clearly laid down in 
the various official textbooks. This is done so that there may 
be no confusion or mistake regarding the methods to be em- 
ployed or the exact nature of the instruction. But this alone 
is not sufficient to insure that the principles of instruction 
in any branch are being applied in practice correctly and 
consistently to the training of troops by the officers of all 
the different units of the army in various places. It is to 
insure that this is being done that periodical inspections 
are carried out at convenient times every year while troops 

27 



28 INSPECTION [7 

are actually under instruction — generally during the period 
of their field training. 

3. Inspection ol Cadet Corps. — The function of ofiicers 
who inspect cadet camps will not differ materially from that 
of ofiicers who inspect troops, and in a sense their duties 
will be no less important ; for cadet corps are now recognized 
as part of the military system of the Empire in the Mother 
Country and in the Dominions. The training of the soldier 
is commenced in these corps in those parts of the Empire 
in which instruction in them is obligatory, and this may 
also be the case in other parts where instruction is volun- 
tary. It is therefore essential, if trouble, delay, expense, 
and confusion, are to be avoided when cadets join the regu- 
lar and citizen forces of the Empire as soldiers, that their 
training as cadets in every part of the Empire should be 
carried out upon principles strictly consistent with those 
laid down in. the official textbooks of the British Army, 
upon which the manuals of this series are based. It will 
be the important duty of ofiicers inspecting cadet corps to 
guide cadet officers and instructors so as to insure that in 
every stage of their training the instruction of cadets, so 
far as it goes, is being carried out upon consistent principles 
and correct methods. 

4. Inspections, therefore, should form a regular part of 
the training of cadet corps. The place and time for carry- 
ing out inspections must depend upon circumstances in 
each case, and no general rule regarding them can be laid 
down. It is clear, however, that the camp training period 
affords a good opportunity for carrying out inspections, 
because various units, which might otherwise have to be 
inspected separately in different places, may be assembled 
together in camp and can be inspected together. 

~5. Hints for Inspecting Officers. — (i) A thorough in- 
spection, carefully carried out by an efficient inspecting 
officer who is ready and able to point out where and how 



7] GENERAL REMARKS 29 

improvement can be made, should provide most valuable 
instruction to both officers and cadets. A casual in- 
spection has no military value. The inspecting officer 
must recognize what are the salient points to look into, 
and not allow himself to waste time on small matters 
which are easily remedied and are of less importance. At 
the same time, he must not neglect details, however small. 
He should make up his mind, before he commences, as to 
what he wants to see and find out. Faults which require 
correction should be pointed out, and information as to the 
best method to remedy them should be given, 

(ii) Faults. — If faults arise from carelessness, laziness, or 
want of • discipline, they should certainly be criticized 
severely ; but any faults arising from want of either experi- 
ence or training which it has not been possible to obtain 
should be treated leniently, and corrected in such a manner 
that those inspected feel that instruction is being imparted 
and experience gained — not that they are being censured 
for what they are not wholly to blame. Inspecting officers 
should do all in their power to make their inspections 
really helpful and instructive to those whom they 
inspect. 

(iii) Praise and Blame. — It is a mistake to give praise where 
it is not really deserved. On the other hand, criticism must 
never be unduly harsh. Officers inspecting cadet corps 
must remember that both cadet officers and cadets, how- 
ever earnest they may be in learning their work as soldiers, 
may have to be trained to some extent under disadvan- 
tages, such as a limited time for instruction and more 01 
less inadequate facilities in the shape of ground and equip- 
ment. Under these circumstances, unmerited praise will 
not encourage cadets, while unduly harsh criticism regard- 
ing imperfections, due partly or wholly to want of oppor- 
tunities for training, will be unjust and calculated to dis- 
hearten them. 



jo INSPECTION [7 

(iv) Unnecessary inspections. — Though inspections are essen- 
tial for 1 the efficiency of units and the value of cadet corps 
as a whole, unnecessary inspections will prove irksome, and 
should be avoided. The better trained and more efficient 
cadets are, the less wearisome inspections will prove, for in 
this case no special preparations are necessary to prepare 
for inspection, because an efficient corps is always fit to be 
inspected at any time. Special preparations for an inspec- 
tion are only necessary when cadets are not thoroughly 
trained, and are to some extent inefficient and unready. 

6. Inspection of Cadets in Camps and Billets.— The in- 
spection of cadets in camps and billets should be carried 
out by an officer who is not connected with the units he 
inspects. He should, if possible, be a Regular or Terri- 
torial officer of experience. If the services of such an 
officer cannot be obtained, the inspection may be carried 
out by the officer commanding the units quartered in camps 
or billets. When an officer is not connected with any of 
the units he inspects, the inspection will probably be com- 
pleted in a day. If, on the other hand, units are inspected 
by their commanding officer, it will not be necessary to 
arrange a special occasion for the inspection, as he will 
have opportunities for a more or less continuous inspection 
of units without the need of inspecting them at any par- 
ticular parade (Sec. 9). 

7. Ceremonial Inspection. — If time is available, the in- 
specting officer should certainly hold a ceremonial parade, 
however small the number of cadets in camp may be, He 
will have a good opportunity on this parade of noting 
the physique, steadiness, and general appearance, of 
the cadets as a whole; and by passing down the ranks 
he will be able to make a close inspection of each cadet. 
Moreover, a ceremonial parade appeals strongly to the 
soldiery instinct, and serves to arouse a natural feeling of 
pride in each individual taking part in it. Detailed instruc- 



tions for carrying out the more ordinary movements exe- 
cuted on ceremonial parades by the company and battalion 
are contained in Chapter I. 

Section 8. — Inspection of Training and Interior 
Economy. 

1. The inspection of cadets quartered in camps or billets 
should be devoted to matters which may be classified under 
two heads — namely, Training and Interior Economy. 
Under the head of Training will come all matters relating 
to the instruction of cadets in military duties, both in the 
field and in the camp. Under the head of Interior Economy 
come all matters affecting the management of the camp — , 
for example, equipment, questions relating to sanitation, 
food and water-supply, etc. 

2. The method of carrying out the inspection of the 
training of the cadets must naturally depend entirely on 
the nature of the work being carried out in the camp. If 
It is a large camp at which a comprehensive scheme of 
training is being carried out, it will be best for the inspecting 
officer to arrange a tactical exercise in attack and defence, 
which will give him an opportunity of testing the cadets 
and their leaders as fully as possible. On the other, hand, 
if the camp is a small one, at which it has not been possible 
to go in for such an extensive form of training as described 
above, the inspecting officer may arrange for something 
more simple, such as simple exercises in the duties of out- 
posts. No definite rule, however, can be laid down, and 
inspecting officers must use their discretion in carrying out 
their inspection as thoroughly as possible. 

3. Points for Criticism. — The following points, apart 
from the general scope of the training and its consistency 
with the principles of the army textbooks, upon which 
emphasis has already been laid, are suggested as a rough 



3* INSPECTION [8 

guide to officers inspecting cadet corps, as subjects for 
criticism and remark: 

(i) The discipline of cadets. 

(ii) Their intelligence, smartness, and general appear- 
ance, 
(iii) The ability of the officers and cadet N.C.O.'s 

to command and instruct, 
(iv) The physique and condition of cadets.* 
(v) Their efficiency in military duties. 
The discipline of cadets may be judged by the manner in 
which the guard turns out and the sentries salute* and by 
their general bearing, as, for instance, whether they slouch 
or move in a brisk "and soldierly way. The manner in 
which they perform their military duties, especially in the 
case of field exercises, will also enable inspecting officers 
to judge of the discipline in cadet corps. 

4. Intelligence and Smartness. — The general intelligence 
of cadets may be tested by asking them questions, by 
listening to them passing verbal messages, by watching them 
in their conduct and movements during the training. 
Their smartness and general appearance may be judged by 
a short ceremonial parade, at which the inspecting officer 
can walk down the ranks and examine the cadets closely. 
He should note how they handle their arms on parade and 
their steadiness in the ranks during the march past. 

5. Military Efficiency. — The efficiency of officers and 
cadets in military duties should be judged by practical 
tests. These tests, when possible, should consist o£ simple 
tactical schemes in field exercises. In watching such exer- 
cises, inspectors should particularly note the ability of 
officers and N.C.O.'s /to command and lead their cadets. 
He should note carefully whether both officers and cadets 
carefully apply under practical conditions the principles 
which govern the more important principles of field train- 
ing, as, for instance, the use of ground and cover, forma-* 



8 J TRAINING AND INTERIOR ECONOMY 33 

tions, methods of advance, co-operation between different 
units, and fire direction and control.* Simple tactical 
schemes in outpost duties by night as well as by day give 
an inspecting officer good opportunities for testing the 
knowledge, initiative, and resource, of officers, N.C.O.'s, and 
cadets. Elementary night operations also constitute an 
admirable test of discipline as well as of military efficiency, 
as absolute silence, implicit obedience to orders, thorough 
comprehension of orders, and skilful leadership, are all 
essential for success. 

6. As a guide to inspecting officers as to points for criti- 
cism in a field exercise consisting of a tactical scheme, the 
following may be mentioned as faults which are most likely 
to be committed by cadets in outpost exercises : 

(a) Too many sentries and pickets are employed. 
. (b) Isolated sentries are posted too far from the groups 
to which they belong. 

(c) Patrols are sent out with no definite mission to perform . 

(d) Positions chosen for pickets are not suitable for 
defence. 

(e) Men of pickets do not know the positions they are to 
occupy in case of alarm. 

(f) Supports are too far from the pickets. 

(g) There is too much shouting, talking, and movement 
in the picket line. 

(h) Sentries have not been properly instructed as to section 
of the ground in front of them which they are to watch. 

7. Special Classes. — If there are any special classes of 
instruction being carried on — for instance, signalling or 
first aid — the inspecting officer should make a point of 
seeing them at work, to ascertain whether the instruction 
is in accordance with the regulations on the subject, and 
if the progress of ths cadets is satisfactory. 

* See chapters vi. and vii. of the Drill and Field Training Manual 
of this series. See also the Musketry Manual of this series. 



34 INSPECTION r 9 

8. Inspection of Interior Economy.— If the inspecting 
officer is not connected with the units inspected, he should 
take note of the following points with reference to the in- 
terior economy of camps: 

(i) The general appearance of the camp, the suitability 
of its site ; the pitching of tents, correctness and alignment 
of poles and tent-pegs. 

(ii) The sanitary arrangements, position and sufficiency 
of latrines, general cleanliness- of the camp lines, disposal 
of refuse and rubbish. 

(iii) Feeding arrangements* kitchens, quality and quantity 
of food. 

(iv) Hospital arrangements ; care of the sick. 

(v) Recreation and refreshment tents for cadets and 
staff sergeants' mess. 

(vi) Officers' mess ; arrangements and cost of messing. 

The inspecting officer v should go round some of the lines 
during the dinner-hour and satisfy himself that the cadets 
are sufficiently fed and are contented with the feeding 
arrangements. 

Section 9.— Inspection by Commanding Officers 
connected with Units. 

1. When the inspections are carried out by battalion 
commanders or officers commanding camp, the inspecting 
officer will make it his business to ascertam and report on all 
the different points which are mentioned in Sec. 8. He 
will be able to make a more thorough and continuous 
inspection than an officer who may be sent to the camp 
especially to inspect it. Besides the points already men- 
tioned, he should note whether the cadet officers are carry- 
ing out their instructional duties in a satisfactory manner 
and in accordance with regulations. 

2. At least once during the training he should inspect the 



9 TRAINING AND INTERIOR ECONOMY 35 

lines of each battalion or company under his command. 
The coinmandirig officer should endeavour to do this every 
morning. For this inspection the tents should be com- 
pletely cleared, the kits and blankets laid out in regular 
lines, the cadets in line behind them. The commanding 
officer should walk along each row of tents, see that all 
ground in the vicinity of each tent is clean aad swept up, 
and also all roads between battalions and companies for the 
cleanliness of which the companies under his command are 
responsible. 

3. Cutlery, cups and saucers, plates, washing pots, mess 
tins, must all be laid out and spotlessly clean ; and any 
spare rations, such as bread, jam, etc., which is being kept 
over for another meal, should be put away in a dry,- clean 
receptacle provided for the purpose. The commanding 
officer should also make a point of often visiting his lines 
during meal hours, to ascertain that the food is sufficient, of 
good quality, and well served. 

- 4. He must pay particular attention during each inspec- 
tion to the condition of the rifles of cadets if they bring these 
to camp, unless, of course, they are mere dummy rifles used 
only for the purpose of drill, and not for firing. 



CHAPTER III 

SENTRIES AKD GUARD MOUNTING 

Section 10. — Sentries. 

1. General Remarks. — The duties of outpost sentries, 
which are dealt with in the Drill and Field Training Manual 
of this series, are entirely different from those of sentries 
furnished by the guard which is mounted daily in camps and 
barracks. The orders to such sentries are to walk about 
their post in a brisk and soldierly manner. Their chief duty 
is to prevent any irregularities in or near the camp or 
barracks. In carrying out his duties, a camp sentry has the 
opportunity of helping very materially towards maintaining 
the good name of his regiment. The state of the discipline 
in a regiment can fairly accurately be gauged by the manner 
in which its guard duties are performed, and by the smart- 
ness with which the sentries walk their posts and salute. 

2. Number of Posts. — (i) The number of posts for which 
sentries are to be found in cadet camps or billets will be 
decided by the adjutant or camp commandant. In large 
camps, where battalion lines are side by side, the » flank 
battalions will generally find three posts : one on the front, 
one on the rear, and one on the exposed flank of the camp. 
Two posts, one on the front and one on the rear, will usually 
be sufficient for each of the battalions in the middle. 

(ii) A battalion or detachment camped by itself will 
require the front, rear, and both flanks to be watched. The 
number of sentries which will be required to do this will 
depend on the size of the camp. If a small one, two sentries 
will probably suffice, as one sentry could watch the front 

36 



DUTIES OF SENTRIES 37 

and one flank of the camp, while the other sentry could 
watch the rear and the other flank. If the camp is a large 
one four sentries will be required. 

3. Duties of Sentries.— (i) A sentry should never stand 
easy. If he does stand at ease, he should always do so 
properly and at one end of his beat. He must keep a keen 
watch about him, and make sure that he does not neglect to 
pay the proper compliments. A sentry must be smart in 
appearance, intelligent, and well informed. He must be 
able to recognize the badges of rank worn by officers both of 
the navy and army. He must know his orders thoroughly 
and understand them clearly. The orders for a sentry 
posted in cadet camps or billets will be made out by the 
adjutant of the battalion or camp commandant. In general 
the sentry's duties will be — 

(a) To take care of all camp property in view of his post, 
and to allow none to be removed or touched except by an 
authorized person. 

(b) To inquire the business of anyone not connected with 
the camp who may try to enter the lines, and, if necessary, 
direct the latter to the guard-tent or call the commander of 
the guard. 

(c) To allow no one to loiter about on his beat, 

(d) To allow no man to leave camp improperly dressed. 
{e) To report to the commander of the guard if he sees 

any suspicious characters enter the lines. 

(J) To challenge all persons approaching his post after 
dark, and not to allow them to pass unless he is satisfied that 
they have a right to be there. 

(g) To take the name of any man passing his post to go to 
the latrine after dark, and report to the commander of the 
guard if the man is away an unnecessarily long time. 

(h) If there is a fire or any disturbance in camp, to imme- 
diately alarm the guard. ^ 

(0 If there is any talking or noise in any of the tents after 



38 SENTRIES AND GUARD MOUNTING (10 

Lights out, except in the tents of those who have special per- 
mission, to report the matter to the commander of the 
guard 

(7) To pay proper compliments. 

(k) To turn out the guard on the different occasions 
already specified. 

(I) When posted over the guard-tent he will, if there is 
time, warn the guard that they must turn out, by saying in a 
low tone of voice, Stand by the guard. He will then give 
the order: Turn out the guard, in a loud voice. This will- 
help to insure that the guard turns out together. 

(m) When posted over special places, such as the officers' 
lines or near water-taps, etc., he will receive special orders. 

(ii) When a sentry is visited by the captain or subaltern 
of the day he must be prepared to be able to repeat his 
orders and know what his duty is. A sentry's front is away 
from the camp or property which he is guarding. When 
turning about at the end of his beat, a sentry will turn 
outwards — i.e., towards his front. 

4. Sentries Challenging. — (i) When it becomes dark, the 
sentries will challenge in the following manner : On the 
approach of a p«rson, the sentry will call out in a sharp tone ; 
Halt / Who comes there ? When on a post where a sudden 
rush could be made upon* him, he will at once come to the 
engage,* but without drawing back the right foot. If the 
person approaching gives a satisfactory reply, the sentry will 
say, Pass, friend ; airs well, remaining at the engage till he 
has passed. If the person approaching answers, Visiting 
rounds, the sentry, if there is no countersign, will say, Pass, 
visiting rounds ; all's well. But if there is a countersign he 
will say, Stand, visiting rounds ; advance and give the counter- 
sign, at the same time coming down to the engage. In this 
position he will receive the countersign, and if it is correct, 

* la coming to the engage from the slope, seize the rifle with the 
right hand at the small, and come to the engage. 



10] DUTIES OF SENTRIES 39 

will say, Pass on, visiting rounds ; all's well, and proceed as 
above described. 

(ii) If the sentry is on or near the guard-room door he will 
proceed according to the directions for turning out the 
guard at night for visiting rounds. See p. 45. 

5. Sentries Saluting — (i) Armee* Sentries. — (a) Armed sentries 
salute by presenting arms to all officers in uniform above the 
rank of captain and to armed parties between reveille and 
retreat 

(b) By standing facing the front, with the rifle sloped, the 
right hand on the small of the butt, forearm horizontal, back 
of the hand to the front, ringers extended. This salute is 
given to all officers under the rank of major. 

(c) By standing facing the front with the rifle sloped but 
with the right arm at the side. This is done after retreat. 

(ii) Unarmed Sentries. — Unarmed sentries will salute by 
turning to their front, placing the cane under the left armpit 
in a horizontal position, ferrule to the front, and saluting 
with the right hand. 

(iii) Sentries will not present arms to any officer or armed 
party after retreat; but as long as they can discern an 
officer they will come to their front on his approach and 
stand steady with the rifle at the slope till he has passed. 

(iv) .Between reveille and retreat sentries will present 
arms when armed, or salute with the right hand when 
unarmed, to all officers above the rank of captain, and all 
armed parties. They will halt and turn to the front to all 
other officers in uniform and to unarmed parties. Un- 
armed sentries will salute. 

6. Relieving and Posting Sentries. — (i) On the approach of 
the relief, the sentry, with rifle at the slope will place himself 
at the end of his beat nearest to the advancing relief. The 
corporal of the relief, will proceed as follows : 

'Relief, halt — at about six paces from the sentry. 

The new sentry will then move out from the relief and fall 



4 o SENTRIES AND GUARD MOUNTING [11 

in on the left of the old sentry, facing in the same direction ; 
the old sentry will then give over his orders; the corporal 
seeing that they are correctly given and understood. 

Pass. — The old sentry will move to his place in the relief 
And the new sentry will close two paces to his right. 
Relief Quick March. — The relief will be marched off. 

(ii) When a sentry who is to be posted in a new place has 
reached the post assigned to him, he will be ordered to halt 
and face in the required direction. The corporal will then 
read and explain the orders to him. 

(iii) The object for which he is posted, the front of his 
post, and the extent of his beat, will be clearly pointed out to 
a sentry when first posted. Sentries must not quit their 
arms, lounge, or converse with anyone on any pretence. 
Sentries moving about on their post will always turn out- 
wards when turning about. 

7. Marching Reliefs. — Reliefs of fewer than four men 
will be formed in single rank, when of four men or upwards 
they will be formed in two ranks (in streets or narrow places 
reliefs should always be marched in single rank). When 
marching in line, the corporal will be on the right, when in 
file (or as in file) he will be on the right of the rear file (or 
man). 

"Section 11. — Guards. 

1. It will rest with the Brigadier or camp commandant 
whether guards are formed by day and night in cadet camps 
or billets. They may be necessary by night, and may be 
advisable by day as well. Although training in guard 
duties is good for cadets, from a disciplinary point of view, 
they should, as already stated, be reduced to a minimum, 
together with the sentry duties* they involve, to set cadets 

* This remark does not apply to. the duties of outpost sen trie* 
which form are an important part of their field training by day and 
night. 



Ill GUARD DUTIES 4* 

free for more important branches of instruction for which 
training in camp affords valuable opportunities. 

The hour at which guards will mount will also rest with 
the Brigadier or camp 'commandant or his staff officer or 
adjutant. In cadet camps when time is available the even- 
ing is %he best hour for guard mounting. 

2. Detailing for Guard. — (i) A sentry belongs to the guard 
which is mounted daily. His company is detailed by the 
sergeant-major to find a given number of N.C.O.'sand men 
for the guard. The company orderly sergeant keeps what 
is called a roster. This is a roll of the company. When- 
ever a man does a guard, fatigue, or any other duty the 
date on which he performed the duty is placed against his 
name. Each man takes his turn of guard if he is what is 
called a duty man. A duty man is one who does not fill 
any special post, and is qualified to go on guard. If he is 
a clerk, an officer's servant, a company cook, or storeman, 
or is otherwise employed, he is not taken for guard, and is 
thus not reckoned as a duty man. 

(ii) As soon as the sergeant-major says that a certain 
company will find a number of N.C.O.'sand men for the guard, 
the orderly sergeant looks down the roster and details the 
duty men on his roster who come next for guard. In the 
army when in barracks men are warned for any duty for 
which they are detailed by means of a list posted on the 
company's notice-board. The men themselves are held 
responsible for finding out each day what duty they are 
detailed for on the following day. In cadet camps, where 
notice boards are not available, cadets may be warned 
personally for duties. 

(iii) When a man knows he is for guard duty on the follow- 
ing day, he generally sets about getting his accoutrements and 
clothes cleaned rather more carefully than he would perhaps 
for an ordinary parade, as the adjutant and sergeant-major 
make a much more complete inspection of the men at guard 



42 SENTRIES AND GUARD MOUNTING [11 

mounting than the captain of a company would have the 
time to do. 

3. Guard Mounting. — (i) At a fixed hour on the following 
day the men for guard duty fall in under the orders of the 
sergeant-major. There is no regulation way for a guard to 
fall in for inspection. 

(ii) As soon as the guard has fallen in, and the men 
composing it have been reported present or otherwise by the 
company orderly sergeants to the sergeant-major, they 
are called to attention, and ordered to right-dress. Bayonets 
are then fixed, the men stand at ease, and wait for the 
arrival of the adjutant. On the approach of the latter, 
the sergeant-major orders the guard to slope arms, 
and then reports the guard present or otherwise to the 
adjutant. 

(iii) The adjutant then gives the command Order arms, 
and proceeds to inspect the guard. This inspection is a 
very minute one, and any man dirty or improperly dressed 
is severely dealt with. Bayonets are then unfixed, and 
the rifles are inspected. It is generally the custom for the 
cleanest man detailed for guard to be picked out. On 
being selected, the clean man falls out, and moving round 
to the rear, falls in on the left of the waiting man. As soon 
as the guard is marched off, the clean man goes to his room 
or tent, puts away, his rifle, and then takes up his post 
at the orderly room, as commanding officer's orderly for 
the day. This is a coveted duty to be selected for. A 
good soldier will naturally be proud of himself for being 
picked out as a clean man. His duties are light, and 
he escapes sentry duty. It is recommended that this selec- 
tion of a clean man is also carried out on cadet guard 
mountings. 

(iv) After the clean man has fallen out and the adjutant 
has completed his inspection, the commander of the guard 
is ordered to tell off his guard. He steps to the front, and 



11] GUARD DUTIES 43 

the corporal in the rear rank steps forward and takes his 
place. The guard is again dressed, and the commander 
tells off each man, either as first relief, No. i post, or 
second relief, etc. He then falls in in rear of the guard. 

(v.) The sergeant-major then calls on the commander 
to report whether all is correct, salutes adjutant, and 
reports Guard correct, sir. The adjutant calls the guard 
to attention, fixes bayonets, and slopes arms. The guard 
is then marched off. The dress for guard mounting is 
usually review order, with or without greatcoats, as ordered. 
If the greatcoats are not worn on guard mounting, they 
are taken down to the guard-room or tent along with the 
men's bedding, etc., for the night. ■ Ifi camp the guard 
wears marching order. 

(vi) The way in which guard mounting is carried out 
varies slightly in different battalions, but the above pro- 
cedure is sufficiently simple, and is recommended for cadet 
corps. If the corps are unarmed, the cadets should carry 
canes, and go through the same drill except the arm drill 
described above. 

4. Relieving Guards. — (i) The following directions laid 
down for infantry should be followed as closely as possible 
by cadet corps, armed or unarmed : 

(ii) General Rules. — (a) When guards turn out, they will 
fall in with sloped arms and fixed bayonets if armed; if 
unarmed, the commander only will carry a cane, which 
will be placed under the left armpit in a horizontal position, 
ferrule to the front. 

(b) The non-commissioned officer in command will fall 
in on the right of the guard. 

(c) Guards, including reliefs, rounds, and patrols, will 
march with sloped arms and bayonets fixed. In wet 
weather arms will be carried at the secure. Armed sentries 
are to patrol with sloped rifles ; unarmed sentries will carry 
a cane in the right hand at the trail — i.e., in a horizontal 



44 SENTRIES AND GUARD MOUNTING [11 

position at the full extent of the right arm and grasped at 
the point of balance. 

(d) Guards will not turn out after retreat or before 
reveille, except at tattoo, on the approach of an armed 
party, in cases of alarm, or to receive visiting rounds, nor 
will they during their period pay any compliments. 

(iii) Honours and Salutes. — The following honours and salutes 
will be paid by guards : 

Between reveille and retreat (a) the guard will turn out 
and present arms, and the bugler will sound the salute to a 
general officer *in uniform passing, in front of the guard. 
If he passes behind, the bugler will not sound nor will the 
guard present arms. 

{b) To the battalion commander, when in uniform, the 
guard will turn out and present arms once by day. 

(c) To all armed complete units — i.e., a cavalry regiment, 
a battalion of infantry, a battery of artillery, a cadet 
battalion passing the guard. By day the guard will 
present arms; between retreat and reveille it will stand 
with sloped arms. 

The guard will not present arms by day to unarmed 
parties, and will not turn out between retreat and reveille 
to unarmed parties. 

(d) The guard will turn out both by day and night when 
visited by the captain of the day or the subaltern of the 
day. The guard will not present arms unless the captain 
of the day is a major in rank, and will not do so to him after 
retreat. 

(e) Guards will turn out at the commencement of the call 
for reveille, retreat, and tattoo being sounded. The com- 
mander will carefully inspect them and then dismiss 
them. 

(iv) Relieving or Posting a Guard. — {a) When the ground 
admits, a new guard will advance in line towards the front 
of the old guard, and will be drawn up when possible 



11] GUARD DUTIES 45 

fifteen paces in front, or, when not possible, six paces from 
the left of the old guard. 

(b) As soon as this is completed, the old guard will 
present arms, and the new guard will return the salute. 
Commanders of guards will present arms at the same time 
as the men. 

(c) Both guards will in like successive manner slope arms, 
order arms, and stand at ease. 

(d) The guard will then be told off, and the first relief 
sent out. When the first relief of a new guard is sent out, 
a corporal belonging to the old guard will accompany it, 
to bring in the relieved sentries. If the relief moves in 
line, he will be on the left flank; if in file (or as in file) he 
will be at the head of the front rank of files (or rank). As 
soon as all the sentries are relieved, the two corporals will 
change places, and the corporal of the old guard will assume 
command. While the relief is marching round, the com- 
mander will take over the property in charge of the guard 
according to the list in the old guard report. 

(e) When the reliefs have returned, and all the cadets of 
the old guard have fallen in, both guards will be called to 
attention and ordered to slope arms. 

(/) The old guard will then move off in fours or file, the 
new guard presenting arms. 

(g) When the old guard is clear of the ground, the new 
guard will slope arms, and, if not already there, will move 
on to the same alignment occupied by the old guard. 
Arms will then be ordered, and the commander of the 
guard will read and explain the orders of the guard to his 
men; these orders will also be read and explained to the 
cadets forming the first relief when they come off sentry. 
The men of the guard will then be dismissed to the guard 
tent. 

5. Guards turning out at Night — visiting Rounds.— The 
following form will be observed when a guard is visited by 



the captain of the day or subaltern of the day, on visiting 

rounds: 

y) Where the sentry is not directed to challenge, visiting rounds 
will, on approaching his post, inform the sentry as to their identity. 
The sentry will then call : Guard— turn out The guard will fall 
in with bayonets fixed and arms sloped, and the commander will 
call out : Advance, visiting rounds.; AIVs well. He will remain 
at the slope. 

(ii) If there is a countersign' to be given, a corporal or 
sergeant with a flank file of the guard will double out, and, 
when about ten paces from the rounds, will order the file 
to halt, bring them to iOn Guard;, and will then repeat the 
challenge: Who comes there? The reply will again be: 
Visiting rounds. The non-commissioned officer calling, 
Stand, visiting rounds. Advance one, and give the counter- 
sign. Rounds will then in a low voice give the countersign, 
which the non-commissioned officer alone will carry in double 
time for verification to the commander of the guard. If 
correct, the commander of the guard will call out: Advance, 
visiting rounds ; all's well. The file will then double back 
to the guard, and rounds will advance to the guard. 

Section 12.— Pickets in Camps, and Billets. 

1. A picket from each battalion is always detailed for 
duty in camp and barracks in the case of troops. Whether 
pickets are detailed or not in cadet camps or billets is a 
matter for the camp commandant to decide. If possible, 
the time of cadets should not be occupied in this work. 

2. The principal duties of the picket in camp or barracks 
are to find sentries over the canteen when it is open and 
sentries on posts which do not require armed sentries. 
The picket is always on duty, and is useful to reinforce the 
guard in case of emergency or to send out into the streets 



12} GUARD DUTIES 47 

if there is a disturbance going on in which soldiers may be 
engaged. In stations abroad it patrols the lines during 
the night on the lookout for thieves or other suspicious 
characters. 

3. In cadet camps, if a picket is detailed, its duty would 
be to patrol the lines and prevent any lights or talking in 
the tents after lights out has sounded. It would fall in at 
once and assist the guard in the event of any general dis- 
turbance in the camp. The picket mounts with the guard 
and parades for inspection at last post. 

• A picket in camp or barracks must not be confused with a picket 
forming part of an outpost 4ine, the duties of which form an important 
part of the field training of soldiers by day and night(see thzDrilland 
Field Training Manual of this series). 



PART II 

QUARTERS 

CHAPTER IV 
BILLETS, CAMPS, AND BIVOUACS 

Section 13. — General Information. 

1. Quarters take the form of billets, close billets, 
bivouacs, and camps. Camps admit of concentration, and 
are more healthy than bivouacs, but will only be used on 
service by troops engaged in field operations under excep- 
tional circumstances. When not in proximity to the enemy, 
the health and com' rt of the troops are the first considera- 
tions. Camps may stiii oe used in uncivilized or sparsely- 
inhabited theatres of .v^r, and when they cannot be dis- 
pensed with owing to climatic and other reasons. Campr 
will also be employed generally throughout the British 
Empire for the peace training of soldiers. 

2. Billets are the usual form of quarters in civilized 
countries when not in immediate proximity to the enemy. 
They allow of proper rest and give shelter from the weather, 
but usually cause dispersion of the troops. This disad- 
vantage may be overcome partially by resorting to close 
billets, when as many men as possible sleep in houses, 
the remainder bivouacking. Billets give concentration and 
readiness, but are trying to the health of men and horses, 
and should only be resorted to when tactical considerations 
make it imperative to do so. 

4 8 



131 GENERAL INFORMATION 49 

3. Tactical Considerations. — In the presence of an enemy, 
tactical considerations — e.g., favourable ground for deploy- 
ment in the event of attack, concealment, facilities for pro- 
tection, and economy in outposts, are of the first importance. 
Under these circumstances the time which it will take to 
got the troops under arms and in position to meet the 
enemy, determines the form of quarters to be adopted. 
Thus, it will often be possible to billet the main body of an 
army, its covering force being placed partly in close billets 
and partly in bivouac. 

4. If a force is halted for a single night only, dismounted 
troops should not be quartered at a greater distance than 
from one to two miles from their line of march next day. 
Dismounted units should be nearest the water-supply. 
Staffs and hospitals have the first claim on buildings. 
Officers must be close to their men. 

5. General Arrangements on the Arrival of Troops.— 
(i) Before the troops are dismissed, all necessary defensive 
precautions must be taken, guards mounted, police posts 
established, and water, fuel, and forage parties detailed. 
The arrangements of the. brigade area, the boundaries of 
the unit's area, and other matters of a similar nature will 
also be explained to the men. 

(ii) Units, on their arrival, should be halted on their 
alarm posts. Everyone must be made to understand 
clearly what he has to do in case of alarm, and should know 
the names of all prominent features of ground near the 
area, and where the roads in the immediate neighbourhood 
lead to. Names should be invented for such features if 
none exist. 

(iii) No troops, other than orderlies and parties for water 
wood, forage, etc., under proper control,. are to quit their 
areas until leave has been given by the commander of the 
brigade area. 

(iv) Each commander of a unit will,, without delay, send 



,59 " BILLETS, CAMPS. AND BIVOUACS [13 

an orderly who knows the. position of the unit's head- 
quarters to report himself at the brigade office. 

(v) If a state of constant readiness is ordered, troops will 
remain accoutred and will sleep with their arms handy, and 
it may even be necessary that horses should be kept always 
saddled and harnessed. In billets, lights must in this case 
be kept burning in houses, stables, and streets; and doors 
must be kept open. 

6. Discipline. — (i) The daily duties mount as a rule 
immediately a new halting-place is reached. When a force 
remains halted for some time, and in standing camps, the 
hour for duties to mount will be notified in orders. In each 
regiment, battalion, or similar unit, an officer of the day will 
be detailed. In each company an orderly non-commis- 
sioned officer will be appointed. 

(ii) Regimental officers of the day, and orderly non- 
commissioned officers are responsible that orders for the 
preservation of good order, the sanitation, and the internal 
defence of the district are observed. 

(iii) Inlying Pickets. — Inlying pickets are mounted under 
the orders of the commander of the brigade area, when 
required for internal security, or they may be ordered by 
the commander, who appoints the commander of the out- 
posts to act as a reserve to the outposts. In the latter case 
the picket stands to arms one hour before sunrise. Should 
the inlying picket be required to leave an area, its com- 
mander should at once notify the fact to the field officer 
of the day, with a view to a fresh inlying picket being 
mounted. 

(iv) Alarm. — The alarm will be sounded only by order of 
the commander of a brigade area or of superior military 
authority, unless an actual attack is impending when it 
may be sounded on the responsibility of any officer or of 
the commander of a guard. On the alarm sounding, troops 
fully armed and equipped fall in by companies on the 



14 J BILLETS 5 i 

alarm post of their unit, draught animals are to be at once 
harnessed in and pack animals saddled up, and an officer 
from each unit is to be sent for orders to the brigade office. 



Section 14.— Billets. 

1. General Arrangements. — The allotment of billeting 
areas to armies, divisions, brigades, and smaller units are 
made by the staff, arrangements being carried out by the 
quartermaster-general's staff, assisted by the commanders 
of billeting areas. Representatives of units will proceed 
with billeting parties to the localities apportioned to them, 
so far as tactical considerations admit, and take over their 
areas, when they will in turn send back to meet and guide 
their units to their billets'. 

2. Regimental Billeting Party. — A regimental billeting 
party should, if possible, consist of an officer or non- 
commissioned officer, and one rank and file per company, 
etc., for each unit concerned. Before starting for his 
allotted area, each officeror non-commissioned officer should 
receive a statement showing the number of officers, men, 
and horses for whom accommodation and food, if- this is 
to be demanded, is required, and, if possible, the topography 
of the locality should be explained. 

3. On arrival in the locality to be occupied, the officer or 
non-commissioned officer in charge of the party will proceed 
direct to the mayor, chief officer of police, or other official 
holding an equivalent position, to whom the billeting 
demand will be handed, together with any instructions to 
be observed by the inhabitants. The mayor or other 
official will at the same time be notified of the hour at 
which the troops may be expected, and will be requested 
to supply information as to the existence of any infectious 
disease, to designate the house or locality affected, and 



52 BILLETS, CAMPS, AND BIVOUACS [14 

to notify any special precautions to be taken in respect of 
water-supply, sanitation, fire, etc. 

4. If time permits, a billeting order will be prepared by 
the local authority for presentation by the billeting party 
to each inhabitant on whom men and horses are to be 
quartered. This order will show the number of men and 
horses to be received, and whether food and forage is or is 
not to be supplied. 

5. On receipt of the billeting orders, the officer or non- 
commissioned officer in charge of the billeting party will 
issue them in proper proportion to the representative of 
each company, who will be given instructions regarding 
the posting of warnings outside infected buildings, special 
arrangements for watering, etc., and the place to meet the 
officer or non-commissioned officer when the billets have 
been inspected. The men of the party will then proceed 
to the houses and stables allotted to their respective forma- 
tions, will inspect and mark the billets, and will hand the 
billeting orders to occupiers. They will mark clearly with 
chalk on the door the names of officers, the number of men, 
and of horses the building is to hold, and the command — 
e.g., company — to which it is allotted, official abbreviations 
being used. The marks must be removed before marching 
off 

6. In the meantime the officer (or non-commissioned 
officer) will select and mark the position of the regimental 
headquarters, guard-room, alarm - post, . sick inspection 
room, gun and transport parks, etc., and will ascertain the 
most suitable lines for communicating with neighbouring 
units, and the best roads intoand out of the billeting area. 
This completed, he will if possible prepare for the informa- 
tion of the regimental commander a sketch showing the 
allotment of billets to the unit, and giving details regarding 
roads and communications. 

7. On reassembling his men, he will notify them of the 



141 BILLETS 53 

positions 01 the headquarters, guard, etc., and a proportion 
will be despatched to convey this information to companies, 
and to guide them to their billets. In allotting billets, 
regard will be had both to the comfort of the men and the 
interests of the inhabitants. Both sides of a street should 
be allotted to the same unit to prevent confusion in case of 
alarm. Roads and communications must never be blocked. 
Staff offices should be' on main communications and easily 
found. Billets may have to be readjusted after the troops 
have settled into them. 

8. When time is not available for the above procedure, uhe 
troops will be halted outside their billeting areas. Mean- 
while a party from each brigade area will proceed to the 
mayor or other official, to whom a billeting demand will be 
presented, and whose co-operation in the allotment of 
billets will be requested. The local authority will then take 
steps to notify to the inhabitants that troops will be billeted 
on them, and will promulgate any military orders to be 
observed. At the same time the billeting party will 
roughly allot the accommodation, areas being assigned to 
the larger units, and these in their turn allotting certain 
streets or groups of houses to their units. 

9. General Rules in Billets. — (i) Offioers' Rounds. — Officers 
will visit the billets of their men and their horses' stables at 
irregular intervals, at least once by day and once by night. 

(ii) Control of Inhabitants. — If necessary, the inhabitants 
should be disarmed and forbidden to leave their houses after 
a certain hour; the streets should be patrolled to see that 
this order is obeyed. It may be necessary to take hostages 
for their good behaviour. Inhabitants who have leave to 
be out after dark should carry lights. 

(iii) From the moment the advanced billeting parties enter 
a village or farm, precautions must be taken to prevent the 
inhabitants conveying information to the enemy. The 
local telephone system must be at once controlled. 



54 BILLETS, CAMPS, AND BIVOUACS 14 

(iv) All ranks should be warned against talking on military 
matters in the presence of inhabitants, against leaving 
letters or papers about, and of the importance of taking 
every possible precaution against any leakage of informa- 
tion. Military tribunals should be established to deal with 
any infractions by the inhabitants of the orders issued con- 
cerning them, and with any offences committed against the 
troops. 

(v) Liquor, Arms, Fire. — All houses where liquor is obtainable 
must be placed under control. In every house occupied by 
the troops, at least one man must be specially detailed to 
guard the arms. Arms are not to be piled or left outside. 
As a precaution against fire, and also to prevent signalling 
to the enemy by means of lights, directions should be issued 
controlling the use of fires and lights, both by the troops and 
by the inhabitants. -It may sometimes be necessary to 
establish special fire pickets. 

(vi) Defence. — When the enemy is within striking distance, 
the villages in the front line should be prepared for defence 
against surprise, and a portion of the troops in them kept in 
a state of constant readiness, so that the defences may be 
rapidly occupied. As troops in billets are usually dispersed 
over a wide area, an alarm signal should be arranged for use 
in the event of the troops being required to turn out sud- 
denly, 

10. Close Billets. — Close billets are adopted when a 
greater state of readiness is required than is possible in 
ordinary billets. For this reason, tactical considerations 
invariably have precedence over considerations of comfort 
in close billets, and arms and units should never be mixed. 
In allotting close billets, every form of shelter should be fully 
utilized. It should be remembered that a bad billet is 
preferable to the best bivouac. Close ^billets will, normally, 
be used for short periods only, and it is not, therefore, neces- 
sary to consider the interests of the inhabitants to the same 



15) CAMPS AND BIVOUACS 55 

extent as in ordinary billets. Where close billets have to be 
occupied for any length of time, as in the case of sieges, it is 
advisable to remove 'the inhabitants, and accommodate 
them outside the immediate zone of operations. In other 
respects the instructions for billets apply to close billets. 

Section 15. — Camps and Bivouacs. 

1. Site. — The site for a camp or bivouac should be dry, 
and on grass if possible. Steep slopes must be avoided, but 
gentle slopes facilitate drainage. Large woods with under- 
growth, low meadows, the bottoms of narrow valleys, and 
newly-turned soil, are apt to be unhealthy. Clay is usually 
damp. Ravines and watercourses are dangerous sites, as 
a sudden fall of rain may convert them into large streams. 
Sites of old camping-grounds should, if possible, be avoided. 

2. A good water-supply is essential, but considerations of 
safety may necessitate a camp, or bivouac, being placed at 
some distance from it. Other points to be considered are, 
the facilities which a site offers for obtaining shelter, fuel, 
forage and straw 

3. Arrangements at the End of a March. — (i) A staff officer, 
usually accompanied by some mounted police, will be sent 
forward to select, m conjunction with an engineer and a 
medical officer, and with due regard to tactical considera- 
tions, water-supply (Sec. 18), etc., the ground where the 
force is to pass the night. He will make all necessary 
arrangements for the reception of the troops on their 
arrival. 

(ii) When the column arrives within two or three miles of 
its destination, staff officers of brigades, etc., accompanied 
by representatives Of their units, will ride ahead, receive 
instructions concerning 'arrangements for the night, lead 
their units on arrival direct to the ground allotted to them, 
and explain the arrangements to commanders of units. 



5 6 BILLETS, CAMPS. AND BIVOUACS [15 

(in) When ground is allotted, each commander must be 
informed of any localities or depots outside his own area 
on which he may draw for water, fuel, forage, straw, and 
other supplies. Each commander should be informed, also, 
which roads he is at liberty to use, and what special defen- 
sive, police, or sanitary measures he is to take. 

4. Camp Organization and Routine. — Information under 
these heads, applicable to camps for a battalion or smaller 
units, will be found in Chapter VI. of this book and in the 
Appendix. 

5. Bivouacs. — (i) By day infantry pile or ground arms on 
the alarm posts, articles of equipment being laid., by the 
arms. By night men will invariably rest with their arms 
and equipment by them, and may, if necessary, sleep fully 
equipped. 

(ii) Bivou£« Staffers. — When no other materials than earth 
and brushwood are available, a comfortable bivouac for 
twelve men can be formed, in dry weather, by digging a 
shallow circle in the earth, with a diameter of 18 feet of 
thereabouts, and piling up the earth displaced so as to form 
a wall 2 feet or 3 feet high all round the circle excavated. 
The men lie down like the spokes of a wheel in this walled 
hollow, with their feet towards the centre. Branches 0+ 
trees, or brushwood firmly stuck upright into the earthen 
wall, improve the shelter. Other types of bivouac shelters 
are shown in Figs. 13, 14, and 15. 



15] 



BIVOUAC SHELTERS 



..-->» 




Fig. 13.— Two forked sticks are driven into the ground, with a pole 
resting on them. Branches are then laid resting on the pole, 
thick end uppermost, at an angle of about 45 degrees, and 
the screen made good with smaller branches, ferns, etc. A 
hurdle may be supported and treated in a similar way- 




Fig. 14. 



-A waterproof sheet, blanket, or piece of canvas, secured 
by poles and string. 




rfujjz 



WfWTi 




Fig. 15. — A tent d'abri, for four men, formed with two blankets 
or waterproof sheets laced together at the ridge, the remain- 
ing two blankets being available for cover inside. 



CHAPTER V 
SANITATION 

Section 16. — General Remarks. 

1. Definition of Sanitation. — The true definition of 
sanitation means the preservation of health, or, in other 
words, the prevention of disease. This chapter, therefore, 
is not confined to those subjects with which the word sanita- 
tion is usually associated — namely, scavenging, conserv- 
ancy, and the removal of filth and refuse — but also deals 
with general rules for the preservation of health. 

2. The Need Of Sanitation. — The accommodation of troops 
in camps and bivouacs, and in a less degree in billets, is a 
reversion to primitive conditions of life. Under all these 
circumstances, to a greater or less extent, men are unavoid- 
ably crowded together. Experience has shown that disease 
increases among men when they are crowded together. 
Whether the infection is spread through the air, by personal 
contact, by water, by food, by insects, or from latrines, the 
more people there are in a particular area — for example, m 
a barrack-room, billet, or tent — the larger will be the 
number that come within the range of possible infection, and 
the more serious as a rule will be the disease. 

e 3. It is well known that troops spending a short time only 
in any camp are almost always healthy; but the longer a 
camp or bivouac is occupied, the more disease occurs in it. 
When it is recollected that diseases are spread from person 
to person by defective conservancy, personal contact, and 
infected food and water, it is evident that the conditions of 
life in quarters are almost ideal for encouraging their dis- 

58 



16] GENERAL REMARKS 



59 



^semination. To prevent this, the. greatest care and atten- 
tion must be paid to sanitation. Every officer is responsible 
that all orders affecting the health of an army are rigidly 
carried out by the troops under his command. Neglect of 
sanitary precautions inevitably results in great loss of life and 
efficiency. 

4. Study o! Sanitation.— /The study of sanitation and the 
preservation of health ts incumbent on' every officer and 
soldier. The importance of sanitary measures, whereby 
health is preserved, cannot be over-estimated. Successful 
prevention of disease demands the co-operation of every 
individual, whether officer or man, and forms an essential 
part of every scheme designed with that object. The 
sanitary organization of the army is based on the principle 
that the commander of every unit and formation is respon- 
sible for the sanitary condition of all quarters or localities 
occupied by his command, and for taking all measures 
necessary for the preservation of the health of those under 
him. He is also responsible for seeing that each officer and 
soldier observes all sanitary orders, and for the good order 
and cleanliness of that portion of a quarter or locality under 
his charge, irrespective of the period for which the latter 
may be occupied. 

5. It is desirable to emphasize the fact that the sanitary 
control of quarters depends for success on attention to details 
and the exercise of care on the part of individuals. These are 
required not only of the men, but also of the officer; for 
there can be little doubt that the men take their cue from 
the officer. The essential principle of sanitation in quarters, 
as elsewhere, is cleanliness. This state of cleanliness must 
not oniy be maintained while the quarters are occupied, but 
on evacuation the area must be left sweet and tidy, so that 
those coming after may not suffer from a heritage of filth. 
The absence of flies is the surest index of cleanliness, for if 
there is no filth to feed upon flies will not be present. 



60 SANITATION [17 

6. Training of Cadets. — (i) It is cleat from the foregoing 
paragraphs that knowledge oi the laws of hygiene and 
sanitation, and practice in applying them to various con- 
ditions, is 1 an important part of the training of both officers 
and men. These subjects therefore should form part of the 
training of cadet officers and cadets, and the conditions of 
life in camps and billets afford a good opportunity for carry- 
ing out practical training in them. This instruction should 
not be confined to observing the rules of hygiene and sanita- 
tion, but should include lectures on these subjects, given, if 
possible, by the medical officer attache^ to the corps. In all 
well-trained corps sanitation and hygiene will, of course, 
form part of the annual course of instruction, and not be 
reserved as special subjects for training in camps and billets. 

(ii) Special Classes and Examination. — Owing to the vital 
importance Of these subjects, special classes of instruction in 
hygiene and sanitation should be arranged for cadets who 
are attending camp for the first time, and their practical 
knowledge should be tested--by oral or written examinations 
before they are allowed to attend camp % 

Section 17.— Clothing and Equipment. 

i. Clothing. — Clothing should.be adapted to the tem- 
perature, and when instruction involves physical exertion 
the garments worn should be light, and not too tight in 
any part. Whenever possible, clothing which has become 
saturated with perspiration after hard exercise or in hot 
weather, or which has become wet from rain, should be 
changed. This is especially important with regard to 
socks and underclothing. Clothing worn by day should not 
be worn by night. 

2. Cleaning and Care of Clothes.— Clothes should be 
brushed regularly to remove dust,, mud, and dirt. Both 
clothes and boots should be cleaned outside tents and outside j 



17J 



CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 



61 



rooms in billets when possible. Kits may with* advantage 
be aired and spread out in the sun periodically with bedding 
when possible. Underclothing should be changed at least 
once a week, and more frequently in hot weather. If damp 
from perspiration, it should be hung up to air or dried before 
being folded up. Clothes should never be folded up and 
put away if they are damp or dirty. Directions for repair- 
ing and washing garments, removing stains, and for darning 
socks, will. be found in the Appendix. 

3. Drying Clothes. — (i) In the absence of sun or wind, 
clothes may be dried in camp by the following methods: 



Uprights to which i 
lashed crossbars 



T 



\: 




\ X [K^ ^ x x ijv*V x 



Braziers 

Fig. 16.— Frame for drying Clothas In Camp. 



Pitch as large a tent as is available ; dig one or more holes, 
some 2 feet deep and 3 feet in diameter, within the tent, 
sufficiently far from the poles and canvas to minimize the 
risk of fire. Line the holes with fairly large stones, and 
carry them up so as to make parapets round the hole, to a 
convenient height. If a fire be lighted in the hole and care- 
fully tended, the stones will soon radiate a good deal of heat. 
The wet clothing should be hung round the hole as well as 
the appliances on the spot will allow, and the tent shut up. 



02 SANITATION [17 

In place of a tent, a rough shelter can be built, or use made 
of some outhouse on a farm. 

(ii) An alternative plan is to rig up a simple framework, 
as shown in Fig. 16, by means of ropes, cords, or wire. This 
should be erected either within a large tent or under some 
shelter, and one or more braziers, improvised from buckets 
or tins, full of glowing coke or charcoal, placed at suitable 
intervals near to the wet clothing. 

4. Blankets and Bedding. — Blankets and bedding very 
quickly become dirty under the conditions of life in camps 
and billets. These articles retain infection for considerable 
periods. Their regular and efficient washing is therefore 
very important. A rule should be made that blankets 
and bedding- brought to camp by cadets should be clean, 
md these articles should be exposed to the sun and ail 
whenever possible, both in camps ancl billets, for these 
natural forces are good disinfectants. A convenient time 
for airing bedding is when the tents are ventilated every 
morning (para. 5). In -cases of infectious disease, articles 
of bedding and clothing which are loaned by Government 
to cadet corps should not be returned to store until disin- 
fected; but, as it is sometimes not possible until a cadet 
has been in the sick-bay for a few days to tell whether 
the disease is an infectious one, the clothing of all cadets 
admitted to the sick-bay should be kept separate until it 
is known that they do not require disinfection. 

5, Ventilation in Tents. — la the bell tent ventilation is 
provided by three small openings at the top. These, how- 
ever, are not sufficient to change the air in the tent suffi- 
ciently often to keep it piire. It must be remembered that 
a bell tent with its full complement of fifteen men allows 
only' 12 square feet and 32 cubic feet for each man, against 
60 square feet arid 600 cubic feet of space which he is 
allowed in barracks. Thus, tents must be kept as well 
ventilated as possible. Tent-flies are to be looped up the 



17] CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 63 

first thing every morning — in wet weather on the leeward 
side only. 

6. Striking Tents. — In a standing camp tents will be 
struck periodically, and the ground underneath well swept 
and left exposed for some hours at least, the tents being 
eventually replaced on their former sites. Tents should 
never be pitched for occupation in the intervals of ground 
between these sites. 

7. Food in Tents. — Whenever it can be avoided, food 
should not be eaten in the tents, for fragments always 
collect on the ground, where they decompose and attra t 



8. Cleansing Water-Bottles. — It is the duty of officers to 
exercise a supervision over the cleanliness of water-bottles. 
Washing out with boiling or very hot water is the most 
rational method of cleansing the bottles, but on field service 
this may be impracticable. For similar reasons, the use of 
permanganate of potash or other chemical is not always a 
practical procedure. The next best thing to do is to fill 
the bottles with very hot tea at least once a week, and 
leave this hot liquid in the bottle for at least an hour ; but 
to be of any use the tea must be poured into the bottles in 
as near a condition of boiling as possible. 

9. The practice of attempting to scour out the inside of a 
bottle by placing stones, sand, or graveL in it, and then 
shaking, followed by washing out with water, should be 
discouraged ; the sand or stones are usually dirty, and the 
last state of the water-bottle will be worst than the first. 
In circumstances where there is an ample supply of clean 
water, the ordinary washing out with three or four fillings 
of this water is a reliable procedure, but this and similar 
methods must be carried out under intelligent supervision. 
Water should never be kept in the bottles when the water-* 
bottle is not in daily use. 



04 SANITATION (18 

Section 18. — Water, Food, and Milk. 

1. Daily Allowance of Water. — The following information 
will guide officers in estimating the minimum quantity 
of drinking water which will be required daily for their 
commands. A man, to make up the loss of fluid from the 
body, requires from 3^ to 5 pints of water daily, of which 
about one- third is contained in solid food. Half a gallon, 
therefore, will be required for drinking, and the same 
amount for cooking — that is to say, a gallon a head should 
be the daily allowance for men. In tropical countries 
this amount will -not be sufficient, and may be increased. 

2. Sources and Protection of Water. — Water lends itself 
readily as a medium for carrying various dangerous dis- 
eases. The water-supply of camps, therefore, must be the 
subject of the strictest attention and care. Pure water is 
usually procurable locally in Great Britain, but occasionally 
it may have to be carried from a distance. It may be drawn 
from wells, springs, streams, rivers, lakes, ponds, or rain- 
water tanks. In all these cases it may be polluted at its 
source, during carriage, during temporary storage, and 
during its distribution in cooking-pots, water-bottles, jugs, 
etc. 

3. Water-Supply. — The following general rules are laid 
down for the guidance of officers in regard to water-supply : 

(i) From whatever source the water is drawn, it must 
be protected from contamination. 

(ii) Drinking must not be allowed from the taps, rims, 
or spouts, of any drinking-water receptacle. 

(iii) Marking Water-Supply with Coloured Flags and Notice Boards. 
Where more than one source of supply is to be used, 
the best should be set apart, for drinking and cooking 
water, and marked with white flags. Watering-places 
for animals must be marked with blue flags, and 
washing and bathing places with red flags. Alternatively, 



18J WATER, FOOD, AND MILK 65 

the object for which the water is to be used may be denoted 
clearly on notice boards. Washing must never be allowed 
at springs or wells used for drinking purposes, 

4. Stand-Pipes from which water can be drawn from a 
pure source provide the best water-supply. 

5. Rainwater. — Rainwater is seldom used in the army 
for domestic purposes. The uncertainty of the rainfall 
and the difficulty of collecting it free from impurities, 
except from specially-prepared surfaces, makes it quite 
unsuitable unless other sources are not available. 

6. Wells. — Artesian or deep wells are generally protected, 
and are probably safe sources. Wells are generally divided 
into two classes, shallow and deep, a shallow well being 
one which taps the subsoil or ground water above the 
highest impermeable stratum ; a deep well, one sunk through 
an impervious stratum to reach water held up by a deeper 
impervious layer, 

7. Contamination may reach wells and springs by being 
washed or dropped into them from the surface, or it may 
reach them through the subsoil; henee any source of con- 
tamination on the area drained by them is a possible 
danger. As in other cases, it is human contamination that 
is to be feared, and the nearer this is the greater the danger. 

8. The actual distance or area through which contamin- 
ating material can travel or spread in the subsoil water 
varies within wide limits with the nature of the soil, and, 
in the case of wells, with the amount of water drawn from 
them ; but it is never safe to regard this area, in the case of 
wells, as less than a circle 25 yards in diameter. In very 
porous or fissured ground it may be more. The soil acts as a 
filter, and the number of bacteria found in it diminishes the 
further one gets from the surface, very few being found at 
a depth of 5 feet ; and the further water travels through the 
soil, the more complete is the filtration. It is obvious, 
then, that the greater the distance from .any source of con- 



66 SANITATION [18 

tamination, the less the danger ; and that deep wells, the 
water of which must have come from some distance, are 
less likely to be contaminated than shallow wells. 

9. In Europe, among the commonest sources of contam- 
ination of wells are cesspits and midden closets, which are 
holes sunk in the ground to receive sewage. Besides these, 
any foul matter on the ground round a well or spring may 
get into the water by soakage through the soil. All wells 
and springs, unless properly protected and closed, are 
liable to pollution by foul surface water flowing directly 
into them. Another very common danger is the use of 
any casual vessel for drawing water. Such vessels, if corning! 
from dwellings in which there are cases of cholera, enteric 
fever, dysentery, or diarrhoea, can. easily infect the water 
with the germs of these diseases. 

10. All wells should be protected by a fence enclosing 
an area not less than 25 yards in diameter. In the case of 
springs on a slope, protection need be only at the sides and 
above. To protect a well from contamination — (a) the 
mouth should be one or two feet above the level of the 
ground, and the ground round the mouth should be sloped 
outwards; (b) if the well is a small one, the mouth should 
be closed with a tightly-fitting cover with a manhole in it ; 
and (c) a pump should be provided at the side, and not 
directly over the well, the water being pumped to a tank 
outside the fenced area, and drawn off by taps. 

11. Surface Water. — The suitability of surface water can 
best be judged by the amount and proximity of any pos- 
sible sources of human contamination on the land which 
drains towards them. Small collections of water, such as 
ponds and streams in inhabited places, are never fit for 
drinking purposes without purification, as any contamina- 
tion which they contain is likely to be of recent origin, and 
will be but little diluted. Lakes of large size generally 
provide a safe water, for any contamination which they 



18 1 WATER 67 

receive is much diluted. Contamination by the troops 
themselves must be particularly guarded agamst, special 
care being taken that the drainage of latrines, urinals, 
washing-places, trenches in which night-soil or refuse are 
-buried, and of animal lines, does not flow into the lake. 

12. If Running Water is not available, a rough barbed- 
wire fence or some other form of fencing should be placed 
round the water-supply, to keep out animals, which should 
in this case be watered by bucket or nosebag. 

13. When Ponds, Tanks, or Lakes, are used as sources of 
water-supply, the place selected for drawing drinking and 
cooking water should be where it is least likely to be con- 
taminated, and preferably where there is a good depth of 
water, so that mud will not be stirred up. Another spot 
will be set apart for watering animals. Bathing and wash- 
ing of any description in the lake or pond must be prevented. 
Water for these purposes must be taken away in empty 
biscuit tins or other receptacles to selected places, from 
which the drainage will not flow back to the source. 

14. Rivers vary enormously in the purity of their water. 
This can best be judged of by the character of the country 
through which they flow, and by their size. It may safely 
be said that no river water can be considered safe for at 
least five or six miles below any town the drainage of 
which enters it. When it is necessary to use such watei 
it should be purified in some way 

15. Streams. — If water is obtained from a stream, horses 
will be watered below the place where troops obtain their 
drinking water, but above bathing and washing places. 
Patrolling by mounted men will often be necessary for some 
distance above the spot where the drinking water is drawn . 
The spot selected for drawing water for drinking and 
cooking purposes should be well above the camp. It 
should be at a place where the current is good and the 
depth considerable, and the same precautions should be 



68 SANITATION [18 

adopted for marking and safeguarding it as have already 
been described A place lower down stream will be marked 
off for watermg animals, and another still farther down 
for ablution and washing of clothes. If other troops are 
using the river lower down, special arrangements for 
washing and watering animals away from the river, similar 
to those described for ponds and lakes, are often necessary. 

16. Whatever the source of water-supply, if many 
animals have to be watered and the frontage is small, hours 
for watering and the route to and from watering-places 
will be laid down for each unit. Three to five minutes 
may be taken as the average time for watering an animal. 

17. The water from small streams must be collected as 
near their source as possible. If the valley forming the 
collecting area is a small one, the part above the water- 
supply should be put out of bounds, and animals kept from 
grazing on it. In all cases the stream should be examined 
as high up as possible to discover an} possible sources of 
pollution, and any carcasses or filth should be cleared 
from the collecting area and stream. 

18. If the stream is very small, a dam should be made, 
and the water led over a weir into vessels or pumped out 
from above the dam. When dippers are used there is 
much danger of contaminating the water. The dipper is 
usually left on the muddy soil by the side of the dam, and 
may thus pollute the water with dirt from men and animals. 

19. When drinking water is obtained from a running 
stream, no washing should be allowed above the place 
where the drmking water is drawn. 

20. Springs. — Springs frequently issue from the side of a 
hill, and the flow of water is not very rapid. The water 
usually comes from a number of crevices, and the ground 
for some yards round should be fenced off, and a basin cut 
in the face of the hill to collect the water, which may then 
be led into vessels by means of an extemporized spout. 



18 " WATER 69 

21. Springs should be protected in a similar way to wells. 
The water from a spring should be conducted directly into 
a closed tank, and drawn off by taps. Failing this or some 
similar improvised arrangement, a spout or spouts should 
be arranged so as to obtain the water from the spring. In 
no case should it be collected in open vessels or in hollows 
scooped out of the ground, for if this is done the water is cer- 
tain to be fouled either by drainage from above or by persons, 
who come to draw water, washing in it or dipping infected 
vessels into it. If for want of 'time or for other reason 
springs and wells cannot be adequately protected, a special 
water party should be detailed to fill the vessels, all other 
persons being kept at a distance. 

22. Distribution of Water. — Water may be contaminated 
not only at its source, but during distribution or storage. 
Water should never be distributed through camps in open 
channels. In quarters, water is distributed in carts, iron 
tanks, and barrels, in all of which dust and dirt are liable 
to accumulate. Water-carts, tanks, and barrels, must be 
frequently cleaned and periodically disinfected. To enable 
this to be done, they must have sufficiently large openings 
to aliow of every part being reached, and these openings 
must have dust-proof covers. 

23. Receptacles for storing Water. — Tanks or vessels in 
which drinking water is stored should be raised off the 
ground and provided with taps. In barracks, tanks used 
by troops will be periodically cleaned out. 

24. Cleaning Receptacles. — All receptacles in which water 
is distributed or stored must be thoroughly cleansed at 
frequent intervals. The following directions for cleansing 
vessels in which drinking water is stored are taken from the 
Field Service Pocket-Book : Use mixture of 16 grains of per- 
manganate of potash to 1 gallon of water, or, roughly, 
1 teaspoonful to 3 gallons. If after rinsing the mixture 
comes out discoloured, it shows cleansing was necessary. 



7 o SANITATION £18 

The process of rinsing should be repeated till the mixture 
comes out with pink colour not destroyed. 

25. Both potassium permanganate and chlorinated lime, 
being relatively non -poisonous, are very useful for disin- 
fecting tanks, water-carts, or other receptacles, when they 
have contained water which is suspected of being contami- 
nated. Sufficient should be added to make a solution of 
I in 500 of permanganate or 1 in 1,000 of chlorinated lime ; 
every part of the interior should be thoroughly wetted with 
the solution, and after an hour the water may be run to 
waste. 

26. Purification of Water. — Different methods of purify- 
ing water and the description of various kinds of niters 
will be found in Chapter V. of the Manual of Elementary 
Military* Hygiene (191 2). If necessary, measures for the 
purification of water must be taken in camps and billets, 
under the advice and supervision of the medical officer 
or of a doctor attached to cadet corps. A simple and effec- 
tive method of purifying water is to boil it. Care, however, 
must be taken to see that it is subsequently kept in clean 
receptacles, and protected from contamination by dust or 
in any other way while it is being stored or distributed for 
the purpose of drinking or cooking. 

27. Inspection of Food (Sec. 38). — Both disease and 
poison may be "conveyed into the system of human beings 
by food if. it is not quite wholesome or fresh. The means 
of prevention are to insure that food has come from 
a reliable source, and to inspect it carefully for any signs 
of decomposition. Although cooking is a safeguard against 
those forms of food-poisoning in which bacteria are the 
cause, it is not a certain one, for the temperature in the 
middle of a joint while being cooked is not always high 
enough to kill the bacteria, besides which cooking will 
not destroy the poisons already formed in the meat, and 
the bacteria may even have got into it after cooking. 



18] FOOD 71 

28. Tinned Foods. — Tinned food may be especially 
dangerous to health, and needs careful inspection. In 
examining tinned foods, it should always be noted if the 
tin is bulged or blown; this is the result of gases formed 
by putrefaction of the contents. The processes by which 
most tinned provisions are prepared- involve one, or some- 
times two, holes in the tin; if there are three holes in it, it 
is an indication that putrefaction has occurred, and a third 
perforation has been made to allow the gas to escape. 
The third hole is often near the rim, and can be felt under 
the label. A fresh-looking label does not prove that the 
contents are necessarily fresh. Tins are readily perforated 
by rust, especially if crushed and exposed to the action of 
sea-water. Such tins should always be looked upon with 
suspicion. 

29. Contamination 0! Food. — Diseases such as enteric 
fever, dysentery, cholera, and diarrhoea, may be trans- 
mitted by means of food contaminated by water, flies, dust, 
or infected persons. Uncooked foods, generally speaking, 
are more dangerous than cooked. The preventive measures 
consist of the protection of food from any of these forms 
of contamination before, during, and after preparation. 
To give effect to these measures, the strictest supervision 
over food-supplies is necessary, not only over those supplied 
as part of the ration, but also those produced in bakeries, 
dairies, and mineral-water factories, those sold in can- 
teens or refreshment tents, or supplied by contractors or 
hawkers. 

30. Rules for preventing Contamination of Food.— The 
following rules for preventing the contamination of food 
should be observed in camps and billets . 

(i) Food should not be stored, kept, or eaten, in tents or 
rooms in billets. If this for any reasonjs temporarily un- 
avoidable, it should be placed in a covered jar, tin box, or 
other receptacle. 



72 SANITATION [18 

(ii) The hands and clothes of all persons who handle 
food or cooking utensils should be scrupulously clean. 

(iii) All bread and meat stores should be clean, well 
ventilated, and inaccessible to flies. 

(iv) Kitchens and their fittings, such as tables, shelves, 
as well as cooking utensils, should be kept clean and tidy. 

(v) Flies, which carry minute portions of filth and germs 
on their feet, contaminating all they touch, should as far 
as possible be prevented from gaining 1 access to kitchens. 
They breed only in filth, and where there are many flies it 
is a certain sign that there is -filth and dirt in the near neigh- 
bourhood. 

(vi) Cooks and their assistants must be personally clean, 
and wear clean, washable overclothing. 

(yii) Anyone recently recovering from any infectious 
disease, more especially from enteric fever, should not be 
allowed to act as cooks, mess-orderlies, or in any capacity 
connected with the serving of food. 

31. Milk. — Milk, if contaminated, is particularly dan- 
gerous to health, as it is an excellent culture medium for 
bacteria, and may convey various serious diseases. The 
commonest ways in which milk is contaminated are from 
contact with infected persons employed in dairies, from 
infected water used either for cleaning dairy utensils or 
for adulterating milk, and by flies. The preventive 
measures consist of insuring that milk comes from a reliable 
source, that it is stored in clean receptacles, and carefully 
protected from dust, flies, and as far as possible from any 
contact with persons handling it during storage and dis- 
tribution. Milk may be sterilized and rendered safe by 
being boiled. Care, however,, must be taken, as in the case 
of water purified by boiling, to see that the milk is not 
subsequently contaminated in any way. 



19] DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA 73- 

Section 19. — Disposal of Excreta. 

1. General Remarks. — The proper disposal of excreta 
is of vital importance to health, and pfesents fewer 
difficulties than might be expected. It has been pointed 
out that, as soon as a unit occupies the bivouac or 
camp site selected for it, it is the duty of the sanitary 
personnel to prepare latrines and urinals without delay in 
the area allotted for these places. If the construction of 
latrines is unavoidably delayed, selected places should be 
marked off for the reception of excreta, to which men 
should be directed to go. At the earliest opportunity all 
excrement so deposited must be buried or covered with 
earth by the sanitary personnel. 

2. Latrines. — Latrines, as already stated, should be located 
to leeward of the bivouac or camp, and in such a position 
that no possible fouling of the water-supply can result. 
The assistance of the sanitary officer, or such other officer 
of the medical service as may be exercising sanitary super- 
vision of the command, should be obtained when the exact 
position of these places is being selected. Latrines and 
urinals should be as far removed from the part occupied 
by the men as is compatible with convenience — under 
ordinary conditions this may be put at 100 yards. The 
latrines must be placed as far as possible away from the 
kitchens and other places where food is prepared or stored. 
They must never be placed in or near gullies which, when it 
rains, discharge into the water-supply, nor in any situation 
the drainage or nitration from which may possibly reach, 
and So pollute, the water-supply. 

3. Accommodation. — The extent of latrine accommoda- 
tion provided will vary according to whether the area is for 
temporary or permanent occupation. For ordinary camps 
it should be 5 per cent. These figures may be taken to 
represent either yards or actual seats, according to circum- 



74 SANITATION [19 

stances. The multiplication of latrines is undesirable, as 
one or two fairly large latrines are easier of control than 
several smaller ones^and the pollution of the soil is more 
localized. 

4. Types ol Latrines. — For temporary quarters the usual 
latrine is a trench with or without a seat. These trenches 
may be either long and deep. or short and shallow. The 
latter are always preferable, but the former may be required 
if there is not enough ground for shallow trenches, as, for 
example, when the minimum camp space has to be occupied 
for several days, or when additional latrine accommodation 
is required in billets, and space is restricted. 

5. Long and Deep Trenches. — (i) If the long and deep 
trench system be used, a trench 5 yar^s long, 3 feet deep, and 
16 inches wide, is the necessary allowance for each hundred 
men. The greatest care should be taken to prevent the 
water-supply being fouled by these trenches, either directly 
by soakage, or indirectly by surface water, in wet weather, 
flowing from the trench or its immediate neighbourhood. 
With this system the contents of latrine trenches should be 
covered with 2 inches of dry earth daily. The use of 
kerosene-oil and lime will assist in keeping flies away 

(ii) Disadvantages. — The great disadvantage about latrines 
of this kind is the fact that the front edge of the trench soon 
gets wetted with urine, and the front of the latrine rapidly 
becomes a urine-sodden quagmire, the mud from which gets 
carried back into the lines or tents on the men's boots, 
which may give rise to the danger of infection 

6. Short and Shallow Trenches. — (i) This system when- 
ever possible should be adopted in preference to the long 
and deep trench. It consists of a series of short parallel 
trenches, across which the user straddles, and readily directs 
both solid and liquid excreta clear into the cavity without 
soiling the sides. Each trench on the short and shallow 
system should be 3 feet long, 1 foot deep, and t foot wide, 



19] DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA * 75 

and the interspace between these trenches not more than 
3 feet — preferably 2\ feet, if the nature of the soil permits — 
so as to preclude the men using the trench otherwise than 
in the straddling attitude. The interspace of i\ feet is 
ample when the soil is firm, and allows plenty of room for 
another trench to be dug in it. A 3-foot interspace gives 
more room between trenches, but entails a longer frontage 
and a correspondingly greater length of screen. In stiff clay 
the interspace cannot be used on the second day, as the 
urine, not being able to soak away, keeps the ground soft. 
It may generally be used a week later if necessary. 

(ii) Advantages. — These short trenches are far cleaner than 
the long type, they entail less labour to dig, and are more 
efficiently filled up and renewed. If available, a seat in the 
form of a stout pole can be laid at right angles to the 
trenches, supported on forked uprights. A back-r^st may 
be formed by a similar pole, but is often omitted. 

(iii) Number. — It is usual to allow five short and~shallow 
trenches for every hundred men ; but when the numbers 
of men are 500 or upwards, 3 per cent, of trenches suffice — 
that is, 500 men need no more than fifteen trenches. As 
a rule a trench lasts only one day. A trench can be made 
to last longer if the contents, which tend to get heaped up 
in the centre, are levelled off, and if the earth used for 
covering the excreta be finely broken up. 

(iv) Method §f Construction. — The method of laying out 
these short and shallow trenches will be gathered from 
Figs. 17 and 18. Supposing the number of men for whom 
latrine trenches are required is 200, and the probable length 
of occupation is seven days, for this small number we must 
allow 5 per cent., or ten trenches daily. The frontage in 
yards required daily may be taken to be six times the 
number of hundreds of men present — that is, 200 men 
will need 12 yards of latrine frontage. The depth for 
latrine area is two-thirds the number of days' stay. In this 



SANITATION [19 

case, the occupation being only seven days, the required 
depth will be two- thirds of seven, or 4 to 5 yards. 

(v) Next, suppose B (Pig. 17) is the base line of the camp, 
measure off 20 yards at right angles to B, and drive in a peg 
at C. From C take the line CD parallel to the. base of the 
camp, and 12 yards long. This line CD equals the line of 
the first row of trenches. From C, along CD, measure off 
1 loot and 2^-foot spaces alternately, marking the spots 
with* a spade till there are ten i-foot spaces. From C 
measure 3 ieet, CE. From E, and parallel to CD, mark 



fflBBSBSQsasflSHiiaHBSBBae 



20ydi 



Base line 



Fig. 17.— Latrine Trenches. 



- * . • » * . 

£3 *—3 c=o e=3 e=a <=s c=> c~r> e=>Sods 

©#©©£&© (3) © ®Earth 

Waem S B S g g g g»-t 

Papers 



Papers 

Fig. 18.— Latrine Trenches. 



19 j DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA 77 

off alternate spaces as before, and join up. This outlines 
the first row of trenches. Next remove the upper sod of 
each trench, in one piece as far as possible, and put it about 
3 feet behind the trench (Fig. 18). Excavate the trenches 
till they are 1 foot deep, keeping the sides vertical, and 
placing the excavated earth immediately behind the 
trenches, between it and the sod. This earth must be finely 
broken up. 

7. Screens. — The latrines should, if possible, be surrounded 
with a canvas screen, the back being 3 feet behind, and the 
fore-part at least 6 feet in front, of the trenches, with an 
entrance in the centre of the front having a 6-foot overlap 
(Fig.. 18). The length of screening necessary for 1,000 
men, on a 5 per cent, basis will be 130 yards; if twenty-five 
trenches are used, they will require 70 yards. 

8. Daily Arrangement. — (i) On the second day fill in the 
trenches with the remaining excavated earth, replace the 
sods, tread and beat down firmly. Dig the second day's 
trenches in the interspaces of the first row. On the third 
day dig a row of trenches similar to and parallel with the 
first row, and 1 foot in front of them. Move the screening 
forward so as to surround them properly. Repeat the con- 
struction of trenches on the subsequent days in a precisely 
similar manner. 

(ii) Drainage. — After the latrine has been prepared, exam- 
ine the slope of the ground, and if necessary dig a shallow 
drain to divert surface water from the trenches, taking care 
that it does not flow on to the ground in front of the trenches 
which will have to be used later on. This precaution applies 
also to urinals 

9. Administration of Latrines. — The proper administra- 
tion of the latrine system is a most important factor in the 
preservation of the health of men living in quarters. 
There is one rule for the successful working of these places, 
and that »s that all excreta must be covered up as soon as 



78 SANITATION [19 

possible with earth, not only for mere purposes of deodoriza- 
tion, but to preclude the access to it of flies, which are one 
of the chief means of conveying the germs associated with 
this filth to men and their food. In bivouacs or camps, 
where the ordinary trench latrine only exists, a satisfactory 
solution is not an easy matter. In the first place, the 
available soil is inconveniently placed, the provision of a 
sufficiency of spades or scoops is not always practicable, and 
the surroundings of the place conduce to hurry on the part 
of the individual. 

10. Inspection. — The remedy lies in educating the men 
to realize the necessity for covering up their own excreta 
with earth, and in placing a sanitary patrol, drawn from 
the unit as a whole, over the latrines, with orders to inspect 
them at short intervals, and see that a sufficient quantity 
of earth is being used. The condition of all latrines should 
be verified personally by the orderly officer of the day at 
least once during each twenty-four hours. 

11. Deodorization. — For covering the deposited excreta 
with earth, some land of implement, such as a spade, scoop, 
empty tin, or tin-lid, should when possible be provided 
near each trench. Kicking the earth in with the foot is 
certain to be a failure, and should be discouraged. 

12. Precautions on Disuse. — As soon as the latrine 
trenches have been filled in to within 6 inches of the ground- 
level their use should be discontinued, earth thrown in, and 
the turf or sods replaced. On the abandonment of a camp 
or bivouac all latrine trenches must be filled in, and the site 
marked with the letter L, made with staves or other 
suitable means, 

13. Removal System. — At some large camping-grounds 
contracts for the removal of soil are made, and the system 
known as the " removal system " is carried out. The 
Government supply buckets, and the contractor removes 
the soil and supplies dry earth, which must invariably be 



191 DISPOSAL OF EXCRETA 79 

used. No trenches are dug when the removal system is 
carried out. 

14. Urinals. — (i) Urine may spread infection. Men are on 
no account to urinate elsewhere than in the latrine trenches, 
or in urinals or pits set apart for the purpose. For day use 
these urinals are best placed adjacent to the latrine trenches, 
and within' the screen, if supplied. Given a reasonably 
absorbent soil the urine soon disappears; but if this is not the 
case care must be taken to make supplementary pits. In 
any case, the urine-sodden soil must be covered at least 
three times a day with clean dry earth to protect it from. 
flies. In all bivouacs and camps where receptacles are not 
provided, pits or trenches must be dug for the purposes of 
urination. 

(i'i) For night use, when urine-tubs of some sort cannot be 
provided, or when the day urine-pits are some distance 
from the tents or sleeping-places, it may be necessary to dig 
shallow urine-pits near the cadets' lines into which they 
can micturate at night ; but this practice should be resorted 
,to as rarely as possible, and the pits must be carefully filled 
in at dawn. Urine-tubs can easily be extemporized from 
empty biscuit or oil tins, which may with advantage be 
partly filled with grass, sawdust, earth, or any other 
absorbent material. These tins should be mounted on 
heaps of earth or stones on boxes, or on rough wooden 
trestles, to reduce to a minimum all chance of splashing or 
spilling. 

15. Camp Urinals. — The best type of camp urinal takes 
the form of one or two shallow trenches, at least 2 feet wide 
leading into a pit filled with large stones, the trenches being 
for urinating into, and the pit to take the excess which fails 
to soak into the soil. Roughly, two trenches, each 8 feet 
long, will suffice for a battalion of full strength. The 
trenches should have a fall of i inch to the foot. The catch- 
pit will vary in depth and size according to the soil and the 



8o 



SANITATION 



il9 



number of men using the trenches — one 3 feet deep and 
S feet in diameter in a moderately porous soil should suffice 
for 800 to 1,000 men. Fig. 19 shows an example of one 
of these urinals. The trenches will" last about two days, 
and the pit some eight days. When foul, new trenches can 
be dug as radii from the pit, and the old ones filled in. If 
feasible, the pit should be screened off to prevent men 



Opening 



J 




Fig. 19.— Plan of Camp Urinal. 



actually micturating into it. The ground around a urinal 
should be burnt when another has to be dug or the quarters 
evacuated. 

16. General Precautions. — Well-managed latrines and 
urinals in both camps and billets should be devoid of smell 
and free from flies, even in warm weather. The presence 
of flies in these places is a sure sign that something is wrong. 
All men engaged in the handling of urine-tubs, or in the care 
and cleaning of urinals, closets, or latrines, must remember 
that they are handling dangerous material capable of giving 
infection to either themselves or others, often both. To 
reduce these risks to the lowest point, men engaged on these 
duties should carefully wash their hands immediately on. 



20 1 KITCHENS 81 

completion of the work, and certainly before they handle 
food. No men employed in cook-houses or as mess-orderlies 
should ever be allowed to have anything to do with the removal 
of urine-tubs, or with the care and cleansing of urinals or 
latrines. 



Section 20. J — Kitchens. 

1. Kitchens should be roped off, and no unauthorized 
person allowed to enter them. These places require con- 
stant supervision to insure the removal of remains of food 
and greasy water without delay. The most important 
details which need attention are — (1) That the kitchens and 
washing-places be so located as to be handy for water, but 
remote from latrines, urine-pits, or other receptacles for 
refuse and garbage; (2) that all sullage water be made to 
pass readily away. 

2. Soakage-Pits. — The latter *will usually be effected by 
passage into soakage-pits, or, if this does not suffice, by 
suitable trenches. This waste water is greasy, and if allowed 
to pass directly on to the soil soon makes a felt-like scum, 
which not only impedes the soaking in of the water, but also 
attracts flies. A good plan is to fill the reception-pits or 
the upper ends of the drainage channels with coarse brush- 
wood, bracken, or gorse, which catches and holds the grease 
and other 'organic solids, allowing the clearer liquid to run 
freely away into a soakage-pit, the earth at the bottom of 
which has been loosened by a pick (Fig. 20). 

3. Grease-Traps. — An alternative plan is the following: 
Take two large biscuit-tins, and place one inside the other, 
the inner one resting on two or three stones, so as to leave 
a space between it and the outer one (Fig. 21). The inner 
one serves as a coarse strainer, and the outer to direct the 
water over and into a small pit filled with grass, heather, 
or brushwood, which acts as a grease-trap. From this small 



82 



SANITATION 



20 



pit cut a shallow trench leading to a large soakage-pit. 
The lower tin can be given a spout, conveniently made by 
cutting an inverted U- or V-shaped flap from one of the 
sides, turning down, and rounding off. 




Fig. 20.— Grease-Trap for Camps. 



Perforated by smalt nail 
Spout 




A 



Grease trap' small pit filled with furze 
4T-*- Drain 

Fie. £1.— Grease-Trap for Camps. Inset shows Method of Cutting 
Spout. 




4. A modification of the foregoing can be made by turning 
a box upside down over the pit or grease-trap, and cutting 
a hole in the bottom, into which is fitted a piece of perforated 



20] 



KITCHENS 



83 



tin (Fig. 22). In all cases the furze,. grass, or brushwood, 
used to catch the grease must be burnt and renewed daily. 
5. Cleaning Utensils. — At each kitchen or mess there 
should be a place provided for cleaning up utensils. This 
should have a table, or boxes to serve as a table, a straining- 
pit, a sufficiency of clean cloths, and a plentiful supply of 
hot water. If sand is used for cleaning vessels, it should 
previously be baked over a fire, and kept in a tin or box near 
the cleaning bench. Ashes from a wood -fire may be used 

Perforated tin 



Wood box 
Grease trap 




Fig. 22. — Grease-Trap for Camps. 

in place of sand. The whole process should be supervised 
by one of the sanitary personnel 

6. A sufficiency of cloths for washing up should be pro- 
vided, and all those used in the cook-house or sculleries 
should he washed daily and dried. All dishes, knives, and 
other utensils, used at meal-times or for food storage should 
be cleaned on a table, and not placed on the floor or taken 
to outside taps. For scouring tea-cans, etc., clean bath- 
brick kept in a tin for the purpose should be used. The use- 
of casually collected sand should be forbidden. 



84 SANITATION 21 



Section 21.— Disposal of Refuse. 

1. Receptacles. — In the absence of metal receptacles, 
such as covered dust-bins, dry refuse may be put in sacks 
hung on posts at the end of the lines; while kitchen garbage 
can be collected in tubs, barrels, or boxes, raised on stands 
close to the cooking-places. If it can be avoided, solid and 
liquid refuse should not be mixed. 

2. Place and Methods of Disposal. — The final disposal of 
kitchen garbage and camp refuse is an important matter. 
The location of the place should always be outside the 
inhabited area, to leeward of the prevailing wind, and 
remote from the source of water-supply. There are two 
possible methods of dealing with this refuse — burial and 
burning. The former is suitable where the amount of 
material to be disposed of is not excessive; but when much 
refuse is present, the labour necessary to dig sufficiently 
large pits is almost prohibitive. In this case as much as 
possible should be destroyed by fire, and what is not burned 
must be buried 

3. Removing Refuse. — Carts or other vehicles used for 
the removal of refuse should be designed so as to prevent 
any escape of their contents. If removal is arranged for 
by civil contract, close supervision must be exercised to see 
that there is a sufficiency of suitable tubs or receptacles 
with covers, that the removal is made daily in proper 
carts, and carried out at definite times during daylight, 
when the movements of the scavengers can be followed. 
The supervision and management of all refuse receptacles 
is a part of the duties of the sanitary personnel. 

4. Burning Refuse. — In theory, burning is the ideal 
mode of disposal in all cases, but in practice the natural 
dampness of the material makes it difficult. The methods 
for the cremation of refuse vary from the use of the com- 



21] DISPOSAL OF REFUSE 85 

pany kitchen fire to the employment of specially-constructed 
incinerators. Where available, the use of a little mineral 
oil will much facilitate the destruction of garbage by fire. 
In other cases, the construction of a simple grate of iron 
rods placed on turf supports is often successful in maintain- 
ing a brisk fire when fed with camp refuse. In any devices 
of this kind, the great essential is to secure a draught of air 
under and through the material to be burnt; the damper 
the mass, the greater the need of air. Once the fire is 
started and a draught secured, it will burn, provided it is 
not fed too quickly with damp refuse. 

5. Camp Incinerator. — A simple refuse destructor can be 
made by digging two shallow trenches intersecting each 
other at right angles. Each trench should be 9 inches 
deep, an,d 9 inches wide where they cross, getting gradually 
shallower and wider towards the ends. The length of each 
trench need not exceed 5 feet. Over the angles of inter- 
section, a chimney, some 3 feet high and 3 feet in diameter, 
must be built of turf sods or bricks. To support the walls 
of the chimney where they cross the trenches, iron bands 
off bales or barrels may be used, or meat-tins with the 
bottoms knocked out. A fire "can quickly be lighted with 
any dfy material at the bottom of the shaft,, and fed 
steadily by throwing rubbish and refuse down the top. 
Qther types of incinerators are described in the Manual of 
Elementary Military Hygiene, 191 2. 

6. In places where boulders, or large stones, or broken 
bricks, are not procurable, a crematory can be made of 
empty tins of all kinds. The tins are stacked in heaps about 
4 feet high, and on and around them is piled the miscel- 
laneous rubbish, which is then set alight.. The tins servt 
to keep an air-space and generate an under-draught, causing 
the whole heap to burn fiercely. They can be used over 
and over again. Ultimately all tins and broken hardware 
should be stacked, or preferably buried, and on no account 



SANITAXION 

be left lying about to mark the site of an abandoned 
camping-ground., 

7. The making of the above simple designs of incinerator 
presents little difficulty , and men should be taught their use 
and practised in their construction. An enormous amount of 
material can be disposed of in a few hours if the draught 
trenches or holes are kept clear, and the refuse added with 
ordinary care. Once a fire is well alight in one of these 
incinerators, even faecal material from the lactrine-buckets 
can be destroyed by fire, provided it does not cause offence 
to anyone in the vicinity. Finally, when making these 
incinerators, care should be taken to cut and stack the 
turf in the form of sods, in order to facilitate its eventual 
replacement. . 

Section 22. — Ablution-Places, Waste Water, and 
Horse-Lines 

J.. Ablution-Places. — Ablution-places should be located 
conveniently near the tents, and soiled or soapy water 
drained away on similar principles to those indicated for 
kitchen sullage water. Ablution-places may be made round 
taps, or by the side o£ streams, etc. Canvas screens can 
with advantage be rigged up round them. Benches or 
foot-gratings may be supplied if available. Types of 
ablution-places fitted with baths, suitable for large military 
permanent camps, are described in the Manual of Elementary 
Military Hygiene, 1912. 

2. Disposal 0! Waste Water. — This subject has already 
been considered in Sec. 20. Unless the soil and. gradients 
favour rapid absorption and drainage of all waste water-, it 
will be advisable either to shift the kitchens and washing- 1 
places every few days, or to collect this liquid in water- 
tight rereptacles. Such receptacles should be placed ok 
raised platforms, and the contents should be emptied daily 



23 J SANITATION IN BILLETS 87 

outside the camp area. Before being returned to use, they 
should be cleaned and rubbed with a cloth soaked in crude 
creosote. 

3. Horse-Lines. — In camps at which some of the officers 
are mounted, horse-lines must be provided, which will re- 
quire careful supervision. They must be situated at least 
100 yards from, and when practicable to leeward of, the 
water-supply and kitchens. The horses should be picketed 
together in a straight line, and not scattered over the 
camping-ground. Excreta should be removed continually 
and placed in receptacles some distance outside the lines. 
Arrangements for their removal may be made with a con- 
tractor. A line orderly should be detailed daily and made 
responsible for the cleanliness and tidiness of the horse-lines, 
and their surroundings. 



Section 23. — Sanitation in Billets. 

1. Ventilation. — Next to overcrowding, the danger of which 
has already been discussed in Sec. 16, para. 2, ventilation is 
one of the most important points in connection with billeting 
accommodation. Ventilation may be denned as providing 
the inmates of houses with pure air. The results of careful 
research show that it is necessary to change the air of a 
room three times every hour in order to keep it pure, when 
a room has good means of ventilation, is fairly large, and not 
^crowded. If the means of ventilation are defective, and 
rooms are small and crowded, the air must be changed 
more often every hour to keep it pure. No definite rule 
can, therefore, be laid down regarding ventilation. As 
large a superficial area as possible should, however,' be 
allowed for each man in billets, and rooms should be 
chosen with large windows, to allow of a good supp'v of 
fresh air. 3 



88 SANITATION [23 

2. Avoidance of Draughts. — It is of great importance 
that it should be possible to ventilate rooms without sub- 
jecting the inmates to draughts, which may adversely affect 
their health. In addition to any other means of ventila- 
tion, such as fresh air inlets or chimneys, the Windows should 
always be open on one or both sides of a room night and 
day as far as the weather and season admit. In this way 
a complete change of air can be effected. The windows 
shoul^ be open at the top, as the air will then enter above 
the heads of the inmates, who will not be subjected to 
draughts. As fresh air is generally colder, and therefore 
heavier, than the air inside a room, it tends to sink gradually 
and displace the warmer, impure air in the room, which 
rises to the top and escapes through the ventilators or 
windows. 

3. Cleanliness in Billets. — Cleanliness in the barrack- 
room is another means of preventing disease. The in- 
fectious germs of Some diseases can remain alive attached 
to particles of dust for a considerable time, and therefore 
the mere stirring up of dust by means of a dry duster or 
brush, for it either to settle again or be inhaled ^by the 
occupants- of the room, is both useless and harmful. Dust-, 
ing should be done with a damp cloth, rinsed out from time 
to' time in water, and should never be done just before a 
meal is to be eaten in the room. 

.The sluicing of a quantity of water over floors should 
not be allowed; they can be cleaned with a wet mop or 
cloth rinsed out in a pail of water. Occasionally they will 
require scrubbing, but this -should be done with soap and 
a minimum of water. The custom of putting blankets on 
a wet floor to save a few footmarks is a dirty and unhealthy 
practice, and should be forbidden. 

4. Disposal of Excreta and Refuse. — As a rule water or 
dry earth-closets and dust-bins will be available on or near 
premises suitable as billets. When cadets are accommo- 



23] SANITATION IN BILLETS 

dated in billets it will be the duty of the camp 
secretary, with the aid, if necessary, of a medical officer, 
to see that the arrangements for the disposal of excreta 
and refuse are satisfactory before he decides to hire or 
accept the loan of premises. When these arrangements are 
not available, they must be provided according to the 
directions laid down in Sees. 19 and 21, when the pre- 
cautions relating to latrines and urinals in camps will also 
apply to them. 

5. It is the duty of every user of water closets to see that 
the contents of the pan are properly washed away by pulling 
the chain of the flushing- tank. Another detail requiring 
attention is that of using paper torn or cut to a size not 
larger than that of an ordinary hand, which should be prov 
vided. Men must be taught not to use large sheets of 
paper, which will prevent the pan being properly cleaned, 
and facilitate rapid clogging up of the discharge pipe. For 
the same reason, pieces of cloth, rags, and other articles 
of the kind, must never be thrown into a water-closet. 
The proper place for such articles is the ash-bin. 

6. Earth-Closets. — The usual arrangement for earth- 
closets is the provision of a pail or portable midden, placed 
under an aperture in a seat, With a box of dry earth, from 
which, by means of a scoop, the user covers over the excreta. 
Special care should be taken to throw a sufficiency of the 
dry earth over the filth in the pail, in order to obviate the 
smell and to prevent flies gaining access to this objection- 
able material. The pail contents must be removed daily. 
An adequate supply of finely -powdered dry soil and a suffi- 
ciency of scoops must always be available. The pails must 
fit closely under the seat. If there is a gap between the 
top of the pail and the seat, the floor is certain to be fouled. 
The floor must be suitably sloped, and made of some hard, 
impermeable material. Enough pails must be available to 
allow those which have been fouled to be cleaned. 



90 SANITATION [23 

*7. Cleaning Closets. — No matter whether it be a water 
or dry earth closet, all woodwork and fittings must be kept 
scrupulously clean. The seats must be scrubbed daily with 
soap and water, the scrubbing including both the upper 
and under surfaces of the seat. The pans or pails must be 
kept clean. Dry earth-closet pails may be cleaned by 
first washing out the contents with water, drying and airing 
by exposure for a few hours to the sun, if possible, and 
then scrubbing, over the inner surface with the creosol 
solution supplied for the purpose by the barrack depart- 
ment. The coating of these utensils with tar is objection- 
able, as it renders them unsightly, and tends to conceal 
rather than remove dirt 

8. Urinals. — Urinals should be managed on similar lines 
to latrines. Those of porcelain or glazed earthenware must 
be adequately flushed with water either automatically or 
by hand ; while those made of slabs of slate must be wiped 
over twice a week with sufficient heavy oil to impart a 
greasy surface. Urine-tubs, if used for night convenience, 
must be cleaned in precisely the same way as closet-pails. 
Their contents need to be carefully emptied each morning, 
with special precautions taken to see that no splashing or 
spilling occurs on the landings or stairways. If such does 
occur, it should be immediately dusted over with dry earth, 
and the place swept clean. 

9. Disposal of Waste Water. — Drains for the disposal of 
waste water will usually be provided on or near premises 
suitable for billets. The camp secretary of cadet corps 
should see that these arrangements are satisfactory before 
selecting billets. If .special ablution-places have to be 
provided, because the baths or other facilities in billets are 
inadequate, unsatisfactory, or non-existent, they must be 
arranged for according to the directions already given for 
ablution places in camps. 



24] PERSONAL CLEANLINESS, CARE OF FEET g] 



Section 24. — Personal Cleanliness and Care of Feet. 

1. Personal Cleanliness. — Personal cleanliness must be in- 
sisted on, not only with regard to the body, but also with 
regard to clothing, tents, and equipment. Every soldier 
should bathe at least once a day, and more often if necessary, 
washing his whole body thoroughly with soap and water. 
Bodily cleanliness is especially important with respect to 
the teeth, hair, and feet. The teeth should be brushed and 
the mouth cleansed twice a day — on rising in the morning, 
arid on retiring to bed at night. The hair should be cut 
short, and well brushed frequently with a clean hair-brush. 
The head should be washed occasionally. Hair-brushes 
may be cleaned by combing out loose hairs, and then 
dipping them in cold water in which soda is dissolved. If 
possible, they should be dried in the sun. Hands should be 
washed and nails cleaned whenever possible before meals. 

2. Care of Feet. — (i) It is important that the feet of 
soldiers should be kept in good condition. The essential 
conditions for the care of the feet are cleanliness, well- 
fitting boots, and good socks. Cadets should not bring 
new boots to camp, and both socks and boots should, if 
possible, be inspected and approved . before starting for 
camp. Feet should be inspected frequently during camp by 
officers, who should see that they are clean, and that the nails 
are kept properly cut — namely, straight across, not rounded 
at the ends, and not too short. Cadets should be made 
to wash their feet at least once a day, preferably before 
retiring to bed. If facilities for washing the feet are not 
available, wiping them, especially the toes, with a wet 
cloth will suffice to remove dirt and grease. 

(ii) Socks. — Thick wool or worsted socks should be worn. 
Sore feet are occasionally contracted through the sock 
shrinking and becoming shortened, so that the heel tends 



02 SANITATION [24 

to come under the sole of the foot and cause creases. 
Men should therefore be taught to stretch' their Socks 
when they take them off, and also at the end of a march. 
Having stretched them, they should shake them out; and 
if they put them on again, they "should wear them on a 
different foot to that on which they were worn during the 
march. Two pairs of socks should be used every day, the 
second pair being put on after the day's work ls over or at 
tea-time. Sore feet may be prevented by greasing the 
inside of the socks with soap, especially those parts of the 
sock which fit over parts of the foot that usually become 
sore from rubbing. 

(iii) Boots. — Stout, well-fitting boots are • necessary for 
marching. They should fit closely round the heel and 
ankle, and comfortably over the instep and across the 
points of the toes. They should be ± inch longer than the 
foot, and square, not pointed, in the toe The sole should 
be thick and studded with nails in groups of three, because 
boots without nails are slippery when walking over grass 
or heather, and soon wear out on hard roads. The heel of 
the boot should have an iron tip round the edge which 
receives, most wear. Boots should on no account be 
blacked, but after dust and mud have been removed, they 
should be rubbed over with dubbin, which will clean them 
and tend to make the leatner soft as well as water-proof. 

(iv) Tender Feet. — Men whose feet are naturally tender 
and soft should be made to bathe them at night in tepid 
water in which a small quantity of soda or alum is dis- 1 
solved. When drying after bathing, they may be dusted 
over with a fine powder made up as follows. Boracic acid 
(finest powder), 60 per cent.; powdered talc, 35 per cent.; 
salicylic acid, 5 per cent. Excessive sweating with the feet 
may be relieved by bathing them in a solution consisting 
of 1 ounce, of formalin to 2 pints of water, or by soaking 
the feet in wter coloured red with permanganate of potash* 



241 PERSONAL CLEANLINESS, CARE OF FEET 93 

(v) Treatment of Blisters. — Men suffering from blisters 
should be made to report to an officer or N.C.O., who should 
supervise the treatment of the blister by the man, and 
periodically inspect his feet until the blister is healed. He 
should inquire into the cause of the blister, and examine 
the boots and socks of the man with a view to preventing 
further injury. Blisters may be pricked with a needle 
sterilized by being held in the flame of a match for a few 
seconds, or left in boiling water for some minutes. When 
the fluid has escaped, the blister should be dusted over 
with absorbent powder, such as boric powder or oxide of 
zinc — preferably the latter. To protect the blistered part 
in subsequent marching, a dressing of antiseptic cotton- 
wool, kept in position with adhesive plaster, may be used. 
In this case care must be taken at the end of the march to 
remove the dressing, and if necessary, continue treatment. 
Blistered feet must be kept scrupulously clean. 



CHAPTER VI 
ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS* 

Section 25.— General Information. 

1. Information for organizing camps for -the accommodation 
and training of a complete batiulion is embodied in this book. 
This information, with necessary modifications, will apply 
equally well to the organization of camps for the training 
of smaller units, such as - companies or platoons, and to 
the organization of camps for cadet corps. For cadet 
training, camps or billets are undoubtedly preferable to 
bivouacs, which in Britain are generally unsuitable for 
boys for climatic and other reasons. 

2. Numbers in Cadet Camps. — As regards the size of cadet 
camps and the numbers they should accommodate, no 
fixed rules can be laid down. These considerations must 
be governed by the circumstances of . each case, and will 
depend upon a variety of factors, '.including the extent of 
facilities in the shape of ground and necessary equipment, 
the number of cadets able to attend camp, and the funds 
available for expenses. In Britain it will usually be easier 
to obtain ground for camp sites for small numbers than for 
large. For this reason, small company camps will perhaps 
be found more practicable than camps for battalions or 
larger numbers. 

3. When ground cannot be obtained for a company camp, 
it may be possible to organize four separate camps for 
pJatoons close enough to one another to allow the cadets to 

* This chapter includes information regarding the accommodation 
of cadet corps in camps and billets. 

94 



25] GENERAL INFORMATION 95 

be trained together as a company. This plan, however 
should not be carried out unless it is unavoidable. It is 
more convenient, more economical, and simpler to organize a 
company camp for 200 cadets than to organize four separate 
camps to accommodate 50 or 60 cadets each. In the latter 
case the problems of transport, food and water supply, 
would be multiplied, greater expenses would be incurred, 
and the problems of routine and training would be com- 
plicated. 

4. Site of Cadet Camps (Sec. 15, para. 1) — Many im- 
portant factors affect decisions regarding the site of military 
camps, both in war and peace, which need not be taken into 
consideration in choosing sites for cadet camps. For in- 
stance, these sites need not be chosen with a view to defence, 
or for their proximity to a line of march, and their choice 
does not involve problems connected with the management 
and care of large numbers of horses and other transport 
animals, baggage trains, artillery parks, and aircraft; while 
the problems of sanitation, food and water supply, are 
immensely simplified. 

5. When selecting a site, regard must be had to the 
length of time it will be occupied, the numbers it will accom- 
modate, the nature of the ground and soil, the aspect and 
elevation, the vicinity of a road, together with ground 
suitable for training and a rifle-range if possible, and, 
finally, to the problems of food and water supply. A good 
site, if it meets other requirements, would be in rough, open 
country, with plenty of ground to work over without the 
danger of damage to crops. If such a site is close to the 
sea, it will have the further advantage of affording oppor- 
tunities for sea-bathing and instruction in swimming. The 
vicinity of a small town or village will facilitate supply 
and transport arrangements, but the immediate neighbour-? 
hood of large cities is as a rule undesirable. 

6. Whenever possible, the site should be near the head- 



96 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [25 

quarters of a cadet unit, so as to economize travelling fares 
and cost of transport. These expenses may be saved or 
reduced if cadets can march the whole or part of the 
distance .between headquarters and camp, and if equip- 
ment, baggage, and stores can be transported partly or 
wholly by cadets themselves. Camp sites that have been 
occupied previously should be avoided if possible. Such sites' 
should not be used unless it is certain that every precaution 
has been taken to clean them thoroughly since they were last 
occupied, and unless the position of old latrines and rubbish- 
pits are clearly marked. 

7. Public and Private Ground. — (i) Private ground, if it can 
be obtained free of charge for hire, is greatly preferable to 
public land as a site for cadet camps. On private ground 
the camp will be more comfortable to live in, as it will not 
be overlooked. Discipline and order will be more easily 
preserved, and routine and training more easily carried out. 
Even where public land is available, it is very doubtful 
whether it will provide adequate facilities for organizing 
camps and carrying out training satisfactorily. It should 
not, however, be difficult for arrangements to be made with 
public-spirited persons to give facilities for cadet corps on 
private ground, provided the owners are secured against 
damage to property and inconvenience of any kind. This, 
again, is a matter capable of easy arrangement, and will 
depend to a great extent on the discipline and good be- 
haviour of cadets themselves.- 

(ii) Farms and Camps. — Co-operation between farmers and 
cadet corps might provide a good solution of the twin 
problems of camp sites and ground for training. It might 
be possible to arrange for farmers to benefit, pecuniarily 
through the sale of food-supplies to the camp, and through 
the hire of their horses and vehicles for transport, in return 
for their granting the use of the land for the camp and for 
training free of charge. Such an arrangement would solve 



251 GENERAL INFORMATION 97 

the problem of a good water-supply, and might help to 
solve the problems of transport and food-supply. Under 
ordinary circumstances, farms would also bring camps into 
touch with postal and telegraphic facilities. These sugges- 
tions may be worth the consideration of commanding 
officers who are unable to make other arrangements for 
the training of their corps in camp 

8. Water-Supply. — The water-supply must be good as 
well as ample. No site should be selected for a camp till 
the water has been tested and pronounced pure and fit to 
drink by a qualified medical officer, when this precaution 
is deemed necessary. 

9. Cadet Billets. — Billets, as an alternative to a camp for 
cadet training, involve both advantages and disadvantages. 
Provided suitable accommodation can be found free of 
charge, billets materially reduce the expenses of training, 
for they do away with the necessity for the hire and trans- 
port of tents and other camp equipment. They render the 
problem of food and water supply easy of solution, and, 
if equipped with kitchens, may save the trouble and expense 
of providing camp kitchens with their equipment. In 
billets more time will be available for purely military in- 
struction,, as cadets will not have to perform numerous 
fatigue duties incidental to camps, such as laying out the 
camp, pitching and striking tents. Problems of camp 
sanitation generally, including the provision of latrines, and 
the disposal of large quantities of rubbish, refuse, and dirty 
water, either do not arise at all or are more easily solved in 
billets. Finally, in wet or inclement weather, billets are 
more comfortable, and perhaps safer from the point of view 
of health, than camps. 

10. On the other hand, it may be more difficult to ^eep 
cadets under proper supervision and to maintain good 
discipline among them in billets, especially if they are dis- 
tributed in small numbers among several houses. This, of 



qS ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [2fi 

course, is a vitally important consideration. The training 
of cadets in camp duties will, of course, be curtailed appre- 
ciably in billets, because they cannot be instructed in laying 
out camps, in pitching and striking tents, in sanitation, 
cooking, and other duties incidental to pamp life. Billets, 
moreover, afford less opportunities as compared with camps 
for the instruction of cadet officers and N.C.O.'s in various 
duties connected with the organization, management, and 
care of their commands. These are drawbacks, because 
the above duties, besides being useful from the point of 
view of military training, help to develop powers of organiza- 
tion in cadet officers, and help to form character in the 
qualities of resource and initiative. They further teach 
cadets to adapt themselves readily to circumstances — a 
faculty which they must possess before they can be made 
efficient soldiers. 

11. As in the case of cadet camps, the problem of billet- 
ing cadets is extremely simple as compared with that of 
billeting soldiers in peace or war, the only considerations 
to be taken into account by cadet officers being those of 
health and general convenience. These considerations are 
much the same in principle as those which apply to cadet 
camps. That is to say, billets should be as near as possible 
to tie headquarters of units, so as to economize railway 
fares and expenses of transport, and also near ground 
affording good facilities for training. Every care should be 
taken to make sure that billets are absolutely healthy as 
to locality, situation, and accommodation, especiallv with 
regard to drainage and water-supply 

12. Number in Cadet BilletSo-r-(i) The general principles 
laid down tor numbers in camps apply also to billets It 
will as a rule be easier to obtain billets for small units than 
for large numbers. Accommodation will therefore be more 
easily found for platoons or companies than for battalions 
On the other hand, for reasons already stated, the svStem of 



25 GENERAL INFORMATION 99 

accommodating cadets in small numbers in separate billets 
should be avoided if possible. Commanding officers should 
try to arrange for accommodation which will allow at least 
twenty-five to thirty cadets to be billeted together under 
the supervision of an officer. If this is not possible, cadets 
should be billeted in sections, each under its own non-com- 
missioned officer. As in the case of camps, billeting accom- 
modation should be arranged in a locality so as to allow of 
at least 150 to 200 cadets being trained together as a com- 
pany. 

(ii) Accommodation. — The subject of accommodation in 
billets is dealt with in Sec. 23 of Chapter V., under the 
heading of Sanitation in Billets. Overcrowding must on no 
account be permitted, as being exceedingly injurious to health. 
As a rough guide to cadet officers as to the number of cadets 
to be accommodated in rooms of various sizes, the follow- 
ing directions laid down for the housing of soldiers in 
billets, may be quoted from the Manual of Elementary 
Military Hygiene, 19 12 : "In distributing men to the rooms 
in houses, it is desirable that the following numbers be 
not exceeded' — namely, in rooms over 15 feet wide and 
under 25 feet wide, not more than two men for every yard 
of length, and in rooms 25 feet wide and more, not more 
than three men for every yard of length." This space is 
considerably less than that allowed for each soldier in 
barracks in Great Britain, which is 60 square feet, or 
600 cubic feet. The ventilation of rooms, however, as well 
as their size, must be taken into account in deciding the 
number of cadets to be quartered in them. 

13. Billets in Schools, Farms, etc. — In the case of corps 
attached to schools, it may be possible for cadets to be 
billeted in their own school building free of charge for' rent 
during the summer vacation — their accommodation, of 
course, being arranged, not under ordinary, but under strict 
military conditions. It may also be possible to arrange 



ioo ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [25 

with farmers for billeting cadets in suitable barns, sheds, 
and other farm buildings especially prepared for their recep- 
tion, which may be available under conditions similar to 
those suggested in connection with camps on farm-lands, 
the various advantages of which will apply equally to farm 
billets. It might be possible to accommodate a whole 
platoon or company in farm buildings, if large enough, the 
officers being quartered in the farm-house or in tents. 

14. It may also be possible, by arrangement with the 
the persons or public authorities controlling drill-halls, 
national schools, and other suitable buildings, to allow 
them to be used for cadet billets during the summer vaca- 
tion free of charge for rent. These suggestions should not 
prove impracticable if satisfactory arrangements can be 
made with cadet corps to meet any small expenses in- 
curred, such as heating and lighting, for instance, and for 
the proper care and cleaning of buildings, for the prevention 
of damage to them, and for compensation in case of. 
damage. 

15. — Equipment. — All camp and personal equipment 
should be reduced to a minimum, and comprise only what 
is absolutely indispensable -for health and comfort. The 
purchase and hire of necessary equipment, and the cos't 
of transporting it to camp, is a question of expense, and 
therefore depends on the funds available. In Appendix V. 
will be found information regarding hire of camp equip- 
ment. 

16. Personal Equipment. — Apart from his belt and 
cartridge-pouch, every cadet should bring with him to camp 
the following articles : Water-bottle, haversack or ruck- 
sack, service mess-tin, knife, fork, spoon, greatcoat or cape. 
Each cadet should also bring one complete set of spare 
underclothing, including shirt, socks, and a pair of spare 
boots, a spare uniform or a civilian suit, soap, tooth-brush, 
hair-brush and comb, nail-brush, clothes-brush, sponge. 



25] GENERAL INFORMATION lot 

cheap camp mirror, two bath towels, and pyjamas. Every 
article of equipment should, if possible, be marked plainly 
with the initials and name of their owner, and be packed 
in a separate hand-bag or kit-bag, clearly marked with 
the initials and full surname of the cadet to whom it 
oelongs. 

17. Camp Equipment. — (i) Tents. — The ordinary service 
" bell " tent or circular single linen tent is the most suitable 
for cadet camps. It is made of canvas, and weighs with 
pole when -dry about 70 pounds, but its weight increases 
considerably if it becomes wet. It is 10 feet high, and has 
a base diameter of 12^ feet. It is issued packed in a valise 
containing forty-two pegs and two mallets for driving them 
into the ground. Each tent will accommodate twelve 
cadets, which number should not be exceeded. 

(ii) Bedding should consist of one water-proof sheet and 
two blankets per cadet, pillows being improvised with 
clothes, or a bolster filled with straw. Wooden tent- 
bottoms, which cover the ground inside the tent in the 
manner of floor-boards, are sometimes issued instead of 
water-proof sheets, and are useful when the ground is wet. 
But they are weighty and cumbersome things, which are 
difficult and expensive to transport, and are not, therefore, 
ordinarily suitable for cadet camps. 

(iii) Miscellaneous. — Tent lanterns to burn candles, arm- 
racks fixed to the pole of the tent to hold rifles, and canvas 
pails or buckets to wash in, practically complete the equip- 
ment necessary for cadet camps. If spades cannot be 
borrowed for digging trenches round the tents in wet 
weather, if required, a few entrenching tools must be 
included. 

18. Equipment in Billets. — Equipment in cadet billets 
should, whenever possible, be confined to personal equip- 
ment and bedding. The former will consist of the articles 
mentioned as necessary for camp, and the latter of two 



102 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [25 

blankets and perhaps a- pillow. Cadets should be made 
to sleep on the floor, and use their mess-tins for meals. 
It must be remembered that soldiers on active service have 
a right to shelter only in billets, unless arrangements are 
also made to supply them with food. Cadets, therefore, 
must not expect to enjoy the use of furniture, bedding, 
and other luxuries. If these are provided by the owner: 
of the billet, they must be received by cadets as a favour, 
not as a right. 

19. Bounds. — As a general rule towns and villages in the 
vicinity of camps should be placed out of bounds. This 
should also be done, if possible, when cadets are accom- 
modated in billets in buildings outside towns and villages. 
In the case of billets in towns and villages, the problem oi 
bounds will be more difficult to solve, but it may be done, 
if necessary, by placing all except certain well-defined 
quarters or streets out of bounds. All public-houses, shops, 
fields with growing -crops, fruit orchards, railway-lines, 
rivers, lakes and ponds, except those authorized for bathing, 
should be placed out of bounds, and if necessary anjr other 
places, 'according to the discretion of commanding officers. 
If the routine of camps and billets is arranged so that the 
time" of cadets is fully occupied with training and amuse- 
ments, which give employment to all, it is unlikely that 
cadets will have opportunity or inclination to spend much 
if any, of their leisure away from their comrades and their 
quarters or training-ground. 

20. Visitors and Strangers. — No stranger or persons other 
than members of units in camp or persons transacting 
business should be permitted to enter camp3 or billets 
without written permission, signed by the commanding 
officer. The sentries in camp, and the officer, N.C.O., or 
senior cadet in charge of each group in billets, may be made 
responsible for enforcing this order. Special arrangements 
may be made by commanding officers to enable cadets to 



25] GENERAL INFORMATION 103 

receive their friends in camp at certain hours or on ceitain 
days, or to witness prize competitions, athletic sports, and 
ceremonial parades. Cadets should be forbidden to make 
acquaintance with, or admit strangers into their company. 
They must limit their conversation with strangers to 
polite replies to questions, and then proceed upon their 
business. 

21. Punishments. — If possible, punishments should be 
eliminated altogether from the routine of cadet camps and 
billets. Minor derelictions of duty and offences against 
discipline should be punished by withholding permission to 
leave camp in hours of leisure, and making cadets do close 
order drill, or attend other instructional parades, during 
the time devoted to amusements and prize competitions. 
Serious offences of any kind should be punished by instant 
dismissal from camp. Officers commanding camps or 
billets should make careful arrangements for dealing with 
breaches of duty, discipline, and good conduct. 

22. Medical Examination. — A medical examination oi 
cadets should, if possible, be carried out before they start, 
and should be enforced as a strict rule when there is any 
ground to suppose that a cadet is unfit, or if for any physical 
reason there is a doubt as to whether, in his own interest 
or that of his comrades, he should be allowed to attend 
camp. Cadets who show any sign of tuberculosis, and 
those who have been in houses where a person is suffering 
from contagious or infectious diseases, or have otherwise 
been in contact with such persons, should not be allowed 
to attend camp. These precautions are so obviously 
proper, and so clearly in the interest of all concerned, that 
parents, employers, and guardians, should co-operate with 
officers commanding cadet corps to insure that effect is 
given to them. 

23. Hospital Tent or Sick Bay. — In organizing camps and 
billets, a hospital tent or sick-inspection room .should be 



104 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [Zt 

provided for the reception oi sick or injured cadets, under 
the supervision of the medical officer, if one attends camp. 
If no medical officer is attached to the camp, arrangements 
should be made to keep in touch with a local practitioner, 
so that his services may be procured as soon as possible if 
required 

24. Infectious Diseases. — (1) if an infectious disease 
breaks out in a cadet camp, it may spread rapidly among 
the boys. The first case must be isolated immediately. 
As soon as possible the sick cadet should be removed from 
camp to his home or some neighbouring hospital, under the 
supervision of a doctor, who will see that everything possible 
is done for his safety and comfort. 

(ii) The uniform, clothes, equipment, bedding, and 
personal effects of the sick cadet should at once be removed 
for disinfection under the orders of the doctor. If neces- 
sary, the cadets sharing his tent, or brought directly in 
contact with him, should be isolated irpm their comrades 
or sent home after due notification to their parents or 
guardians. Finally, if the doctor deems it advisable in the 
interest of the cadets and the public welfare, the camp 
should be broken up. In doing this, all necessary pre- 
cautions must be taken to prevent further spread of infection. 

25. Fatigue and Exposure. — The dangers of over-fatigue 
in training and recreation must be guarded against. Cadets 
must be protected against the ill-eflects of exposure to hot 
sunshine and cold or wet weather by regulating their head- 
gear and clothing, by changing clothes, socks, and boots, 
rendered damp by rain or perspiration; by serving cadet9 
with hot coffee or beef-tea when necessary, and generally, 
by adapting their garments, diet, routine, and instruction, 
as far as possible, to suit the conditions of temperature and 
weather 

26. Miscellaneous Hints. — (i) Officers should watch their 
cadets carefully. If any one of them does not look fit. he- 



26] TRAINING AND RECREATION 105 

should, if necessary, be made to report himself for examina- 
tion at the hospital tent or sick-inspection room. 

(ii) No work should ever be commenced on an empty 
stomach. Arrangements must be made for cadets to be 
served with a cup of cocoa or tea before the morning parade, 
if it is held, before the regular Dreakfast hour 

(iii) Care must be taken to prevent cadets drinking from 
brooks, streams, taps, or from any but authorized sources 
of water-supply in or out of camp. They must not be 
allowed to buy fruit from any but specially authorized 
sources of supply. They must be warned against the eating 
of unripe ffuit. 

Section 26. — Training and Recreation. 

1. Value of Cadet Camps and Billets. — In the case of 
cadet corps belonging to large cities, the annual training in 
country camps or billets may provide the best, and perhaps 
the only, opportunity for carrying out field training by day 
and night under suitable conditions, in the absence of good 
facilities in* the shape of ground in or near their home 
districts. As a rule it will afford a favourable opportunity 
for bringing together a number of different corps in a 
locality which may in some cases consist of a single platoon 
each, and which are trained by themselves throughout the 
year, and organizing them into larger units for training as 
companies or battalions when such training is desirable, 
and can be undertaken conveniently and usefully. 

2. Training m cadet camps and billets may thus give 
cadet officers experience in the art of command with larger 
numbers than usual. It will give officers valuable ex- 
perience of practical, if simple, problems of organization. 
It will afford opportunities for developing character and 
for training both officers and cadets in important military 
duties dealt -with as 'subjects of instruction in this book, 



ro6 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [26 

which it may be difficult or impossible for them to learn 
under practical conditions except in camps or billets to 
which they are incidental. Finally, this training will 
afford a good opportunity for carrying out the annual in- 
spection of cadet corps, and will economize the time and 
services of inspecting officers. 

3. Regular Attendance. — Arrangements for training and 
organization will be simplified greatly if all the members of 
a corps attending camp or billets for training arrive and 
leave together in a body at predetermined times, and they 
will be complicated and rendered difficult if individuals 
or small parties arrive after the rest and leave before them 
at different times. Every effort should be made to avoid 
irregular attendance, not only on grounds of general con- 
venience, but because it will interfere with training. The 
programme of training cannot be carried out satisfactorily 
and the necessary continuity and progression of instruction 
cannot be preserved unless regular attendance is assured. 

4. Need of Tact. — The success of the instruction carried 
out in camps or billets, as well as the smooth working of 
the arrangements for organization, depends largely upon 
the tact exercised by the commanding officer and senior 
officers in their dealings with junior officers and N.C.O.'s, 
especially when different corps or self-contained units are 
being trained together, and their officers have to work 
•with, and perhaps under, officers belonging to other units, 
as, for instance, when platoons are trained together as 
companies, or companies trained together as battalions. 
It is of the greatest importance under these conditions to 
avoid all possibility of friction and unpleasantness. 

5. Commanding officers must - therefore make careful 
arrangements to have all questions which may give rise 
to friction between officers and cadets of different units 
referred direct to them, and must settle such questions 
with consideration and tact. Senior officers must take 



26] TRAINING AND RECREATION 107 

scrupulous care to avoid undue interference with the 
methods employed by officers and N. CO. 'sunder them in 
training their commands, especially if these officers belong 
to other cadet units, though they must, of course, exercise 
a judicious supervision over their work, and correct faults 
when necessary. They must, however, perform these 
duties with consideration, and must, above all, avoid 
correcting officers in the presence of their N .C.O.'s or cadets, 
as such action is calculated to damage the authority of 
officers, and to be prejudicial to good discipline. 

6. Scope and Progression of Training. — (i) No fixed rules 
can be laid down regarding the scope and nature of the 
training, nor can a uniform scheme of instruction be drawn 
up which is suitable ior all corps. These questions must 
be.influenced by the special circumstances of each case, and 
depend to a great extent on the time, funds, and facilities 
available for training. Cadet officers must therefore use 
their judgment in drawing up a scheme of instruction to 
suit the conditions under which their commands are 
trained, and they must adapt it carefully, according to 
the strength and ability of cadets. A few broad rules 
regarding training in camps and billets may, however, be 
laid down for the guidance of instructors. 

(ii) The temptation to attempt too much in the time 
available must be avoided. It is better to carry out 
thoroughly a moderate scheme of training, tl\e. subjects of 
which are well within the powers of cadets, than to hurry 
through a full programme containing subjects which are 
to any extent beyond their powers. Training should how- 
ever, consist of the more important and more advanced 
subjects of military instruction in preference to elementarv 
subjects. Preference should be given to subiects which 
allow cadets to be tramed together in large units, as m the 
case of companv drill and schemes of attack, defence, or 
outposts. Such instruction, besides being valuable, is 



108 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [26 

more suitable for a scheme of training in camps or billets 
than the plan of dividing cadets into small classes for 
instruction on a' variety of different special subjects, 

(iii) In carrying out the details of a scheme of training, 
it is of the utmost importance to avoid overtiring cadets 
in mind or body This rule is especially important with 
respect to the instruction arranged for the earlier part of 
each day. The principle of introducing elements of variety 
into instruction and making it thoroughly interesting to 
cadets, which is emphasized throughout the books of this 
series, must be observed with respect to the scheme of 
training in camps and billets. The hours devoted to in- 
struction should not be too long, and should include in- 
tervals for rest Whenever possible; subjects of instruc- 
tion which necessitate physical exertion, and are likely to 
tire cadets, should be alternated in the scheme of training 
with subjects which do not necessitate physical effort. In 
the alternative, these subjects should be followed bv time 
reserved for meals or for leisure. 

7. Fatigue Duties. — All unnecessary fatigue duties 
should be abolished as tending to tire cadets and be ifk- 
some to them, and also because they take up time which 
would be better spent in military instruction. Absolute 
order and cleanliness in tents, camping-grounds, and 
billets, as well as personal cleanliness and tidiness, is. how- 
ever, essential. for the health of the camp as well as for the 
discipline and efficiency of cadets. The cleaning of arms 
and accoutrements is also essential for their care and 
preservation. If. however, rigid simplicity with regard to 
uniform, equipment, and rules of life is made a rule in 
cadet camps and billets, the necessary fatigue duties should 
easily be reduced to the minimum necessary for cleanliness, 
preservation of health, order, and efficiency. 

8. Elasticity. — Schemes of training must be elastic, so 
as to be capable of modification in case of interruption 



26] TRAINING AND RECREATION 109 

through bad weather. They must include plans for carry- 
ing on instruction indoors or under shelter when it is not 
possible to do so out of doors. The manner in which this 
may be done to the best advantage must be left to the 
discretion of instructors. Physical training exercises and 
active games should form part of "these alternative arrange- 
ments to keep cadets fit, and compensate them for the loss 
of active exercises out of doors. 

9. Indoor Instruction. — Indoor instruction may consist 
of lectures, illustrated, if possible, by lantern slides or 
landscape targets,* dealing with the various military sub- 
jects, including sanitation and military hygiene. Classes 
may also be held for practical work in first aid, signalling, 
cooking simple rations in mess-tins under conditions 
approximating to those of service, and in subjects such as 
field - sketching, map - reading, military reports, and 
knotting. Conferences for the instruction of officers and 
N.C.O.s may also be held during bad weather. 

10. Subjects of Instruction.— (i) Camp duties will neces- 
sarily form the basis of a scheme of instruction when cadets 
are under canvas instead of in billets. But these duties 
must be introduced into the scheme with care and dis- 
crimination, and should not occupy more time than is 
necessary. As a rule striking and pitching tents, loading 
and packing equipment with other transport duties, cooking 
in mess-tins, and sanitation should be classed as the more 
important subjects of instruction in camp duties. Sentry 
and guard duties, together with ceremonial drills, should 
be reduced to a minimum* 

(ii) Battalion drills, even when there are sufficient num- 
bers to carry them out, should be limited to movements for 
enabling the battalion to form up and march on parade, 
march off from parade, and march past on ceremonial 
occasions. The limited time available for training cadets 
• See Drill and Field Training of this series. 



no ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [26 

throughout the year, as well as in camp, will be better spent 
in company drill, field training, and the other special 
subjects contained in the various manuals of this series thaa 
in battalion, drill. 

(iii) Field entrenching, even in the form of elementary 
spadework, will as a rule lie outside the scope of cadet 
training. If, however, time and facilities are available 
instruction in this subject may be carried out. 

(iv) With regard to instruction generally, subjects such 
as physical training exercises, which form part of the daily 
lessons in schools, should be reduced to a minimum, and 
perhaps disregarded in the scheme of training. The same 
remark applies to close order drill, which should be reduced 
to the minimum necessary for practising company drill 
or handling bodies of cadets. Musketry may be reserved 
for prize competitions if range facilities exist for cadets to 
carry out this branch of training throughout the year. If 
this is not the case, musketry, if possible, should be one of 
the most important subjects in the scheme of training. 
Advantage might also be taken of opportunities for training 
cadets in swimming and life saving, if camps- or billets offer 
facilities for doing so when cadets are unable to be trained 
in these important subjects at home or at school. 

(y) Special Subjects and Competitions. — With these exceptions 
training in special subjects which can best be taught 
during the year, such as those already mentioned, together 
with signalling, first aid, and cooking, may be omitted from 
the scheme of training. Prize competitions may, however, 
be organized in some of these special subjects, and others 
may be included in field exercises or in the alternative 
arrangements .for training in bad weather. 

(vi) Field Training. — Field training should be the principal 
subject of military instruction in cadet camps and billets. 
It is not only the most beneficial subject from the point ot 
view of health, but the most attractive. It is full of variety^ 



26] TRAINING AND RECREATION m 

and may be made to combine instruction in a great number 
of important special duties under practical conditions- 
approximating to those of service. Instruction in the work 
of outposts by night and training in elementary night' 
operations, including developing the sight and hearing for 
use by night, silent advances, etc., should be included in the 
scheme of training among its most important subjects. 

11. Hints to Instructors. — The following suggestions 're- 
garding arrangements for training are made for the guidance 
of instructors. It will as a rule be best during the first few 
days of training, if there are sufficient numbers to form 
more than one company, for the companies to be placed 
entirely at the disposal of their captains for instruction in 
company drill. If a company has not had previous oppor- 
tunities for working together as a company unit, care must 
be taken to make instruction progressive. The different 
movements in company drill should be thoroughly mastered. 
All cadet officers should be given the opportunity of com- 
manding the company as well as their platoons. Non- 
commissioned officers should be practised in commanding 
sections and platoons. 

12. The following suggestions may be made with refer- 
ence to the routine table on p. 139. The hour before 
breakfast may be devoted to company drill, carried out with 
or without arms. The parades between breakfast and 
dinner, when this time is not spent in a tactical scheme of 
attack, defence, or outposts, may be divided into two periods, 
each of three-quarters of an hour or an hour's duration, 
with an interval of half an hour between them. These 
parades may be used for instruction in different subjects, 
such as practising the company in movements in extended 
order. If platoons have been thoroughly trained during 
the vear in their drill and field training, according to the 
instructions laid down in Chapter IV. of the^ Drill and Field 
Training Manual of this series, they should very quickly 



ri2 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS 26 

learn to work together as a company. When the company 
have been practised sufficiently in close order drill and 
extended order movements, the field training of cadets should 
commence, and consist as far as possible of simpJe and 
attractive tactical schemes carried out by day and night. 

13. In carrying out these schemes full advantage should 
be taken of facilities in the shape of ground. Each scheme 
should be carried out if possible on ground over which 
cadets have not worked before. The ground chosen for 
these schemes should differ in nature and features as much 
as possible, so as to train cadets thoroughly in applying the 
principles of instruction to a variety of conditions. As a 
rule tactical schemes should be arranged so that they can 
be brought to a conclusion in the course of a single morning, 
afternoon, or evening, or at the most in the course of a single 
day. After important schemes have been carried out, the 
work of cadets should be made the subject of criticism and 
remarks by the commanding officer to officers and N.C.O.'s 
at conferences, and also in short lectures to cadets. These 
conferences and lectures may take place on the ground 
immediately after an exercise is concluded, or afterwards 
in camp during the evening or at some other convenient 
time. 

14. Table o! Subjects. — The various subjects of instruc- 
tion which have been discussed in the foregoing paragraphs 
are set out in the form of a table for the convenience of 
instructors. They are arranged so that it is possible to see 
at a glance which are suitable for a scheme of training for 
cadets in camps and billets, which are suitable for alter- 
native arrangements for instruction in the case of bad 
weather, or when the normal programme cannot be carried 
out for any reason, and which are suitable for military and 
other prize competitions. The arrangement of subjects in 
this table on p. 1 13 is not meant as a fixed classification, and 
may be modified as desired. 



26 



TRAINING AND RECREATION 



ii3 



15. Conferences. — (i) Commanding officers should pay 
special attention to the training of officers and N.C.O.'s 

TABLE OF SUBJECTS 



Scheme of Training. 



(a) Camp duties. 
(a) Sanitation, 
(a) Ceremonial. 
\b) Company drill 

(a) Conierences. 

(b) Field training 

(attack, de- 
fence, out- 
posts, night 
operations). 
(b) Lectures, 



Special Subjects. 



Prize Competitions. 



(a) 
M 

[b\ 
(A) 
(a) 

(<*) 
(b) 
[0) 

(d) 



(b) 



Cooking. 

Simple field en- 
trenchments. 

Field sketching. 

First aid. 

Knotting. 

Map reading. 

Military reports 

Musketry. 

Signalling (Morse 
a nd sema - 
phore) 

Bayonet fighting. 



(/) Cross-country 
races. 

(d) Despatch carry- 
ing. 

(/) Flat races. 

(/) High and long 
jumping. 

(c) Judgingdistance. 

(a) Loading and 
packing equip- 
ment for trans- 
port. 

(/) Military obstacle 
races. 

(c) Musketry. 

(a) Pitching and 

striking tents. 

(d) Signalling. 
(/)\Swimming and 
(g) J life-saving. 

(b) Bayonet fighting. 



* The subjects lettered (a) are contained in this book, and those 
lettered otherwise in other Manuals of this series, as follows: (b) Drill 
and Field Training Manual ; (c) Musketry Manual ; (d) Signalling 
Manual; (e) Field Entrenchments ; (/) Physical Training Manual (Senior 
Course); (g) Physical Training Manual (Junior Course); (h) First 
Aid. 

while in camps and billets by means of conferences presided 
over by them personally or by a senior officer. At these 



U4 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [26 

conferences various problems connected with training and 
organization can be discussed and settled. For instance, 
^questions concerning routine or the details of the tactical 
schemes which are to be practised may be discussed and 
decided at such conferences, in which junior officers and 
N.C.O.'s will be invited to express their opinions. Con- 
ferences should also be held after tactical schemes have been 
carried out to enable the commanding officer to make sugges- 
tions for the guidance and information of those present. 

(ii) Conferences to discuss general problems of cadet 
training and organization, or military subjects of practical 
interest to cadet officers and N.C.O.'s, may also be arranged 
to be held in wet weather or in the evenings. Apart from 
their educational value, these, conferences will lead to a 
useful exchange of views between the officers of different 
corps, and help towards the solution of various difficulties 
connected with the work of organizing, equipping, and 
training cadet units. They should also help to preserve 
consistency in the method of cadet training, and make for 
the attainment of a higher general standard of efficiency in 
cadet corps. 

16. Discipline. — Discipline is the fundamental principle 
of military training and an essential condition of military 
efficiency. The preservation of good discipline in cadet 
camps and billets is absolutely necessary, not only for 
their utility from an instructional point of view, but also 
because in the absence of good discipline it may be diffi- 
cult .or impossible to obtain facilities for either camps or 
billets. 

17. The preservation of discipline and order in camps 
and billets also affords a good opportunity for training 
cadet non-commissioned officers to handle their commands. 
Non-commissioned officers should be made responsible for 
the good behaviour of their sections. Senior cadets in 
charge of squads and of groups of cadets in tents and 



26] TRAINING AND RECREATION 115 

separate billets should similarly be held responsible lor the 
preservation of order. 

18. Recreation Committee. — (i) Recreation should be 
maae a prominent feature of life in cadet camps and billets. 
A recreation committee should be formed, consisting of a 
number of cadet officers and non-commissioned officers 
representing the different corps or units brought together 
for training. A cadet officer should be chosen to act as 
secretary of the committee. As a rule the afternoon or 
evening will be found the most convenient time for recrea- 
tion. Amusements may be divided into prize competitions 
in various military duties, athletic sports, games, and con- 
certs. To these may be added swimming and life-saving, 
if suitable facilities exist. These different forms of amuse- 
ment will ailow of recreation out-of-doors, and indoors at 
night Or in bad weather if facilities are available. The 
committee may. if funds are available, provide cheap sets 
of dominoes, draughts, and chess, as well as a few news- 
papers or illustrated magazines, to help to pass the time in 
bad weather or during moments of leisure. 

(ii) The nature of recreation and the time of day or night 
for which it is arranged must be regulated carefully accord- 
ing to the programme of training to avoid fatiguing cadets. 
Forms of amusement which involve physical exercise must 
be avoided immediately after or before instructional work 
likely to tire them physically. On the same principle, prize 
competitions in military duties-^-as, for example, signalling, 
despatch-carrying, or musketry — must not immediately 
follow or precede instruction in the same duty or instruc- 
tional exercises of which it has formed part. 

19. Prize Fund. — A prize fund, made up of small limited 
contributions from the cadets in camp and others, should 
be raised by the recreation committee for prizes and other 
expenses connected with the competitions and sports. 
This fund may be increased by contributions from profits 



n6 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [26 

arising from the dry canteen or grocery institute if there 
i5 one in camp. Prizes should consist of useful articles of 
practical value to cadets, such as pocket-knives, binoculars, 
compasses, and watches. 

20. Principle of Equal and Common Benefit. — (i) All 
recreation should be organized as far as possible on the 
principle of equal and common enjoyment and benefit to 
"all. That is to say, amusements of every kind should be 
arranged so that every cadet in camp, or as large a number 
as possible, can take an active part in them. The system 
by which an active part in prize competitions in military 
duties, sports, and games is reserved for a few cadets 
representing each corps or unit, while the rest are limited 
to the inactive part of mere spectators, should be avoided 
as bad in principle and as likely to defeat the objects for 
which recreation is organized. 

(ii) If competitions are arranged as far as possible be- 
tween teams representing the whole or a large proportion 
of the members of each competing unit, and if results are 
decided on the average performance of such teams, not 
only will effect be given to the principle of equal- and 
|common benefit to all, but a good average degree of pro- 
jficiency in military duties and athletic sports will be 
encouraged among a whole body of cadets as opposed to 
the ideal of a high degree of excellence in a few champions 
representing the whole of their unit or corps. 

21. Revival of Historic Customs. — (i) In the past the 
regular practice of athletic sports and active games in 
towns and villages throughout England, together with 
rivalry in skill with weapons, was common among the 
youth of the country, and played an important part in 
developing the physique of the nation and forming its 
character in many of its most valuable traits. These 
martial, sports and active games also helped in no small 
measure to increase the strength of the nation in time ol 



27] TRAINING AND RECREATION 117 

war. The annual training of cadets in country camps and 
billets through the opportunities which it affords for out* 
door sports and military competitions may be instrumental 
in reviving these customs among the boys of the nation, ( 
especially among those who live in the more populous 
quarters of great cities, or those who for other reasons are 
without facilities for habitually playing active games, and 
in* consequence have lost interest in them except perhaps 
as spectators, and taken up other and less beneficial kinds 
of recreation. 

(ii) Officers commanding cadet corps should therefore 
encourage the regular practice of athletic sports in their 
commands. Competitions might be organized between 
different units, to be carried out at intervals during the 
year. In co-operation with other commanding officers, 
an annual athietic sports meeting might be organized to 
take place during the period of camp training at which the 
different corps or units brought together for instruction 
compete against one another in various athletic events 
and military prize competitions. The recreation in camp 
would thus become an important event in the lives of 
cadets, and would do much to popularize the annual training 
among them. These meetings, moreover, would be certain 
to attract public attention in the districts in which they 
were held, and help to stimulate national sympathy and in- 
terest in the work of cadet corps. 

Section 27. — General Rules for organizing Camps.* 

1. Organization Committee. — The arrangements for 
organizing camps and billets should be carried out by an 
organization committee consisting of senior cadet officers, 
preferably those experienced in this work. When a number 

• The information regarding organization in this chapter can be 
adapted, with necessary modifications, for camps containing large or 
small numbers. 



u8 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [27 

of different units are brought together for training, the 
committee should consist of officers representing each unit. 
The committee should appoint a secretary to make necessary 
arrangements under its orders. The first duty of the 
secretary will be to obtain particulars of the different units 
and the total numbers to be accommodated. It is impos- 
sible to go into details regarding organization, because its 
nature in each case will depend upon a variety of factors, 
including numbers, which may vary greatly. The subject 
of organization must, therefore, be considered very gener- 
ally in the light of certain broad principles upon which it 
must be based. 

2. Grouping of Units. — As far as possible, units should 
be grouped together in camps and billets, according to the 
district and locality from which they come, and sections, 
platoons, and companies should be kept together according 
to their own organization. At the same time, companies 
should, if possible, be approximately of the same strength. 
Therefore platoons which are not already organized into 
companies may be grouped with other platoons to make up 
companies which are deficient in numbers. Platoons and 
sections, however, must not be broken up, and the officers 
and cadets distributed among other units to bring them 
up to full strength. 

3. Camp Commandant and Adjutant. — The senior cadet 
officer should be the camp commandant. He will, when 
necessary, select an officer to act as adjutant. As a rule, 
when the number of cadets in camps or billets is less than 
400, an adjutant will not be necessary. The commandant 
of the camp will be able to combine both duties, while the 
orderly officer of the day can do the guard mounting duties, 
etc If numbers do not equal a company at full strength, 
a cadet officer may perform the duties of quartermaster 
as well as a certain number of his company duties ; but in 
the^case of a company, at full strength, or a larger number. 



28] PRELIMINARY DUTIES 119 

an officer should be appointed quartermaster. Each cadet 
battalion must have a quartermaster, and when there are 
more than two battalions in camp there should also be a 
brigade or camp quartermaster. 

Section 28. — Preliminary Duties. 

1. Taking over Stores. — (i) When tents and other camp 
equipment are hired for the use of the camp from a con- 
tractor or the Ordnance Department, the camp secretary, 
who arranges the hiring, should appoint a day and hour for 
the handing over of the same by the hirer to the camp 
quartermaster. The greatest care in checking and counting 
stores should be taken, otherwise losses must occur, which 
will, of course,;: have to be made good by the unit re- 
sponsible.. 

(ii) When different platoons which are not ordinarily 
organized as a company are temporarily grouped into 
company units for the period of training in camp, it is 
advisable, in order to help towards an easier and more 
exact settlement of bills and other claims, that each platoon 
should draw its own equipment and rations, instead of the 
equipment and rations of the company unit being drawn 
as a whole. The same principle may be applied to different 
companies which are temporarily grouped into battalions 
for camp training. 

2. Camp Quartermaster.— The camp quartermaster must 
proceed to the camping-ground a day or two before the 
arrival of cadets to plan out the camp, take over stores, 
allot tents, camp equipment, etc. Unit commanders 
should give him at least twenty-four hours' notice of the 
time of their arrival, so that he can make the necessary 
arrangements for feeding the cadets. The following duties 
must also be carried out b.y the quartermaster before th« 
arrival of cadets in camp: 



120 



ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS 



(28 



(i) The plan of the camp should be decided, and the 
camp laid out, either with tents already pitched or plaeed 
ready for pitching or with the correct positions for pitching 
them clearly indicated 

(ii) Latrines and washing-places should be prepared, and 
their positions clearly indicated. 

(iii) The camp kitchen should be prepared, and its posi- 
tion clearly indicated. 

(iv) Refreshments should be prepared ready to serve out 
to cadets on arrival. 



OPEN 



c. c 



CWOSE.D 



Yl Inches kort^ 



Fig. 23.— A Square. 



3. Directions for planning a Camp. — The quartermaster, 
with his assistants, will lay out the camp. For this purpose 
he should be provided with a small square and a line. The 
square consists of two narrow pieces of wood, each 12 inches 
long, held together by a screw at one end, so that they can 
Be moved as on a pivot (Fig. 23). ' A line consists of a 
convenient length of cord along which pieces of tape are 
tied at every 7, 8, 9, or 10 yards (Fig. 24). The camp can 
be laid out correctly with the square and line by observing 
the following directions : 



28 



PLANNING CAMPS 



121 



(i) Use of Square and Line. — La)- the square on, or a little 
above, the ground at a position corresponding to one ol 
the corners of the camp. Open it at a right-angle, as 
shown in Fig. 23. Fix a flag on the ground at the point 
corresponding to that marked A in Fig. 23. To determine 
the straight lines which will run at right-angles from this 
flag to mark two sides of the camp, look along the square, 
and with the help of assistants fix flags in the ground at a 
convenient distance away from the flag at A according to 
the size of the camp, sp that the positions of these two 



>» ;l :'s 

)» si st 

>: a ;» 



Fig. 24.— Lines marking the Position of Tents. 

flags respectively make a continuation of the straight lines 
A — C and A — B, shown in Fig. 23, as seen along the 
square when held at the point A. The lines corresponding 
with the other two sides of the camp may be found in the 
same way by using the square as already described at the 
points marked by the flags at C or B, when its area will be 
indicated by four flags forming a true square. 

(ii) After the area of the camp is marked out by four 
flags in the above manner, the position of the tents may be 
ascertained by stretching one or more lines along the 
ground in the manner shown in Fig. 24. The tapes will 



122 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS 128 

mark the place where the poles of the terrts^ehould rest. 
A small peg should be driven into the ground aVe^ch tape. 
The line should then be removed, leaving the camp planned 
out by the flags and pegs. The tents may then be 
erected. 

(iii) Shape and Size. — The shape and size of a camp will, 
subject to the following general rules, be determined by 
the nature of the ground. 

(iv) Space. — Units should not be cramped for space more 
than is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, the 
dimensions of a camp or bivouac must not be increased 
unduly, as a straggling camp entails extra fatigue duties 
and delay in circulating orders. 

(v) Street. — In large camps, such as those for a brigade 
or larger numbers, one main centre and one main cross 
street must run the entire length and breadth of the 
camp. 

(vi) Interval between Units. — The usual interval between 
units is 10 yards. Between the companies of a battalion 
the interval may be reduced to 3 yards . 

(vii) Interval between Tents. — The interval between tents 
will depend upon the size of the ground. A 7-yards interval 
is sufficient as a minimum. Eight or nine yards may t>e 
allowed if space is available, but a maximum of 10 yards 
between tents should not be exceeded. 

(viii) Latrines and Washing-Places. — The position of latrines 
and washing-places should be the first consideration in 
planning camps. They should be placed on the leeward 
side of camp. Their position should be concealed from 
view, and hidden by trees or shrubs if possible. They 
should also be enclosed by screens, which may be 
improvised with canvas or sack-cloth, or with hurdles 
interlaced with branches or undergrowth. 

(ix) Cooking-Places. — These should, if possible, be in rear 
of the camp, and as far as possible fro'm the latrines. 



291 PITCH-ING AND STRIKING TENTS 123 

(x) Officers' and N.C.O.'s Mess. — In camps where a separate 
mess is organized for officers and non-commissioned officers, 
space for these messes must be provided by the quarter- 
master in planning the camp. 

(xi) Notice-Board* and Plan. — Notice-boards should be put 
up Showing the position* of offices, washing-places, refuse- 
pits, latrines, etc., and a plan of the camp should be on 
view near the commandant's tent. 

(xii) Precautions against Fire. — If a camp is pitched in or near 
long dry grass or heather, special precautions must be 
taken against fire. If possible, undergrowth should be 
cleared away from the vicinity of tents. 

(xiii) Inspection. — Early on the day on which cadets arrive in 
camp the quartermaster will inspect the camp, and satisfy 
himself that the tent accommodation is sufficient, and that 
the arrangements for receiving cadets are quite completed. 

Section 29. — Pitching and Striking Tents. 

1. General Remarks. — Tents may be pitched when the 
camp is laid out ready for occupation by troops on arrival 
in camp. This plan is preferable in wet or uncertain 
weather, as men are assured of shelter and dry accom- 
modation at the end of their journey. In fine weather, 
however, tents may be set down by the quartermaster and 
his assistants in the positions marked for them by pegs 
when the camp is laid out. Each tent will then be unpacked 
and pitched by a squad chosen from the cadets told off 
to it after arrival in camp. When this is done, cadets may 
be practised in unpacking and pitching tents simulta- 
neously by orders or signals from the commanding officer. 
In the same way tents may be struck and packed by cadets 
themselves before they leave camp, or arrangements may 
be made for striking and packing them after the departure 
of units. 



i2 4 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS (29 

2. Pitching a Tent. — (i) Tent squads consisting of six 
men in charge of the senior soldier as leader, will be told 
off for pitching tents. The leader will first number off 
the men of his squad from i to 6. Their respective 
duties according to their number is as follows: No. i, 
front-rank poleman; No. 2, rear-rank poleman; Nos. 3 
and 4, pegmen; Nos. 5 and 6, packers. The packers will 
perform the duty of unpacking as well as packing the 
tents. 

(ii) The leader will superintend the work of the squad. 
He will see that the pole is placed on the spot marked 
for it by the peg, that it is upright, that the door is 
properly placed as to direction, that the cords are stretched 
in line with the seams of the tent, and that the slides are 
made fast at equal distances between the tent and pegs. 
He will also enforce silence and order while the work is 
being carried out. 

(iii) When the squad is ready to pitch the tent, No 1 
will stand with his heels on either side of the peg marking 
the spot where the tent-pole is to rest, and remove the 
peg. The rear-rank poleman having joined the two pieces 
of the pole together, will hand it to the front-rank poleman. 
The pegmen at the same time will distribute the pegs 
where they will be at hand when required, and drive in 
four pegs in the proper positions for holding the front 
and rear-angled ropes. Nos, 5 and 6 will unpack the tent, 
and spread it out flat on the ground with the tent door 
fastened and uppermost, so that it forms a triangle, 
the base of which should be one pace away from the 
feet of No. 1, with the apex pointing in the direction of 
the prevailing wind, which should previously be indicated 
to the leader of the squad, or towards the tents in the 
rear. 

(iv) The polemen then fit one end of the pole into the 
cap in the apex of the tent, and place the other end between 



29] PITCHING AND STRIKING TENTS 123 

the heels of No. I. The pegmen each take one of the two 
front-angled ropes, which are not marked in any way, and 
the two packers each take one of the two rear-angled ropes 
which are marked in red to distinguish them from the 
others. The leader will then give the command Raise' 
tents, when the pole will be elevated by Nos. 1 and 2, 
the former getting inside the tent to keep the pole in a 
vertical position and to take care that it rests on the ground 
in the correct spot. The four angle ropes will then be 
pegged down by the pegmen and packers to hold the tent 
in position. No. 2 must take care that the door of the tent 
faces in the right direction, and that it is still fastened. 
Finally, the pegmen will peg down the other ropes of the 
tent, working round from left to right. The leader will 
take charge of the tent-bag and mallets when the tent is 
pitched. 

3. Tent Doors. — In pitching tents the position of the 
doors should as a rule face away from the prevailing 
wind Their position may, however, be changed subse- 
quently, if necessary for any reason. 

4. Digging a Trench. — As soon as the tent is pitched, two 
cadets from each squad will cut drains round the bottom 
of the tent walls, and heap the earth inside the flap. If 
necessary, surface drains may be constructed to prevent 
rain-water lodging in the trenches. In the case of cadet 
camps the consent of the owner of the land on which the 
camp is pitched should be obtained before trenches are 
dug. A hole 6 inches deep may also be dug close to the 
tent-pole, so that if heavy rain comes on suddenly the 
tent-pole can be pushed into the hole, and much strain 
will be taken off the canvas, ropes, and pegs. 

5. Driving in Pegs. — Tent-pegs should be driven into the 
ground as follows : Determine the spot, turn with back to 
the tent, stoop with peg in left hand and mallet in right, 
place-the peg with point on the ground and the head inclined 



126 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [30 

outwards at an angle of 45 degrees, give a couple of taps 
with the mallet, then stand up and give two or three hard 
blows with the mallet, which in ordinary ground will be 
sufficient to drive the peg well home. 

3. Striking a Tent. — No. 1 will get inside the tent, No. 2 
will fasten the door, which should not again be unfastened. 
The pegmen and packers will pull out the pegs except those 
which hold the front and rear-angled ropes, and pack them 
in the bag. The pegmen and packers will then take hold 
of the front and rear-angled ropes, as in para, (iv), p. 124, 
while the pegs* holding them are drawn by No. 2, with the 
help of the senior cadet if necessary. All pegs will be put 
into the bag as they are drawn. Finally, the leader 
will give the command Strike tents, when the tent will 
be lowered backwards and pulled out flat on the ground. 
The ropes will be rolled up round the slides, and placed so 
that they will not appear when the tent is folded up, which 
will be done carefully by the packers. The leader will 
see that the tent, pegs, and mallets are all closed up in 
the tent valise. Por directions regarding the striking of 
tents and their return to store at the close of camp, see 
Sec. 32, para. 3. 



Section 30. — Transport. 

1. Army transport, other than by rail and water, consists 
of the mechanical and horse-drawn waggons of the Army 
Service Corps. If this transport proves insufficient in times 
of emergency, or is unobtainable, other arrangements are 
made for the hire of transport of various kinds from public 
and private sources. The problem of transport for cadet 
camps or billets depends to a great extent upon local 
facilities and the funds available. But as a fundamental 
principle this item of expense should be reduced to a 



30] TRANSPORT 127 

minimum by selecting suitable accommodation as near as 
possible to the headquarters of cadet units, reducing equip- 
ment to a minimum, and by carrying out the work of trans- 
port as far as possible through the cadets themselves with 
the aid of handcarts or other suitable means. 

2. Hire 0! Transport. — When the transport has to be 
hired, an officer must be selected to undertake the duty ot 
transport officer. He must obtain from the camp secre- 
tary a fairly accurate estimate of the numbers coming to 
camp, and from the quartermaster an estimate of the camp 
stores and their weight, for which transport will be required. 
He must then ascertain what farmers, tradesmen, carriers, 
or other persons in the neighbourhood are willing to hire 
out or perhaps lend their carts and horses. He should 
obtain this information in plenty of time, so that there is no 
chance of his arrangements for conveyance of the camp 
equipment and cadets' baggage to the camp falling through. 
The most likely sources from which to hire transport in tht 
United Kingdom are railway companies, farmers, grocers 
brewers, and tradesmen whose business necessitates the 
work of delivery or carrying. 

3. Duties of Transport Officer. — Besides those above men- 
tioned the duties of a brigade or camp transport officer are 
as follows : 

(i) He should find out beforehand the time and places ol 
arrival of all battalions, companies, and contingents. 

(ii) Ar-inge for Waggons to be present to carry kits, and 
send details to the officer commanding Army Service Corps, 
giving the names and numbers of battalions, companies, 
and contingents, weight of baggage, and times and day of 
arrival. When civilian transport is hired, he will arrange 
for the waggons, etc., to meet the trains. 

(iii) Arrange with railway companies as to special trains 
to take cadets away on break up of camp, and settle with 
the Army Service Corps or owners of hired transport the time 



128 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [30 

of arrival of transport at camp, and where it should 
parade. 

(iv) Special coloured labels should be issued so that the kits 
going by the same train should be labelled the same colour. 

(v) Arrange with the railway company to send a clerk to 
camp the day before departure to sell tickets. This saves 
the congestion which crowds cause at small railway- 
stations. 

(vi> Arrange with tne Army Service Corps or Owners of 
hired transport to convey heavy baggage to the station 
after the cadets have gone. 

(vii) If there are any horses for transport purposes in 
camp, he is responsible for their feeding and grooming, etc. 

4. Cost of Hiring Transport. — (i) It is impossible to give 
particulars regarding cost of hiring transport from private 
sources in >different parts of the Empire if transport cannot 
b«r obtained from official sources, as the cost will vary 
considerably and be influenced by numerous factors. The 
cost in any locality may, however, be ascertained easily by 
inquiries. The following estimates give only an approxi- 
mate rate of hiring in England for certain classes of vehicles, 
and may vary considerably according to the time ui year, 
the supply of wheeled traffic available for transport in any 
neighbourhood, and for other reasons. 

(ii) When hiring civilian vehicles the contract is generally 
to carry a certain load. The usual undertaking is to hire 
a one-horse cart to carry i ton, or a pair-horse waggon to 
carry 2 tons. For transport from place to place the usual 
arrangement made is to pay tonnage rate of about is. 6d. 
per mile per ton carted. In hiring vehicles for camp 
duties per diem about £i a day is usually paid for the services 
of two horses, a driver, and large waggon, while about ios. 
a day may be paid for a one-horse van or cart to carry a 
ton load together with the services of a driver. 

\ Table of Loads for Transport.— The table on p. 129, 
which shows the approximate number of bell-tents and 



30 



TRANSPORT 



129 



weight of kits which may be loaded on different classes of 
trucks, waggons, and carts, both military and civilian, may 
be of assistance to transport officers in calculating the 
amount of transport they require. 

6. Packing and Loading Equipment. — The following 
general directions are given for packing equipment on 



Description of Transport. 


Number of 
Bell Tents* 


Weight 0) 
Kits 


Traction, Government — 
3^-ton truck 
4-ton truck 
5-ton truck 


98 
112 

140 


4 tons. 
4 tons. 
4 tons. 


Horse-drawn, Government — 
General service waggon 
Forage cart, 2 horses 
Forage cart, 1 horse 


38 
19 
15 


22 cwt. 
1,200 lbs. 
1,200 lbs. 


Horse-drawn, civilian — 

4 -wheeled farmer's waggon, 3 

horses 
2-w.heeled farmer's cart, 1 horse . . 
2-wheeled grocer's hooded cart . . 
4 -wheeled brewer's hooded waggon 


84 

28 
M 
56 


3 tons. 
1,670 lbs. 
1,120 lbs. 
2 to 2 l tons 



various kinds of transport-waggons and carts. As a rule no 
transport vehicle should be overloaded, especially when bad 
or heavy roads or long distances have to be traversed, so as 
to minimize the risk of breakdown or delays, and to avoid 
unduly exhausting horses. It is the duty of the transport 
officer to see that transport vehicles are not overloaded. 

* When tents are to be carried, the full weight can always be loaded, 
as they are easily packed, except in wet weather, when the weight may 
be increased by as much as 25 per cent. 



130 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS (31 

7. General Rules. — Articles which will be required first 
on unloading equipment should be packed on top of the 
load. When the vehicle is loaded high ropes should be 
passed over the contents and made fast to the sides of the 
vehicle so as to hold the load securely in place. On the 
march no one except the driver must be on a loaded transport 
vehicle without thefepecial permission of the transport officer. 

8. Waggons and Carts. — When packing a jour-wheeled 
waggon the heavy articles should be placed at the bottom 
covering the back axle as much as possible. When packing 
a two-wheeled cart the heaviest articles should be placed 
directly over the axle, and the other articles so distributed 
that the cart will balance as nearly as possible when lifted 
up by the pole or shafts. 

9. Handcarts. — Small light two-wheeled handcarts are 
suitable for transport for cadet corps when the numbers 
attending camp are not large, and when the distance to be 
traversed by road is not long. These carts will necessarily 
carry light loads, as they ar.e drawn by cadets themselves 
in frequent relays. They should be loaded on the same 
principle as two-wheeled carts, and the general rules in para, y 
above should also be observed so far as they are applicable. 
An increased load may be carried if light, skeleton side, front 
and rear boards can be added to the cart as a removable 
superstructure. When this is done drag ropes must be 
attached to the axles so that a greater number of cadets can 
assist in pulling. Drag-ropes will in any case be useful in 
dragging handcarts uphill, and for easing the weight in 
going downhill. 

Section 31. — Journey to and from Camp. 

1. If effect can be given to the principle of arranging 
camps and billets as near headquarters as possible, so that 
cadets can march part or even the whole way, the journey 



31] JOURNEY TO AND FROM CAMP 131 

should neither take up much time nor involve much expense 
either for fares or transport. In addition to these important 
considerations, a short journey is preferable to a long one, 
because it is less likely to tire cadets at the commencement 
of their training. Care must be taken in arranging the 
journey, whatever may be its length or nature, to guard 
against overtiring cadets. 

2. Day of Arrival and Departure. — (i) The best day for 
the journey to camps or billets will depend upon circum- 
stances, but as a rule cadets should arrive on a Saturday 
to avoid travelling on Sunday, although arrival on Sunday 
is preferable to arrival on Monday. If cadets arrive on 
Saturday they will have plenty of time to settle down 
and obtain, a rest before commencing their training on 
Monday 

(ii) The day of departure will again depend upon circum- 
stances, particularly the period of time for which cadets can 
attend for training. If a week is available, cadets may 
depart on Saturday or Sunday afternoon. If possible, they 
might break up and depart on Monday morning. As a rule 
the longer the time which can be spent in training the greater 
from every point of view will be the benefit to cadets. 

.3. Entraining and Detraining. — (i) If the journey is 
made by rail arrangements should be made — in the case of 
cadet corps by the camp secretary — with the railway com- 
pany to reserve the necessary accommodation. Coaches to 
be occupied by cadets should be examined by an officer, 
accompanied by a railway official, before they entrain, to 
note any deficiencies or damage for which the railway 
company might otherwise hold cadets responsible at the end 
of the journey. Carriages should be marked to show the 
particular units and ranks for which they are reserved. 
Before entraining, a baggage-guard to look after the 
baggage on arrival and take it safely to its destination 
must be detailed. 



132 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [32 

(ii) During the journey cadets must not leave their 
carriages without the permission of an officer. Absolute 
silence must be kept while the train is moving out from or 
running into stations. On arrival at the end of the railway 
journey officers will get out and go straight to the coaches 
occupied by their units. Cadets will not get out of the 
train till the order to do so is given by the officer com- 
manding. When the order is given cadets will leave the 
train and fall in in two ranks facing the train. Units will 
then move out of the station in file, and form up outside the 
station. If required by the railway authorities, carriages 
will be examined and any breakages or deficiencies attribut- 
able to the cadets will be noted. 

4. Baggage-Guard. — On detraining the men detailed as 
baggage-guard will proceed to unload the ^baggage, and 
place it on the transport waggons. Having loaded it up, the 
baggage-party will follow the remainder of the detachment 
to camp, marching with the baggage. No cadets must ride 
in the waggons or place their rifles or equipment in the 
waggons. The cadet officer or N.C.O. commanding the 
baggage-party will report its arrival to the commander of 
his unit. Each unit will have two or more cadets told off 
as baggage-guard for its own baggage, so that there is no 
chance of its being mixed up with that of other units. 

Section 32. — Arrival in Camp. 

1. It is important that cadets should arrive in camp to 
commence their training comparatively fresh and in good 
spirits. Care must be taken to avoid bringing them into 
camp tired or dispirited, more especially in wet or gloomy 
weather. Care must also be taken to insure that all 
arrangements made to receive them are completed punc- 
tually, so that they can be provided on arrival with refresh- 
ment, and allowed time to rest before they undertake the 



32] ARRIVAL IN CAMP 133 

various fatigue duties necessary for settling down and 
making themselves comfortable. 

2. A certain amount of fatigue duties will, of course, be 
unavoidable on arrival in camp, but good management 
should' reduce them to a minimum. Finally, the hour of 
arrival should be fixed to allow a good margin for possible 
delays, and so as to insure that cadets reach camps or 
billets fairly early in the afternoon, so that they have 
plenty of time to settle down. Arrangements for receiving 
cadets on arrival may be facilitated in the case of billets, 
if the occupants of houses accommodating cadets would 
undertake to supply the first meal. 

3. First Duties after Arrival. — (i) Report. — The com- 
mander of each unit, or the captain when a company unit 
marches into camp as a whole, will report to the adjutant 
of the battalion to which the unit belongs, or to the camp 
commandant, that his command and the baggage have 
arrived. 

(ii) Camp Quartermaster. — On the arrival jf the cadets, 
the quartermaster will point out and show to the com- 
manding officers the tents to be occupied by their units, 
the positions of latrines, ablution -places, and where the 
camp equipment and stores should be drawn. He will also 
inform them as to the number of cadets required for drawing 
equipment and stores, and for other duties if necessary. 

(iii) Orders. — Before dismissal the commander of each 
unit will point out to cadets the position of the latrines, 
ablution-places, the tents they are to occupy, and the 
place where camp equipment and stores will be drawn. 
He must also read out to them any particular orders which 
may have been given him by the camp commandant, 
adjutant, or quartermaster. 

(iv) Tent Squads will then be told off ; the cadets will remove 
their accoutrements, and put them away in their tents. 

(v) Baggage will be unloaded. 



134 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS 33 

(vi) Drawing Equipment and Stores. — Parties to draw camp 
equipment, rations, blankets, mattresses, etc., will be told off. 

(vii) Issue of Equipment — The quartermaster will issue 
camp equipment. A cadet officer of each unit will be 
present at the issue of equipment, and will sign the quarter- 
master's book for articles received. A cadet officer of each 
unit will also be present at bed-filling if straw mattresses 
are used, and will be responsible that all litter is cleared up. 

(viii) Dismiss. — Cadets will not be dismissed finally till 
equipment, rations, and stores have been drawn and dis- 
tributed. Unit commanders will satisfy themselves that 
their lines are properly arranged before cadets are dismissed. 

4. Marching in States.* — As soon after arrival in camp 
as possible each unit will send in a Marching in State. 
The greatest care should be taken by all concerned in the 
compilation of this return, as it is most important for the 
quartermasters and other staff officers to know the exact 
numbers in camp. 

Section 33. — Return of Equipment. 

1. Procedure. — When the camp breaks up, the following 
procedure will be carried out with respect to the return of 
camp equipment : 

(i) The quartermaster will arrange the hour for the 
return of the camp equipment. 

(ii) All camp equipment on charge to units will be re- 
turned by them to the quartermaster's stores. The 
quartermaster will arrange for its reception at his stores, 
and will allot a space on which each unit will place its own 
equipment. 

(iii) Unit commanders must attend at the quarter- 
master's stores until the whole of their camp equipment 
is returned. 

A specimen Marching in State, both for a company unit and a 
battalion, Will be found in the Appendix. 



34] RETURN OF EQUIPMENT 135 

(iv) Deficiencies noted on return of camp equipment will 
be charged against the units responsible. 

2. General Equipment. — (i) The quartermaster will see 
that beds, if straw mattresses have been in use, are 
emptied at the selected place, the straw stacked, and the 
ground swept cte'an round the stack. 

(ii) Blankets will be rolled in bundles of ten, waterproof 
sheets in tens, palliasses in twenties, bolsters in twenties, 
and other articles as most convenient. 

3. Tents.— (i) On the day before the return of the camp 
equipment, tent-bottoms, if used, will be removed from 
the tents, and neatly piled at a place appointed by the 
quartermaster. 

(ii) On the morning of departure, weather permitting, 
the tents will be struck and piled at a place appointed by 
the quartermaster. Tents only should be in the tent 
valise. The peg-bags, with pegs and mallets, should be 
made into a separate pile. The poles of the tents should be 
neatly piled, crossing each other in alternate layers. 

(iii) As wet canvas, or even canvas that is damp, cannot 
be returned to ordnance store, special instructions will be 
issued by the quartermaster as to whether the tents are to 
be struck before the cadets leave camp, or whether they are 
to be left standing. 

Section 34. — General Arrangements for Cadet 
Billets. 

1. It is impossible to deal with the arrangements for 
cadet billets except on very general lines, as these arrange- 
ments will have to be adapted by cadet officers to suit very 
varying conditions. As far as this is possible, the arrange- 
ments for camps contained in Sees. 27 to 32 of this chapter 
may be applied with necessary modifications to the ar- 
rangements for billets. For instance, an organization com- 



T36 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [34 

mittee and its secretary should be appointed to make the 
arrangements which, as regards taking over and returning 
necessary stores, such as blankets, the transport of equip- 
ment and the journey to and from the locality of the billets, 
will be much the same as in the case of camps. A com- 
mandant must also be appointed to command units in 
billets, with the help of a staff of officers. 

2. Nature of Billets. — Arrangements may be made for 
billets with or without subsistence ; that is to say, arrange- 
ments may be made for food to be supplied in billets, or 
in the alternative billets will provide merely shelter without 
food. In the latter case arrangements must be made on 
the lines laid down for camps for supplying and cooking 
food, and, if necessary, for a mess-room or tent. In every 
case the best and most convenient arrangements must be 
made according to circumstances. 

3. Choice of Billets. — The secretary, having first obtained 
particulars of the different units and total numbers for 
which billets are required, should, if possible, personally 
inspect and choose the accommodation. He may, if 
necessary, be accompanied by the quartermaster and an 
officer from each unit. The secretary must satisfy himself 
in regard to the sanitary conditions and water-supply of 
the billets, and also that no case of infectious disease 
has recently occurred in either the billets or the immediate 
locality. 

c. Allotment of Billets. — The secretary and those assisting 
him will then allot the billets to the various units. Units 
should be kept together and grouped as far as possible 
according to the localities from which they come. 

5. General Arrangements. — The camp secretary and 
quartermaster will also make arrangements for a guard- 
room, a sick-inspection room, an alarm post, headquarters, 
and the addresses or other directions regarding the position 
of these places, accompanied, if necessary, bv a sketch plan 



34] CADET BILLETS 137 

showing their position, should be sent to the officer com- 
manding each unit. 

6. Information regarding Billets. — Full details of the 
address of the billets allotted to each unit, with the number 
to be accommodated in each, must then be communicated 
by the secretary to the officer commanding each unit before 
cadets start. These details should, if necessary, be accom- 
panied by written directions, and a rough sketch clearly 
showing the position of the billets and the way to them 
from the route of march or from the railway-station. In 
addition, the officer from each unit who has assisted in 
choosing the billet may be told off to meet his unit at the 
railway- station or a point on the route of march, and act as 
guide. 

7. The officer commanding each unit should see that the 
officer, N.C.O., or senior cadet in charge of each party of 
his cadets which is told off to a separate billet, knows the 
address of the billet, and has a written list of the ftames 
of the cadets to be accommodated in the billet, and the 
number to be accommodated in each room. The officer or 
cadet in charge of each party in billets should also be 
informed as to the position of the headquarters, guard- 
room, sick-inspection room, and alarm post, and should 
see that every cadet of his party knows the position of 
these places. 

8. Sanitation in Billets. — Besides the precautions taken 
by the secretary with regard to the sanitary condition of 
the water-supply in billets and the health of the locality, 
careful rules must be made to guard the water-supply from 
the danger of pollution, and, if necessary, the same ar- 
rangements as those laid down in Chapter V. must be 
made for the provision and sanitation of washing-places, 
latrines, kitchens, etc., and for the disposal of rubbish, 
refuse, and dirty water. When the same billets are 
to be used by successive parties of cadets, it is of the 



138 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [35 

utmost importance that they should be left scrupulously 
clean. 

9. Arrival in Billets. — The owners or persons in charge of 
billets should be notified by the commanding officer re- 
garding the hour at which cadets will arrive, so that they 
may be prepared. They should also be notified as to the 
preparation of refreshments or meals, if these are to be 
provided by them. The considerations mentioned in con- 
nection with camps must be taken into account in deciding 
the time of arrival in billets. As soon as possible after 
arrival an officer should visit the cadets of each unit in 
their billets to inspect the same, see that they are clean, 
and that the cadets are comfortable, and to deal with com- 
plaints or requests. He must read out to the cadets any 
orders from the commanding officer, and inform them as 
to places out of bounds and other necessary directions, 
including the alarm signal in case of fire, or when for other 
reasons cadets are required to fall in at the alarm post. 

Section 35. — Routine. 

1. Value of Routine. — A well-planned and efficient 
scheme of routine is necessary for the successful organiza- 
tion and management of cadet camps and billets, as well 
as for satisfactory results in training. Routine is also of 
great value in the development of character. It will help 
to inculcate in cadets habits of order, punctuality, discipline, 
and the sense of responsibility, and will help to make them 
exact and reliable in the performance of duty. Routine 
will also help to develop in cadets the power of co-operating 
faithfully and intelligently with others for a common end 
under the orders of their leaders. 

2. Table of Routine. — It is impossible to lay down a fixed 
scheme of routine for cadet camps and billets. The routine 
in the table on p. 139 is suggested as a rough guide to cadet 



35] ROUTINE 139 

officers, who must adapt it to suit particular conditions 
under which their commands are trained. It serves to lay 
down the general principles of camp training in regard to 
hours of work, instruction, recreation, and meals upon 
lines suitable for cadets. _The table refers to weekdays 
only, the routine for Sundays being left for decision by the 
officers. 

3. Notes on Table of Routine. — The arrangements in this 
or any other table of routine may have to be modified both 

TABLE OF ROUTINE. 

a.m. 
Reveille .. .. • .. . . 6.0. 

Issue of tea or cocoa and biscuits . . 6 30. 
Saluting the flag ... .. .. 7.0. 

Company parade .. .. .. 7.15 to 8.15. 

Sick parade .. ... .. . .' 7.30. 

Breakfast . . . . . . . . 8.30. 

Inspection of lines by CO. .. .. 9.30. 

Instruction .. .. .. .. 10.15 to n.o. 

Instruction .. .. .. .. 11.30 to 12.15 p.m. 

p.m. 

Dinner . . . . . . , . 1.0. 

Instruction .. .. .. .. 2.30 to 3.30. 

Tea ...... . . . . . . 5.0. 

Guard mounting . . . . . . 6.0. 

Retreat . . . . . . . . 7.0. 

Officers' dinner .. .. .. 7.30. 

First post .. .. .. ., 9.0. 

Last post . . . . . . . . 9.30. 

Lights out . . . . . . . . 9.45. 

as to the hours for meals and other particulars, when this 
is rendered necessary by the scheme of instruction for the 
day. For instance, cadets may not return to quarters for 
dinner at 1 p.oi. during field exercises, but take their rations 



i 4 o ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS 35 

with them to be eaten when convenient. The hours of 
first and last post and lights out may have to be altered 
when cadets are being trained in night operations. 
-Guard mounting may be dispensed with when necessary, 
and cadets who feel unwell may be ordered to report them- 
selves at once at the hospital tent or sick-inspection room 
instead of waiting to attend sick parade at definite hours. 
Routine, in short, to a certain extent must be elastic and 
capable of modification when necessary. 

4. Monlling States. — Each unit should render a morning 
state to the adjutant as soon as possible every morning. 
If the camp is a large one, consisting of more than one 
battalion, officers commanding will render a morning state 
to the brigade-major 'or camp commandant. A specimen 
morning state will be found in the Appendix. 

5. Saluting the Flag. — The equipment of every cadet 
camp should include a National Flag, with a portable flag- 
staff. The staff should be fixed at a convenient place on 
the parade ground. Every morning at the company parade, 
with which the day's work will commence, and on cere- 
monial occasions, the cadets should be drawn up facing 
the flagstaff. At a given signal a cadet officer or N. C. O. 
should break the flag at the head of the staff. When the 
flag breaks all officers and cadets must stand facing it 
at the salute. Then at a given signal the cadets should 
sing one verse of the national anthem, accompanied by 
the band of the corps if it is provided with one. 

6. Roll-Calls. — (i) The roll-calls in cadet camps and billets 
should be decided by the camp commandant. Reveille, 
breakfast, dinner, tea, and last post are convenient times 
for roll-calls. In addition, if necessary, a surprise or a 
check roll-call may be ordered at uncertain periods and 
hours, as, for instance, between first post and reveille. 



35] ROUTINE 141 

The most convenient and efficient form and time of calling 
the roll and collecting reports is by deputing the orderly 
officer, accompanied by the battalion orderly, on the 
second bugle sounding for breakfast and for dinner, to 
receive reports from the N.C O. in charge of each mess 
whether in dining-tents, sleeping-tents or billets, when 
he goes his rounds to inspect the meal and inquire for 
complaints. v£ 

(ii) The roll-call at reveille could be performed by the 
battalion orderly in like manner. At present on reveille 
sounding he usually visits every tent or barrack-room to 
rouse the occupants, or to see that they have been awak- 
ened. At last post the same procedure could be followed, 
the battalion orderly making a list of absentees by com- 
panies, and receive from the company orderly-sergeant at 
the company orderly-sergeants' tent a list of N.C.O.'s and 
men on pass. Defaulters and pickets, etc ., if necessary, could 
be paraded at the guard -tent on first post sounding, and be 
back in their tents for final roll-call. 

7. Bugle Calls.— (i) Much bugling in camp becomes a 
nuisance. In large camps, when regular hours for parade 
are kept, it is best to have one general sounding carried 
out for the whole brigade from a central position in the 
camp. If necessary the call can be sounded twice — once 
towards one flank, and once towards the other flank of 
the camp. Bugling in cadet camps should be reduced to 
a minimum. The following calls may be sounded if 
necessary: 

Reveille. J Officers' dinner (dress). 



Sick parade. 
Breakfasts. 
Warning for parades. 
First call — dinners. 
Dinners 



Officers' dinner. 

Retreat. 

First and last posts. 

Lights out. 

Ration call (when ordered) 



« 4 2 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [35 

(ii) Markers and Fall In. — Such calls as markers and fall 
in are unnecessary if the discipline in the camp is good, and 
the cadets are intelligent and punctual. There should be a 
standing order in each battalion that company markers 
will fall in under the sergeant-major of the battalion five 
minutes before the hour ordered for parade, and that the 
whole battalion should be standing on parade at the hour 
fixed for parade, companies having been inspected by their 
company officers in their own lines. If this system is regu- 
larly carried out, the adjutant can report the battalion 
present or otherwise to the commanding officer at the 
exact moment ordered for parade, and there will be no need 
for the babel of bugles which generally takes place in large 
camps unless strict orders are issued to prevent an excessive 
and unnecessary amount of bugling. 

(iii) Orderly-Sergeants and Corporals. — Non-commissioned 
officers acting as sergeant-majors are far too apt to be 
continually sounding for orderly-sergeants or orderly- 
corporals. Except when the matter is urgent most of the 
orders or information which the sergeant-major requires to 
give out can be issued at detail — i.e., the hour in the day 
when the orderly-sergeants assemble at his tent to take 
down battalion orders, and make out the duties for the 
following day — or he can give out what he wants to on the 
numerous other occasions when orderly-sergeants are 
assembled during the day — for instance, before or at the 
end of a parade, at last post, or before any of the meals. 
This habit of sounding for orderly sergeants unnecessarily 
should be checked by the adjutant of the battalion. 

8. Duties of Brigade Staff Officers and Non-Commis- 
sioned Officers.* — (i) The following directions regarding the 
duties of various officers and N.C.O.'s in relation to camp 
routine contained in this section are set out so as to permit 

• The duties oi a brigade or camp transport officer have been dealt 
with ic Sec. 29 



35] ROUTINE 143 

of the organization of battalion or 'even brigade camps, and 
as a guide to soldiers generally. These rules can, of course, 
be adapted by cadet officers to the routine of smaller camps, 
such as company and platoon unit camps. But the method 
adopted during camp routine is consistent with the scope 
of this manual, which includes the organization and arrange- 
ment of cadet camps for the training of a battalion, or larger 
numbers, although it favours the smaller company and 
platoon unit camps as being generally more practicable and 
convenient. 

(ii) The Brigadier or Camp Commandant — (a) He is respon- 
sible; for the maintenance of discipline, efficiency, and 
proper system in the camp. 

(b) He will supervise the training of the various battalions 
or companies, but he will interfere as little as possible with the 
methods employed by his battalion or company commanders 
to train their men when carried out on the right lines. 

(c) He will be held responsible for the return of all 
Government stores or equipment issued or hired for the use 
of the camp. 

(d) He will hold a periodical inspection of the lines, 
and will particularly concern himself with the sanitation of 
the camp and the feeding of the cadets. 

{e) Before the break-up of the camp he should preside at 
a meeting of staff and officers to discuss matters relating 
to the camp, and any suggestions for the improvement of 
the arrangements in succeeding years which may be brought 
forward. 

(iii) The Brigadier-Major, or Camp Adjutant — (a) He is the 
confidential staff officer and assistant to the brigadier or 
camp commandant. 

(b) He signs and issues all orders emanating from the 
brigadier or camp commandant. 

(c) He details all officers for brigade duties and the 
battalion on duty for the day. 



144 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [35 

(d) He is responsible for the correctness of the daily state 
of the camp. 

(e) On all parades under the brigadier or camp com- 
mandant he will place the markers when they are required. 

(/) He will collect reports from commanders of units on 
these parades, and himself report the result to the brigadier 
or camp commandant. 

(g) He must avoid any interference in battalion matters;, 
if he has reason to consider that anything is wron£, it is his 
duty to report the same to the brigadier, who will take any 
action he may consider necessary. 

(h) He will keep a diary, and assist the brigadier or camp 
commandant to compile the report on the working of . the 
camp if One is called for after the break-up of the camp. 

(ivf The Brigade or Camp Quartermaster. — Where a large 
number o/ c adels are collected for camp training, it may be 
advisable to obtain the services of a regular officer as camp 
or brigade quartermaster. This officer should as a rule 
be a regimental quartermaster, and his duties would consist 
of the whole of the administration of the camp, except drill, 
field instruction, and discipline. The following would come 
under his orders. 

(a) Laying out and arrangement of the camp. 
{b) The feeding of all except officers. 

(c) Cooking. 

(d) Distribution of food to battalions. 

(e) Sanitation. 
(/) Scavenging. 

He will also draw from the Ordnance Stores or contractor 
the camp equipment required, and return same. In this 
he will be helped by quartermasters of the battalions, and, 
if possible, the latter will draw from and return to the 
Ordnance Stores or contractor the camp equipment for their 
own battalions. 



35] ROUTINE i 45 

(v) Chaplain. — He is responsible for the spiritual welfare 
of all in camp. He will arrange the hours of service in con- 
sultation with the brigadier. It will be advisable if he is 
made permanent manager of all musical entertainments, 
and secretary of the camp sports committee for the organi- 
zation of amusements generally. 

(vi) Medical Officer. — The medical officer is responsible to 
the brigadier or camp commandant for the general health 
of ail in camp. He must keep a very watchful eve over 
all matters which have to do with the health of cadets and 
the sanitation of the camp, and report to the brigadier or 
camp commandant any sanitary irregularities, and advise 
him generally on these matters. 

(vii) Brigade or Camp Sergeant-Major. — The brigade or camp 
sergeant-major is under the orders of the brigade major or 
camp adjutant. If brigade or camp guards other than 
battalion guards are mounted, he will detail them and be 
present when they mount. If there is a staff-sergeants' 
mess he is responsible to the brigade major or camp 
adjutant for its proper conduct. 

(viii) The Brigade Quartermaster Sergeant and Sergeant Master Cook 
are under the orders of the brigade or camp quarter- 
master. 

9. Duties o! Battalion Officers and Non-Commissioned 
Officers — (i) Battalion Commander. — (a) The battalion or half- 
battalion commander is responsible to his brigadier or 
camp commandant in exactly the same manner as the 
latter is responsible to his superiors. The feeding and 
the general care for the health of the men under his 
command are matters of as much importance as their 
training. He should make it his business to get to know 
all the officers of his battalion 1 , and to study their 
characteristics. 

(b) He should take particular note of the manner in 
which the instructors of the different contingents in his- 



146 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [35 

battalion, if it is a mixed one, perform their duties. If he 
considers that any one of them is lacking in the qualities 
necessary for the satisfactory performance of his duties, he 
should bring the matter to the notice of the brigade-major 
or camp adjutant, who will inform the brigadier or camp 
commandant. 

(c) He is responsible for the correct and punctual render- 
ing of all reports and returns called for by the brigade-major 
or camp adjutant. He should interest himself in the 
recreation and games of his men, and generally do his 
utmost to make the time spent in camp instructive and 
enjoyable for the officers and men under his command. 

(ii) Adjutant. — (a) The adjutant is responsible to the com- 
manding officer for the correct working of all routine details. 

(b) He should reach camp some hours before the arrival 
of the contingents which make up the battalion if it is com- 
posed of different corps. 

(c) He should meet or make arrangements for the meeting 
at the railway-station of all parties or companies which will 
be in his battalion. 

(d) He will carefully check all marching in states, and 
assure himself of their accuracy before the battalion state 
is forwarded to the headquarter office. 

(e) He will detail the captain of the day and the subaltern 
of the day. 

(/) He will sign all orders issued by the commanding 
officer. 

(g) He will endeavour to issue battalion orders as early 
as possible in the day preceding that to which the orders 
apply 

(h) He will mount the. daily duties. 

(t) He should occasionally walk round the sentries, and 
ascertain if the guard duties are being properly performed. 

(;) The clerical work in the battalion orderly-room is 
under his management. 



35] ROUTINE .I47 

(k) All correspondence for the commanding officer from 
officers in the battalion will be addressed to him. 

(/) He will accompany the commanding officer on all his 
Inspections. On parades under the commanding officer he 
will ascertain from the company orderly-sergeants, through 
the sergeant-major, whether any men are absent without 
cause, and report accordingly to the commanding officer. 

(m) He should be up-to-date in his knowledge of the 
number of sick in the battalion. 

(n) He will keep a diary of the work done in camp, and 
note down any information or suggestions which may be of 
future value. 

(o) He will check the daily reports from the captain and 
subaltern of the day. 

(iii) Duties of Battalion Quartermasters. — (a) A quartermaster 
must regard himself as inspector of nuisances in his lines, 
see that men know how to dispose of rubbish and refuse, 
report to the unit commander when necessary ; if without 
effect, to adjutant of battalion. 

(b) He attends parades of battalion orderlies morning 
and evening — i.e., before breakfast and tea— marshals them 
at some convenient spot close to the battalion lines and 
his own tent, sees that all units are present with bags and 
dishes, marches them to the store-tent at the right moment, 
and maintains order there during the issue of the rations 

(c) Receives from the officer of the day or unit commander 
any complaints on matters concerning supplies or issue of 
same, reporting if necessary to the brigade quartermaster. 

{d) Procures in bulk and distributes all emergency 
rations, such as biscuits, buns, etc., being careful to find 
out in good time when they are required, and give notice to 
brigade quartermaster. 

(e) He will call attention of unit commanders to any. 
matter which may*appear irregular, especially with regard 
to the cleanliness of the company lines and utensils. 



148 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [35 

(J) He will inspect the latrines and ablution-places daily 
and report any want of cleanliness to the brigade quarter- 
master. 

(g) He will see that no solid matter is thrnvn into or 
upon the drains at the ablution -places; that the washing- 
tubs are kept free from soap or grease, and that land-drains 
are kept cleared. 

(h) He will attend all battalion inspections ot the 
camp. 

(iv) Sergeant-Major. — (a) He is responsible to- the adjutant 
that all battalion duties for which N.C.O.'s are detailed are 
correctly and punctually performed. 

(b) He will fall in the duties on guard mounting previous 
to the inspection by the adjutant. 

(c) He will parade the orderly-sergeants of companies 
live minutes before the hour fixed for a commanding officer's 
or adjutant's parade, and collect their reports for the infor- 
mation of the adjutant. 

(d) He will cover off the company markers previous to the 
companies marching on to parade under the commanding 
officer or adjutant. 

(e) He will collect the company orderly-sergeants at a 
convenient hour during the day. and detail companies to find 
the men for different duties. To insure the proper work- 
ing of routine details he must be very particular to keep his 
roster of duties up to date. If any man is brought before 
the commanding officer for any reason, he will march him 
into the commanding officer's presence. 

(J) He is responsible for the proper conduct of the 
sergeants' mess, and will preside at the mess meetings. 

(g) All N.CO.'s and men when addressing him will 
stand at attention and say " Sir," but will not salute. 

(h) He will accompany the commanding officer and 
adjutant on all inspections when carried 'out on foot. 

{i) When the brigade or camp sergeant-major has any 



35] ROUTINE 140 

orders to issue, he will represent his battalion and write 
down the orders. 

(;) He will parade the company orderly-sergeants at last 
post parade and collect reports for the orderly-officer, who 
will also be present to receive them from the sergeant-major. 

(v) Orderly Officers— Captain of the Day.*— {a) He comes on 
duty at reveille, remaining on duty till reveille next 
morning. 

(b) He will not leave camp, and will wear uniform and a 
sword-belt, if swords are carried by the unit to which he 
belongs, during his tour of duty. 

(c) He will visit the men while at breakfasts and dinners 
and ascertain that the food is well cooked and sufficient, 
and the men are tidily and correctly dressed. 

(d) He will accompany the commanding officer on his 
morning inspection of the lines. 

(e) He will turn out the guard, and visit the sentries once 
Dy day and once by night. He will ascertain that the rntani 
is present, and that the sentries are properly posted and 
know their duties. 

(J) He will visit any of the men of his battalion who 
may be in hospital. 

(g) In case of fire or other alarm he will take command of 
the guards and picket. 

(h) He will visit the grocery institute, or dry canteen, and 
the club tent of the camp. 

(i) He will receive the report of the subaltern of the day on 
duty with him, and forward it together with his own to the 
adjutant before 9 a,m. on the day when he comes off duty 

(J) Subaltern oj the Day.% — He is the assistant to *he 
captain of the day. 

• In small corps this duty may be performed by any cadet officer^ 

% In small cadet corps this duty may be performed by sergeants, 
platoon or section commanders. 



i 5 o ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS 135 

(k) He comes on and goes off duty with the captain of the 
day, v . 

(/) He will report himself to the captain of the day on 
the first available opportunity after reveille. 

(m) He will attend the captain of the day in all his inspec- 
tions of the lines and meals. 

(n) He will turn out the guard and visit the sentries once 
by day when they are found by day, and once by night at 
the hours he is ordered to do so by the captain of the 
day. 

(o) He will attend the mounting of brigade duties when 
his battalion finds any. 

[p) He will attend all issues of rations and inspect the 
meat, etc. If he considers anything is unfit for issue, he 
will draw the attention of the quartermaster to the 
fact. 

(r) He will attend last post and receive reports from the 
sergeant-major. 

(s) He will visit the kitchens, ablution-places, refuse- 
pits, etc., once during the day, and ascertain that all orders 
with reference to such places are obeyed. 

(/) He will hand his report of the performance of his duties 
as soon after coming otf duty as possible to the captain of 
the week. 

(w) Turning out the Guard. — The captain or subaltern of 
the day will not turn out the guard at the following times : 

Within one hour of mounting or dismounting. 

Within one hour of the guard being turned out by either 
the captain or the subaltern. 

During the hour following the sounding of the dinners 
bugle. 

Within one hour of retreat, last post, or reveille. 

vyhen he turns out the guard, the captain or subaltern 
of the day will carefully inspect the guard and the guard- 
tent, as well as visiting the sentries. 



35] ROUTINE 15 1 

(vi) Battalion Orderly-Sergeant — (a) He conies on duty at 
reveille, and goes off duty at reveille on 'the following 
day. 

(b) He parades the company orderly-sergeants half an 
hour after reveille, ascertains if companies are present, and 
issues orders concerning the putting out of kits to air. 

(c) He attends all commanding officer's or adjutant's 
parades, but falls out as soon as the parade marches off. 

(d) He parades and marches the morning and evening 
sick to the hospital tent. 

(e) He attends the captain and subaltern of the day at 
all inspections of lines and meals. 

(J) He parades the company orderly-corporals and tent 
orderlies for drawing of rations and issue of meals. 

(g) He is present at sergeant-major's detail hour. 

(h) He closes the grocery institute or dry canteen, the 
club tent, and the sergeants' mess at the hour ordered. 

(i) He attends guard mounting and last post parades. 

(/) He goes round the battalion camp to see that all lights 
are put out, and that there is silence immediately Lights 
out is sounded, and reports to the orderly-officer 
accordingly. 

(k) He reports to the sergeant-major on- completion of 
duties. 

(vii) Battalion Orderly - Corporal. — He attends the battalion 
orderly-sergeant, and assists him in the performance of all 
the above duties. 

10. Duties of Company Officers — (i) Company Duties. — The 
duties of the officer commanding a company or a platoon; of 
the section commanders; tent commanders, etc., are similar 
to those of the battalion commander, the camp command- 
ant, or the brigadier. Each one of the above commander 
is responsible to the one above him for the efficiency and 
training of his men, the cleanliness of the tents and lines 
of his command, and for the proper performance of their 



i 5 2 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS f35 

respective duties by those under them. It is advisable 
perhaps to give the duties to be carried out by the fol- 
lowing : 

(ii) Company Orderly-8ergwutt* — (a) His daily duties, will 
commence at reveille, and .last for twenty-four hours. 

(b) Immediately after reveille he will go round his 
company lines and see that all the men rise, find out if 
there are any absentees, and take the names of any men 
who wish to report sick. 

(c) The company orderly-sergeant will report to the 
battalion orderly-sergeant half an hour after reveille the 
state of bis company, and whether there are any men 
who wish to report sick. 

(d) If orders are so issued, he will see that all blankets 
and kits are put outside the tents, and the walls of the 
tents rolled up. 

(e) He will be on parade five minutes before the hour 
ordered for parade, and report to the sergeant-major if the 
parade is a commanding officer's or adjutant's, and to the 
company staff-sergeant or senior sergeant if it is a company 
parade. 

(J) He must be thoroughly acquainted with the state 
of his company, and know what duty every man is on ; or if 
absent, he must take steps to ascertain the reason for his 
absence. 

(g) He will parade tent orderlies, and march them to the 
kitchens a quarter of an hour before each meal, and to the 
ration-stand at the hour fixed for drawing rations. 

(A) He wjll parade and march the sick to the hospital 
tents at the hours fixed. 

(i) He will report his company present or otherwise to 
the orderly-officer when he visits breakfasts or dinners. 

* It will depend on the length of time for which the company is in 
camp whether this is a weekly or daily duty. It will be best, perhaps, 
to assume here that the duty will be carried out by a fresh N.C.O. each 
day. 



35 ROUTINE 153 

(7) t He will attend the sergeant-major's " detail," copy 
orders, and receive instructions as to the number of men 
his company is to find for guards, fatigues, etc., on the 
following day j 

(k) He will detail the N.C.O. and men for these duties. 
If there is. a company notice-board, it will be sufficient if he 
puts the list of names for the different duties on the board. 
If there is no board, he must personally warn all concerned. 

(/) He will see that all orders are read in the company at 
some fixed hour. 

(m) He will call the roll of his company between first and 
last posts, and report present or otherwise to the sergeant- 
major at last post staff parade. 

(«) He will see that all lights are put out in the tents of 
his company except where extra time is allowed, and reports 
to the battalion orderly as soon after lights out has sounded 
as possible. 

(iii) Company Orderly-Corporal. — The company orderly-corporal 
is the assistant to the company orderly-sergeant in the 
above duties. 

(iv) Company Unas and Tents. — (a) Unit commanders are 
entirely responsible for the cleanliness of the tents and lines 
occupied by the men in their units. 

(b) Men on rising each morning will wash, clean their 
accoutrements, put on their kits in order, and prepare for 
parade. 

{c) Men are not to be permitted to place waste cooked meat, 
vegetables, and oil rags on the ground in the company lines, ot 
on or under the tent boards. 

(d) Jam-jars, butter-dishes, etc., which attract flies to the 
tents, should be placed under cover in ventilated boxes, which 
should be supplied to the men in each unit for that purpose. 

(e) All bedding and uniforms should be exposed to the air 
outside the tents for at least one hour daily except in wet 
Weather. 



t54 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [35 

(/) A light is never to be left burning in an unoccupied 
Unt. 

(g) No officer or man riding a horse or cycle, or driving 
any vehicle, is to go faster than the pace of a walk inside 
the camp. 

(v) Non-Commlssioned Officers In Charge of Tents. — (a) N.C.O.'s 
in charge of teiits will see that men get up at reveille, 
and clean and tidy the tent. They will see that tents are 
clean and tidy by the time for the inspection of the lines, 
that they are again tidied up after each meal, and debris 
carried to the refuse and rubbish tubs. 

(b) That there is silence after lights out. 

(c) That tent-ropes are slackened each night, and in damp 
or wet weather. 

(d) They will be held responsible for the discipline of the 
tent. 

(e) They will keep a roll of the men belonging to 
the tent, and will enter opposite each man's name the 
number of his rifle and equipment, and they will also 
keep a roster of the orderly-men. They will also detail 
a next for duty, who will assist the orderly -man when 
required. 

(J) No man may change or be changed from the mess or 
tent to which he is told off without the sanction of the unit 
commander. 

(g) No N.C.O. or man is to change his turn, or any 
p>ai£ of his turn, without permission from his unit com- 
mander. 

(h) No man is to leave his tent between last post and 
reveille without permission of the N.C.O. in charge, who 
will only grant permission for a necessary purpose; a man 
thus granted permission will report himself to the N.C.O. on 
his return. If he is away an unnecessarily long time, he 
will be reported by the tent commander to the unit. 
commander. 



36] ROUTINE ijf 

(vi) Tenf Orderlies. — Tent orderlies will perform the fol- 
lowing duties : 

(a) Roll up tent-walls each morning, except in rainy 
weather. 

{b) See that the tent-ropes are slackened at night, and in 
damp and rainy weather. 

(c) See that the interior of the tent is kept. clean and in 
good order. 

{d) See that all tent-doors are closed during rainy 
weather. 

(e) See that refuse and rubbish are removed from the 
company lines and placed in the proper receptacles. 

(/) Draw the groceries from the grocery store. Sacks or 
other suitable receptacles for the exclusive purpose of 
carrying bread will be provided by each company or 
contingent. 

{g) See that all food is kept under cover to avoid 
attracting flies'. 

(A) Carry up breakfast, dinner, and tea from the kitchen* 
to- the company lines. 

(**) Wash up plates, etc., after each meal, and see that 
the tins used for this purpose are left clean. 

(/) Return camp kettles, etc., to the kitchens immediately 
after each meal. 

{k) Take all broken tent-pegs to the battalion quarter* 
master, who will exchange them for new ones. 

(/) Keep the company parade-ground clear of all rubbish 
and litter. 



Section 36. — Routine in Cadet Billets. 

1. The details of routine in cadet billets must be left to 
the discretion of officers commanding the units brought 
together for training, who will adapt them to suit varying 
conditions. The table on p. 139 will, however, serve as a 



156 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [36 

rough guide to the principles which should govern the daily 
routine of cadets in billets. The following points are also 
mentioned for the guidance of commanding officers : 

(i) Guards and Sentries. — Guards should under ordinary cir- 
cumstances be unnecessary when cadets are accommodated 
in billets. This should also be the case with sentries, 
especially when cadets are billeted in premises on private 
ground, as, for instance, in farm buildings. Sentries, how- 
ever, should be posted when it is necessary or advisable to 
take precautions to prevent damage to property, such as 
orchards or hay-stacks. 

(ii) Pickets. — When cadets are billeted in towns or villages, 
a small picket may be necessary to patrol the streets for 
some time after lock-up to see that no cadets are out. 

(iii) Alarm Post. — A central alarm post, or place of assembly, 
should be arranged for each platoon, or company, in case 
of emergency. 

(iv) Fire. — In case of a fire in or near billets, platoons or 
companies should fall in at once at their place of assembly, 
and the officer in command should offer the services of the 
cadets to assist the police in keeping back a crowd, passing 
buckets, or giving help in other ways. 

(v) Orders. — When cadets are billeted in separate houses, 
one cadet from each house should meet the orderly N.C.O. 
or officer at a certain time each evening at some special 
place to receive orders for the morning, which should be in 
writing, or taken down in writing for transmission to those 
concerned. 

(vi) Lock-up. — Cadets should be confined to their houses 
after a certain hour, and the company orderly-sergeant 
should go round and ascertain if they are all present by 
roll-call. 

(vii) Lights Out. — When cadets are billeted together in 
the same building in considerable numbers, the order 
Lights out should be sounded at a given time. In 



37j CADET CANTEENS ; 57 

other cases the N.C.O. or senior cadet in command of a 
group of cadets should be made responsible for seeing that 
lights are out at a certain hour without the order being 
sounded. 

(viii) Rounds. — The platoon or company commander 
should visit the billets of his command every day, and see 
that the cadets keep their rooms clean. He should occasion- 
ally enquire from the owners of billets if the conduct of the 
cadets is satisfactory. 

(Lx) Meals. — It may be possible to arrange for meals to be 
provided for cadets in billets. If this is not possible, meals 
may be cooked and served in some central position where 
kitchens and accommodation for messing must be provided. 

(x) Conduct — The necessity for good conduct, politeness, 
consideration and respect for property, on the part of cadets 
towards all with whom they come in contact, and more 
especially towards those in whose premises they are billeted, 
has already been emphasized. Cadet officers and N.C.O.'s 
must exercise vigilance oyer the conduct of cadets, and 
serious misbehaviour should be punished by instant dis. 
missal from the camp. 

Section 37. — Grocery Store, Canteen, and Refresh- 
ment Tent. 

1. Groceries. — Groceries are only issued as a free ration in 
war. In peace they are purchased by each unit from a 
messing allowance, supplemented in some cases by canteen 
grants — namely, the profits of the regimental canteen run 
by the unit contractor or regimental management. 

2. Cadet Groeery Store. — The supply of groceries ^or 
cadet units in camp will be arranged for by the organizing 
Committee. If groceries are to be issued daily to cadets 
from a camp grocery store or tent, unit commanders early 
in the morning after arrival in camp will render a return 



i 5 8 ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [37 

to the quartermaster showing the number in mess. Ser- 
vants and grooms will be shown separately. From this 
return issues will be made daily. Unit commanders will 
notify to the quartermaster at once any change in 
numbers, 

3. Issue of Groceries. — (i) Arrangements for the issue of 
groceries will be made by the quartermaster. Should the 
scale of issues be insufficient, a further issue will be made. 
A record of such extras will be kept, and a charge made 
against the unit to whom they are issued, which will be 
additional to the general account. Such extra charges 
will be defrayed by individual units. 

(ii) The following procedure will be observed when 
issues are made at the grocery store : Unit commanders 
will arrange for ration parties, consisting of sufficient cadets 
to carry the stores, to be marched to the grocery store for 
this purpose. If the party is too large, the extra cadets 
are in the way, and if the party is too small, delay in 
making the issue is caused. Each party should bring a 
clean sack for bread, which will be used exclusively for 
this purpose; and also plates for carrying butter, and tins 
for jam, sugar, etc. 

(iii) On arrival at the grocery store, the ration party will 
halt and remain in the ranks. When orders are given for 
the issue to proceed, each party will enter the store quietly, 
take away the issues, and leave the store-tent by the proper 
exit. In doing this, cadets will remain silent. The in- 
structor of each unit should attend the first three issues 
and assist in organizing these arrangements. 

4. Cadet Canteens. — (i) If the rations supplied to cadets 
are sufficiently ample and varied, it should not be neces- 
sary to supplement them with purchases of food and drink. 
In any case this habit should be discountenanced among 
cadets, firstly on the ground of health, and secondly on 
the ground of unnecessary expense. The question of a 



38] > MESSING t 5 g 

canteen in camp is, however, one for the decision of com- 
manding officers, and if it is desired to provide one, the 
necessary arrangements should be carried out by the 
organizing committee. 

(ii) The committee should make strict rules regarding 
the articles to be sold at the canteen, and the prices at 
which they are to be sold. No tobacco or alcoholic liquor 
in any form should be supplied to cadets, and articles pro- 
curable should be limited to fruit in season, biscuits, whole- 
some confectionery, aerated waters, and, if possible, tea 
and coffee. 

(iii) Profits should be devoted to defraying the expenses 
of camp or be given to the prize* fund. A cadet officer or 
N.C.O. should be on duty at the canteen during the hours 
at which it is open.. These may be limited to half an hour 
or an hour after the midday meal and after tea. 

5. Refreshment Tent. — A refreshment tent may, at the 
discretion of commanding officers, be pitched in a con- 
venient place, and be open to cadets for refreshment on 
return to camp after field exercises, after parades on hot 
days, and during the hours devoted to prize competitions, 
athletic sports, concerts, etc. 

Section 38. — Messing. 

1. Arrangements for Messing. — By far the best solution 
of the problem of messing in cadet camps will be for the 
organizing committee to make arrangements with a local 
contractor for an inclusive charge per head to do all catering, 
and to provide tents, furniture and equipment, including 
cutlery and china, for messing for cadet officers and, 
N.C.O.'s as well as for cadets. For the sake of economy, 
all unnecessary equipment should be done away with. 
Thus tables, tablecloths, chairs or benches may be dis- 
pensed with, meals being eaten on the ground. Cutlery 



f6o ORGANIZATION IN CAMPS [38 

may be-dispensed with if the personal equipment of each 
cadet includes a spoon, knife and fork. Cooks and kitchens 
with necessary equipment, will, under such an arrange- 
ment, be provided by the contractor, meals being served 
by cadet mess orderlies, or direct to cadets, as described in 
the following paragraphs. 

2. It will be an advantage if cadet officers and N.C.O.'s 
have the same meals as cadets under the same conditions 
of rigid simplicity, but this' is a question for the commanding 
officer to decide- If cadet officers and N.C.O.'s have separate 
messes, space will be set aside for them by the quarter- 
master in planning the camp, and separate arrangements 
will be' made for the catering for these messes. When 
cadets are quartered in billets, arrangements may be made 
for them to have their meals in the billets, or a contract may 
be made with a local victualler to provide meals and messing 
accommodation. Under this arrangement early morning 
coffee may be prepared by cadets themselves in their 
billets'. 

3. Serving Meals. — (i) A convenient number for a mess 
is twelve. • Meals may be eaten by cadets out of doors or 
in their -tents; but the best arrangement, when possible, 
is for meals to be eaten in a mess-tent or dining-room. 
The officer of the day is responsible for seeing that food is 
properly cooked and punctually served, and he must super- 
vise these duties. Food may be distributed in camp kettles 
f or mess-tins. 

(ii) In the former case meals are issued by the cooks at 
the camp kitchen. Representatives or mess orderlies of 
units should carry them and serve them to their messes. 
In the latter case cadets parade in line with their mess-tins 
at the kitchen, and the cook serves out his round to each 
cadet. Food may also be brought by the cooks and 
orderlies to the mess-tent or dining-room and served out 
there to mess orderlies or to each cadet direct. 



38] MESSING 161 

4. Absentees. — The officer of the day will make out a 
list of absentees at meals and arrange for their food to 
be kept hot by the cook who is responsible for the meal 
of each man. A list of absentees may be posted on the 
camp notice-board. 

5. Refuse. — After meals cadets will parade on an 
order with their mess-tins, march to the camp refuse-pit, 
empty the remains of their meals into the pit, march to 
the washing-place and thoroughly wash their mess-tins. 
These duties will be carried out under the supervision of 
an officer. A N.C.O. should be stationed at the washing- 
place to supervise the cleaning of mess-tins.- Alternatively, 
mess orderlies may carry out the duties of emptying and 
washing out mess-tins. 



CHAPTER VII 
RATIONS AND COOKING 

Section 39. — Inspection of Rations. 

1. It is a matter of paramount necessity that the soldier's 
food should be looked after carefully, and this duty should 
be carried out by officers who, besides seeing that food is 
•cooked properly and served punctually, should inspect 
rations, to see that they are delivered according to con- 
tract, and are fresh and wholesome. 

2. Meat Inspection. — (i) Meat, both beef and mutton, is 
judged in conjunction with the terms of the current con- 
tract, a copy of which should be hung up in every meat 
store, as regards its age, sex, quality, sweetness, and dressing. 

(ii) Quality. — (a) Beef. — A carcass should be healthy and 
well-fed, and should externally have a well-rounded, well- 
filled appearance. There should be waves of fat on the 
chest cavity, and plenty of fat on the pelvic cavity and 
kidneys; the lean, when freshly-cut, should be soft and 
silky to the touch, futl of juice, bright cherry-red in colour, 
and well-marbled with fat. The fat itself should be 
moderately abundant, and usually of a pale straw colour. 

The internal organs should be sound and free from 
disease, and there should be no signs of tuberculous growth 
or adhesion in the chest and abdominal cavities. 

(b) Mutton. — A carcass of mutton should be well-fed 
and healthy, and should be "mackerel-backed" — i.e., 
should have alternate red and white bars over the loins. 
The fat should be fairly abundant, firm, and white. 

The flesh should present the same general characteristics 

Z62 



39] INSPECTION OF RATIONS 163 

as that of beef, except that the " marbling " of fat is seldom 
present. 

(iii) Sweetness. — To decide whether meat is sweet or 
tainted, the senses of taste and smell must be employed. 
Fresh meat is slightly, acid to the taste, while stale meat 
is distinctly alkaline. 

If there is any doubt, the meat should- be probed at its 
thickest portion with a clean wooden skewer, well thrust in, 
if possible close to a bone, and the skewer quickly with- 
drawn and smelt. IA beef, the best place to probe a fore 
and hind quarter is at the chuck rib and pelvic bone re- 
spectively; while a carcass of mutton should be cut down 
between the hind-legs, separating the two portions of the 
pelvic bone. 

(iv) Frozen Meat — The meat is cold to the touch, and 
particles of ice may be seen on cutting into it with a saw. 
Its colour is not so bright as that of home-killed meat. 

When still frozen, the carcass has externally a white 
appearance; the fat is also white, distinct from the lean, 
and rather crumbly. There are generally signs of rough 
handling, and the outside is dirty and untidy. 

When thawed, the meat looks sodden, the fat is dis- 
coloured, and the exterior of the carcass sweats considerably. 

In carcasses of frozen mutton the forelegs are invariably 
bent towards the body, and as much of the pizzle as can 
be cut away from the outside is removed. The conditions 
of contract as regards dressing do not apply to frozen meat. 

(v) Tinned Food. — For inspection of tinned food, see Sec. 18. 
para. 28. 

3. Judging Bread. — (i) The bread supplied must be 
sweet, well made, properly baked, and of the description 
or quality known as "best household," made from flour 
clean and free from grit, the produce of good sound, sweet 
and dry wheat.' It must be in all respects as good in quality 
as the best plain or fine bread— as distinguished from fancy 



i6 4 RATIONS AND COOKING 140 

bread — usually sold by the trade as " best household bread," 
with which it must frequently be compared. The bread 
must be delivered not earlier than twenty-four hours, nor 
later than forty-eight hours, after baking, and the loaves 
must weigh 2 pounds at the time of issue. 

(ii) The main characteristics of a good loaf, fulfilling the 
conditions enumerated above, are as follows: The crust 
should be a rich yellowish-brown, well-baked, but not 
burnt, as thin as possible, and distributed all round the 
loaf. The crumb should be cream-white in colour, light, 
flaky, elastic, and full of small, evenly distributed cavities. 
In tasting a loaf, the crumb should always be' eaten. Several 
loaves should be selected from different parts of a consign- 
ment of bread, and each weighed singly. 

4: Judging Vegetables.— Potatoes are difficult to judge 
from outward appearance. If a part of the potato is 
greenish in colour, it indicates that it has been insuffi- 
ciently earthed, and will go soft and dark in cooking. 
Carrots and parsnips should be firm, and when cut full of 
natural moisture; the longer they are out of the ground, 
the drier they become. If delivered with the tops on, the 
condition of the tops will prove a fair index to their fresh- 
ness. Turnips, when cut through, should present a uniform 
whiteness; if the centre has shrunk they will cook " pithy." 
Pale brown coloured turnips should be rejected for boiling, 
as they are invariably strong and "woody," and are only 
suitable for flavouring. The only test as to the freshness of 
green vegetables is their condition, and this is summed up 
in practically the one word, crisp. 

Section 40. — Cadet Rations and Diet. 

1. The following notes are meant as a guide to cadet 
officers regarding the management of rations and the im- 
portant question of diet. The estimates given as to the 



40] NOTES ON RATIONS 165 

cost of diet will also help them to check the charges of 
contractors, and to make good and economical arrange- 
ments for messing. 

2. Daily Rations. — It is considered that the daily ration 
for each cadet should consist of £ pound of meat, including 
a proportion of bone, and 1 pound of bread. When con- 
tracts are made for, the supply of bread and meat, a saving 
will be effected if meat is purchased by the whole carcass, 
should the number of cadets in camp be large enough to 
make this procedure desirable. 

3. Management of Rations. — (i) Meat Ration. — The meat 
ration requires careful management to prevent waste. 
The cutting up of the ration meat should be carried 
out carefully, the joints and pieces suitable for roasting 
being first selected. The remainder of the meat after the 
removal of bone should be used for stews and pies, etc., 
and the bones placed in the stock-pot. It is not necessary 
that each cadet should consume the whole of his meat ration 
at the midday meal. The amount saved will be sufficient to 
enable steaks or rissoles to be issued for breakfast on at 
least two days in the week. 

(ii) Bread Ration. — Equal care is necessary in the manage- 
ment of the bread ration. It will be found advisable to 
slice the bread and allow each cadet as much as he requires 
at each meal. In this way it is very probable that a con- 
siderable Saving will be effected, which can be used up in 
the preparation of puddings and other dishes. 

(iii) Groceries and Vegetables. — In addition to the bread and 
meat, it will be necessary to purchase such articles 
as tea, milk, sugar, jam, fish, etc., required for breakfast 
and 'tea, as well as vegetables, flour, etc., for dinner, in 
addition to the meat. The daily cost of these per cadet 
will, it is estimated, amount to about 6d., and thus the total 
daily cost of food per cadet may be regarded as a permanent 
charge of about is. during the period he is in camp. 



i66 RATIONS AND COOKING [4d 

(iv) Oven Accommodation. — It will be neither necessary nor 
desirable to erect enough ovens to cook dinners for the 
whole number of cadets in camp. If sufficient oven ac- 
commodation is provided to meet the requirements of half 
the cadets, the remainder can be given dishes prepared 
in camp-kettles, and no disadvantage will accrue from 
this method, since only about half the meat on a carcass — 
namely, the prime joints — is suitable for roasting. 

(v) Messing Arrangements. — It is therefore advisable, as far 
as messing arrangements are concerned, to divide the total 
number of cadets into two equal halves — the right half 
and the left half. It should then be arranged that the right 
half receive a bake every other day, while stews or meat' 
puddings are served out to the left half on the days the 
right half have bakes. By this means not only will the 
utensils and appliances be utilized economically, but the 
problem of the fair distribution of the prime and coarser 
joints will be solved. , 

4. Diet. — The diet of cadets in camp should consist of 
three meals : 

Breakfast, consisting of tea, coffee, or cocoa, bread, butter, 
with fish, sausage, eggs or bacon, etc. 

Dinnepr consisting of meat, potatoes, and pudding, with 
the addition occasionally of soup or a green vegetable. 

Tea, consisting of tea or cocoa, bread, butter, and jam, 
cheese or cake, etc. 

In addition to the above, an early morning issue of tea 
or coflee, with biscuits, should be made when necessary. 
A specimen diet sheet for one week is shown on pp. 167, 168. 

5. Diet-Sheets. — (i) When compiling a diet sheet, the 
following points should be observed : 

(a) The diet must be good and varied. No dish is to be 
served more than twice during the week. 

(b) No two dishes containing the. same ingredients should 
be served at one meal— for example, meat pudding, with a 



EXAMPLE OF DIET-SHEET. 
Right Half. 



it? 





Early 
Morning. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Sunday 




Tea. 
Bread-and- 

•butter. 
Marmalade. 


Baked meat. 
Potatoes. 
Cabbage. 
Tapioca pud- 
ding. 


Tea-. 
Bread-an d 

butter. 
Cake. 


Monday 


Coffee and 
biscuits. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Rissoles. 


Soup. 
Sea -pie. 
Stewed prunes. 
Rice. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Jam. 


Tuesday 


Cocoa and 
cake.. 


Coffee. 
Bread-and- 
butter. 
Fried fish. 


Roast mutton 
and baked 
potatoes. 

Irish stew. 

Apple tart. 


Tea. 

Bre ad -and • 

butter. 
Salad. 


Wednesday 


Coffee and 
biscuits. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 

Liver and 
onions. 


Soup. 

Tomato stew. 
Boiled pota- 
toes. 
Date pudding. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Cake. 


Thursday 


Cocoa and 
cake. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 

Bacon and 
tomatoes. 


Roast beef. 

Boiled pota- 
toes. 

Stewed figs 
and rice. 


Tea. 

Bread -and- 

butter. 
Jam. 


Friday 


Tea and 

biscuits. 


Coffee. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 

Stewed had- 
dock. 


Soup. 

Curry-stew. 
Potatoes. 
Bread-and-but- 
ter pudding. 


Tea. 

Bread -and- 

butter. 
Marmalade. 


Saturday 


Cocoa and 
cake. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 

Bacon and 
tomatoes. 


Roast beef. 
Boiled pota- 
toes. 
Plum pudding. 


Tea. 

B read -and* 

butter. 
Bloater paste . 



EXAMPLE OF DIET- SHEET. 
Left Half. 





Early 
Morning. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Tea. 


Sunday 




Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Rissoles. 


Soup. 
Sea -pie. 
Stewed prunes 
and rice. 


Tea 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Jam. 


Monday 


Cocoa and 
cake. 


Coffee. 
Bread-and- 
butter. 
Fried fish. 


Roast mutton 
and baked 
potatoes. 

Irish stew. 

Apple tart. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter 
Salad. 


Tuesday 


Coffee and 
biscuits. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 

Liver and 
onions. 


Soup. 

Tomato stew. 
Boiled pota- . 

toes. 
Date pudding. 


Tea. 
Bread -and 

butter. 
Cake. 


Wednesday 


Cocoa and 
cake. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 

Bacon aad 
tomatoes. 


Roast beef. 

Boiled pota- 
toes. 

Stewed figs 
and rice. 


Tea. 
Bread-and 

butter 
Jam. 


Thursday 


Tea and 
biscuits. 


Coffee. 
Bread-and- 
butter. 

Stewed had- 
dock. 


Soup. 

Curry stew. 

Potatoes. 

Bread-and- 
butter pud- 
ding. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Marmalade. 


Friday 


Cocoa and 
cake. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Bac o n and 

tomatoes. 


Roast beef. 
Boiled pota- 
toes. 
Plum pudding. 


Tea. 

Bread -and 

butter. 
Bloater past©. 


Saturday 


Coffee and 
biscuits. 


Tea. 

Bread-and- 
butter. 
Marmalade. 


Meat pudding. 
Potatoes. 


Tea 

Bread -and* 

butter. 
Cake. 



41] COOKING 169 

sweet made of flour or curry and rice, with stewed prunes 
and rice. 

(c) The price of materials and the money available must 
be considered, together with the tastes of the cadets and the 
time when various articles of food are in season. Steps 
should also be taken to discover if the diet provided is 
»iked. 

6. Profits from Refuse. — (i) Due care should be taken by 
those responsible to save bread whenever possible, as well 
as any meat which may not be required for issue at dinner, 
and which consequently would be available for issue at 
breakfast the next day. A useful addition to the messing 
funds may also be secured by the sale of refuse, bones, etc. 
The manner of disposing of the refuse for the best value 
will vary according to local Conditions, but it will always 
be possible to ascertain the best price which can be obtained. 

(ii) The refuse-tub is thus an important feature in the 
economical management of messing. There is also ,no 
better index of the accuracy or otherwise of estimates 
regarding the quantity of food and materials provided, and 
the popularity of the food. If there is a large amount of 
refuse it indicates waste, the reason of which is probably 
that too much food is provided. It may also mean that 
the food is badly cooked or unpopular, and in any case an 
immediate investigation and rectification of the cause is 
advisable. 

Section 41. — Cooking. 

1. Officers commanding are responsible that there are a 
certain number of men in each company who have been 
instructed in the cutting up of meat, making field-kitchens, 
and cooking. The sergeant-cook is specially trained for 
the purpose of instructing men in these duties. To cook 
rapidly and well is an art which can be easily acquired, and 
which every soldier should learn. Full information regarding 



ijo RATIONS AND COOKING [41 

field itchens and cooking is contained in the Manual of 
Military Cooking. In the following paragraphs directions 
are given for cooking in mess-tins and without utensils. 

£ It is especially useful that men and cadets should 
know how to cook various articles of food in their service 
mess-tins, which are so designed that, besides serving as a 
cup or dish and plate to eat from, they can also be used to 
cook certain rations in the same manner as in the camp- 
kettle of the field-kitchen. 

3. Cooking in Mess-Tins. — The capacity of the mess-tin 
is i quart, and it will cook sufficient food for one person ii 
the diet consists of meat and vegetables cooked together, 
as in the case of Irish stew or sea-pie. Variety in diet is 
both essential and desirable, and it can be obtained to some 
extent when cooking in mess-tins by dividing up the rations 
of, say, two men, so that one mess-tin is used for cooking 
their meat, and another mess-tin is used for cooking 
their vegetables. It will be possible in this manner to vary 
the food slightly, provided such dishes as meat puddings, 
plain stews, stewed steak, or curry and rice, are given. 
When this is done, the front-rank men prepare the meat, 
and the rear-rank men prepare the vegetables. 

4. Method of Instruction. — Men may be instructed in 
cooking in mess-tins according to the following directions: 
They must be drawn up in open order, properly equipped as 
for a march. Their water-bottles must be filled with water. 
Their mess^tins must be strapped on them, containing their 
rations, the meat being stripped from the bone and cut into 
portions together with vegetables. Condiments for each 
group of eight men may be served out to, and carried by, 
one cadet. 

5. It should then be supposed that they are to halt on 
arrival at a rendezvous. Arms should be piled in the usual 
way, and the men ordered to unstrap each other's mess- 
tins. This being done, they should be moved either to the 



411 COOKING IN MESS-TINS 17I 

tight or left, a sufficient distance to clear the arms: the 
tanks should remain in open order, made to turn inwards, 
and the men ordered to sit down and commence the 
preparation of their food. 

6. When the dishes are ready for cooking, the mess-tins 
of each group of eight men should be placed in the centre 
of the group. Orderlies should be told off to collect fuel, 
which, whenever possible, should be that obtainable in the 
Vicinity of the kitchens. A small quantity of fuel will 
Suffice for each set of mess-tins, a good draught being the 
Object to be kept in view. The tins should be well greased 
6n the outside before being placed on the fire. If this is 
done, and they are cleaned soon after being used, they will 
Suffer no damage. The tins when they are hot Can be 
Cleaned m a few minutes with turf, soil, or rag. 

•?. Kitchens, or groups of mess-tins, should then be 
formed k$ arranging the tins in the manner shown in 
Fig. 25, with the opening facing the direction of the wind. 
In being placed in position for cooking, the handle of each 
mess-tin must be kept on the outside. It will not be 
necessary to dig trenches. The distance between the 
various kitchens formed in the manner described should not 
be less than 3 feet, which allows an interval of 9 feet 
between companies ; but ii space is limited the cooking may 
be done with 2 feet between the kitchens and 6 feet between 
the companies. 

8. Each man must be made to prepare his own dinner, 
but when the kitchens have been formed and the fires 
lighted, one cadet only in each group of eight should remain 
in charge of each kitchen. He must change the position of 
tins frequently during cooking to ensure an even heat, 
otherwise the contents of the mess-tins nearest the fire will 
<£ook more quickly than the others. The man in charge of 
each kitchen must also frequently inspect the contents of 
the mess-tins to see how the cooking is progressing! and 
should stir them before replacing them on the fire. 



Plan. 




Elevation 




FIRE 
Fig. 25.— Arrangement of Mess-Tins for Cooking. 



413 RECIPES 173 

9. When the food is cooked and the order to serve out 
dinners is given, the men will form up in groups to receive 
their mess-tins from the man in charge of the kitchen. 
When the rations of two cadets are cooked in separate tins, 
the rations will be shared between them immediately the 
mess-tins are served out, and before they commence their 
dinner. 

10. Recipes for Cooking in Mess-Tins.— The following 
recipes are suitable for cooking in mess-tins: 

(i) 8ea-Pie. — With this dish the whole of the ingredients 
for the dinner are cooked in the one mess-tin, each man 
preparing his own food entirely. The meat should be cut 
up into cubes about £ inch square, the onions and vegetables 
as small as possible, the potatoes into cubes about the size 
of walnuts. Season with salt and pepper, mix well together, 
add enough water to just cover, and make the paste in 
the following manner : 

Place about 3 ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, and 1 ounce 
of chopped suet or finely-shredded dripping, into the lid of 
the mess-tin, add a little cold water, and mix up into a stiff 
and rather dry paste. Press the paste out into the lid until 
it is of equal thickness all over. This will form it into the 
shape necessary for covering the meat, etc. Place it on, 
make a hole in the centre of the paste, fit in lid of the tin, 
and cook gently. 

(ii) Irish Stew. — This is another dinner in which all the 
ingredients are prepared by one man in one mess-tin. 
Prepare meat, onions, and potatoes, as for sea-pie. Season 
with salt and pepper, cover with water, and allow to simmer 
gently. 

^ (iii) Plain Stew. — In this case one man prepares two rations 
of meat — his own and that of his rear-rank man. The rear- 
rank man prepares the onions and vegetables, and passes 
it to the front-rank man, who adds them to the meat, 
together with a. little flour, salt, and pepper. The rear- 



174 RATIONS AND COOKING [41 

tank man then prepares the potatoes for himselt and his 
front-rank man, and places them in the mess-tin, with 
Sufficient water and a pinch of salt; Thus, in a kitchen of 
eight mess-tins there would be four mess-tins containing 
meat and four containing potatoes. 

(iv) Meat Pudding. — Prepared as for sea- pie, but omitting 
the vegetables and potatoes, using 4 ounces of flour for paste, 
and cooking two rations of meat in one mess-tin and two 
rations of potatoes in another; 

11. Beverages. — The following beverages will be found 
useful for cadets in camp and on the march : 

(i) Barley- Water. — Two ounces of pearl barley boiled in 
1 quart of water for twenty minutes, and afterwards allowed 
to stand until it becomes cold; it must then be strained 
through a sieve into a jug, and a small piece of lemon-peel 
added. 

(ii) Toast and Water. — Boil 1 quart of water, and pour it on 
a good -sized piece of crumb of bread which has been well 
toasted before a clear fire until it becomes nearly crisp and 
of a dark brown colour. Allow this to steep for half an 
hour; it is then ready. 

(iii) Sugar -Water. — To 1 pint of cold spring water add 
r ounce of lump-sugar and a tablespoonful of orange-flower 
water; mix. This is a very refreshing drink in summer, 
and is besides perfectly harmless. 

(iv) Lemenade. — After removing the ends, cut the lemons 
into slices; place. the slices in a jug, pour on some boiling 
water, sweeten to taste, and allow to cool. If required 
afterwards, pour^sbme into a glass, and stir in a pinch of 
bicarbonate of soda. 

12. Cooking without Utensils. — (i) Light a fire. Take a 
piece of meat or fish, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Wrap 
in paper or clean grass or leaves. Mix some clay fairly stiff, 
and flatten it out. Cover the meat with the clay, being 
careful that it is well covered and that the edges are securely 



41] COOKING WITHOUT UTENSIIS 175 

fastened. Clear a space in the centre of the fire, leaving 
some embers in the ground. Place the clay mould in the 
hollow, cover with the burning fuel, and allow it to cook 
until the clay is hard. The time taken depends on the 
thickness of the meat. As a rule a pigeon, chicken, or 
rabbit, takes about one and a half hours. The fire should 
not be allowed to become too hot. With birds the entrails 
need only be drawn; the feathers can remain during the 
cooking. On breaking the seal of clay the feathers will 
become detached from the meat. Fresh-water fish, such 
as trout, pike, etc., are very good cooked in this manner. 

(ii) An Alternative Method. — Make a fairly large fire, cut 
some thin strips of meat and fat, dust with salt, skewer the 
pieces of fat and meat alternately on a piece of wire or 
wood. When the fire has become fairly clear and free from 
smoke, hold the piece of meat over it and grill until it is 
done. 



APPENDIX 

MENDING, CLEANING, AND WASHING 
CLOTHES. 

1. To Sew on a Button. — (i) Linen Buttons on Underclothing. 

Take a strong needle (No. 5), and thread it with a long thread of 
cotton (No. 30). Draw the cotton through the needle until the 
ends are even, and then make a knot at the end of the thread by 
winding it twice round the finger and slipping the needle through 
the loops thus formed. For white and light underclothing use 
white cotton, for dark material use cotton of a shade to match 
the material as nearly as possible. Fasten the thread in with a 
stitch or two at the place where the button is to be. Next bring 
the needle out through the middle of the button and make eight 
stitches, diverging like a star, from the centre (see Fig. 28). 




Fig. 28. — Method of Sawing on a Linen Button. 

This done, bring the needle out between the stuff and the button, 
twist the cotton six of seven times round the button, and then 
push the needle through to the wrong side of the material, and 
fasten off by taking three or four stitches in the same place under 
the centre of the button. 

(ii) Buttons with Holes or Shanks. — Follow the same procedure as 
before, but bring the thread through one hole in the button, and' 
pass it back through the opposite hole, continuing this six or 
seven times before winding the thread round the button to finish 
oft. If there are four holes in the button, pass the thread through 
one hole, then back through the opposite hole ; next bring it to the 
top through a third hole, and then pass it back through the hole, 
opposite to this, continuing this several times before fastening 
off as before. The thread will then form a cross on the button. 
For buttons with shanks, pass the thread through the shank, 
and then through the material ten or twelve times, and then 
fasten off. 

(iii) If the button- hole for which the button is intended be 



DARNING 

made of thick material, it is advisable to make a neck to the 
button in the following manner: Proceed to sew on the button in 
the manner described, first placing a large pin between the button 
and the material. Before fastening off withdraw the pin, and 
wind the thread several times round the slack threads left 
between the material and button. The space thus formed will 
allow for the thickness of the material. 

2. To Darn Socks. — All darns should be made on the wrong 
side of the material, so turn the sock inside out before proceeding 
to mend it. Take a. good-sized darning-needle, and black or 
coloured wool to match the sock. Put the left hand inside the 
sock, holding the sock so that the place to be mended is stretched 
taut across the hand. The longitudinal or warp threads must 
be made first. To do this, run the needle in and out of the 
material from about \ inch above the hole to about \ inch below 
it, drawing the wool straight across the damaged part (Fig. 29) 
Having completed the warp threads, which should stretch a 
little beyond each side of the hole, turn the work round and 
proceed to do the same in the opposite direction to form the 
woof threads, this time passing the needle over and under each 
alternate warp thread (Fig. 30). The darn when completed 
should form a square, and the threads should lie so close together 
that the darn should replace the original web. Figs. 29 and 30 
show the threads well apart for the sake of clearness only. Do 
not draw the wool tightly when running the stitches backwards 
ajid forwards, and be careful to leave a small loop each time a 
turn is made to allow for the shrinking of the wool in washing, 
so that it will not pull the darn together and make a hard lump, 
which would cause a blister on the foot. 

3. To remove Stains from Uniforms. — (i) . First brush the 
stained garment thoroughly before proceeding to remove the 
stain. Then wet a cloth-ball, allowing it to soak for a minute 
or two in water, preferably hot, rub the stain with this until a 
lather is produced, then wipe off all the lather with a cloth 
wrung out in cold water. If a cloth-ball is not available, rub 
the stain with a clean cloth dipped in a strong solution of water 
and ammonia. Stains may be frequently removed with soap and 
warm water, but the soap must be well sponged out, or a v white 
mark will be left on the material. 

(ii) Petrol and benzene will remove nearly all stains, but their 



APPENDIX 



mm^ 




(b fss «=> c=> cs[)g=iOc=i^cs>[|c=J]g=>'{jWOS) 

S3 C3 O -CD C3f|cs[W^nt^^<^1l l -»-1f'^--^ 










2 ■= 



KNOTTING 

use should be strictly forbidden to men and cadets in camp owing 
to their inflammable nature. 

(iii) Grease stains may be removed by laying a piece of 
blotting-paper or brown paper over the stain; and then pressing 
with a hot iron on top of the paper, which will absorb the melted 
grease. 

4. Directions for washing Flannel Shirts, Underclothing, Socks, 
etc. — To wash flannel shirts, underclothing, spcks, etc., make a 
lather with ordinary washing soap in- fairly hot water, dip in the 
garments, and wash thoroughly, taking care to remove all dirt. 
The water must not be too hot, or flannels will shrink and colours 
may fade. Next rinse out the garments in two or three lots of 
clean water until they are free of soap, then wring out quickly, 
and hang to dry, if possible, out of doors in the case of flannel 
garments. White cotton garments may be left to soak in cold 
water for half an hour with advantage before being washed in 
the manner described above, and should also, when possible, be 
dried in the sun. If facilities are available, garments should be 
ironed before being worn. 



USEFUL KNOTS. 



Thumb. 





i. To make a stop on a rope, or to prevent the end from 
unfraying, or to prevent its slipping through a block — the thumb 
knot or the figure-of-eight. 



APPENDIX 



Betf 




Single Shett 
Bend. 




Double Sheet 

Bendy 




Hawser Bend 



Se/z/ng 




To join two ropes together — 
Same size (dry) . . . . , 

Different sizes (dry) 

' ,, ,, (wet ropes) 

or large cables 



Reef. 

Single Sheet Bend. 
Double Sheet Bend 
Hawser Bend 



KNOTTING 



Bowtm* 




8owfln§ on a Bight. 




3 To form a loop or bight on a rope which will not slip— the 
bouline for a loop at the end of a rope, the bowline on a bight for 
a loop in the middle, with a double of the rope. 



un&er KCtck 




2 Half Hitches 



APPENDIX 
Bound Turn and 2 Half Hitches Fishermen's Bend 






4. To secure the ends of ropes to spars or, to other ropes— 
2 Half Hitches, Clove Hitch, Timber Hitch. 'Round Turn, and 
2 Half Hitches. 



LevBrHilch 



Man Harness Hitch. 




5. To fix a spar across a rope— Lever Hitch. 

6, To form a loop on a drag-rope — Man's Harness Hitch. 



a 



KNOTTING 
Draw 2£lCc/1 

I 



cr 




7. To secure a head-rope, boat's painter, etc., to a post ring cr 
rope, so that it can be quickly released — Draw Hitch. 



Stcppe^Hiich 




8. To transfer the strain on one rope to another— Stopper 
Hitch. 



Cat's Paw on Centre of Rope. 

9. To fix a rope with a 
weight on it rapidly to 
a block— Cat's Paw, or 
Blackwail Hitch. 




INDEX 



PART I 

INSPECTION, SENTRY AND GUARD DUTIES 
CHAPTER I 

Section 1 — General Introduction 7 

Fighting Experience Careful Ground Work 

Section 2 — Army Camps 10 

General Principles 

Section 3 — Billets 11 

Training for Billets Careing for Men 

How They Are Chosen Guarding Against Spies 

Diplomacy Needed Intensive Training 

Work to be Done Seasoning the Men 

Cleaning Up Camps, Bivouacs 

Inculcate Pride 

Section 4 — Camp Organization IS 

General Rules Starting the Camps 

Section 5 — Ceremonial 18 

Importance of Ceremonial Marching on the Color 

The Company Formation Battalion Formation 

Sizing a Company March Past All Companies 

Telling Off or Providing a Com- Other Movements on Inspection 

pany Parade 

Position of Officers and N. C. O.'s 

in Line 

Section 6 — Rations and Cooking 24 

What to Cook and How to Cook It 

Section 7— In the Field 25 

Lessons in the Trenches Trench Feet 

Care of the Feet 

CHAPTER II 

Inspection 27 

Section 7 — General Remarks 27 

The Value of Inspection Inspection of Cadets in Camps 

Inspection of Cadet Corps and Bivouacs 

Hints for Inspecting Officers Ceremonial Inspection 



INDEX 

Section 8 — Inspection of Training and Interior Economy 31 

Points for Criticism Special Classes 

Intelligence and Smartness Inspection of Interior Economy 

Military Efficiency 

Section 9 — Inspection of Commanding Officers Connected with 

Units 34 

CHAPTER III 

Sentries and Guard Mounting 36 

Section 10 — Sentries 36 

General Remarks Sentries Saluting 

Number of Posts Relieving and Posting Sentries 

Duties of Sentries Marching Reliefs 

Section 1 1 — Guards 40 

Detailing for Guards Guards Turning Out at Night 

Guard Mounting Visiting Rounds 

Relieving Guards 

Section 12 — Pickets and Camps, and Billets 46 

CHAPTER IV 

Quarters, Billet Camps and Bivouacs 48 

Section 13 — General Information 48 

Tactical Instruction Discipline 

General Arrangements on the Ar- 
rival of Troops 

Section 14 — Billets 51 

General Arrangements General Rules in Billets 

Regimental Billeting Parade Close Billets 

Section 15 — Camps and Bivouacs 55 

Site Camp Organization and Routine 

Arrangements at the End of a Bivouacs 
March 

CHAPTER V 

Sanitation 58 

Section 16 — General Remarks' 58 

Definition of Sanitation Study of Sanitation 

The Need of Sanitation Training of Cadets 



INDEX 

Section 17 — Clothing and Equipment 60 

Clothing Ventilation 

Cleaning of Clothes Striking Tents 

Drying Food in Tents 

Blankets and Bedding Cleaning Water Bottles 

Section 18 — Water, Food and Milk 64 

Daily Allowance of Water Streams 

Sources and Protection of Water Springs 

Water Supply Distribution of Water 

Stand Pipes Receptacles for Storing Water and 

Rain Water Cleaning Receptacles 

Wells Purification of Water 

Surface Water Inspection of Food 

Running Water Tin Foods 

Ponds Contamination of Food 

Tanks Rules for Preventing Contamina- 

Lakea tion 

Rivers Milk 

Section 19 — Disposal of Excreta 73 

General Remarks Long and Deep Trenches 

Latrine Accommodations Short and Shallow Trenches 

Types of Latrines 

Section 20 — Kitchens 81 

Soakage Pits and Grease Traps Cleaning Utensils 

Section 21 — Disposal and Refuse 84 

Receptacles Removing Refuse and Burning 

Place Refuse 

Methods of Disposal 

Section 22 — Ablution Places, Waste Water and Horse Lines 86 

Section 23 — Sanitation and Billets 87 

Ventilation and Avoidance of Earth Closets 

Drafts Disposal of Waste 
Cleanliness and Billets 
Section 24 — Personal Cleanliness and Care of the Feet 91 

CHAPTER VI 

Organization in Camps 94 

Section 25 — General Information 94 

Number in Cadet Camps Equipment in Billets 

Site for Cadet Camps Bounds 



INDEX 

Public and Private Grounds Visitors and Strangers 
Water Supply at Cadet Camp Punishment 

Billets Medical Examination 
Number in Camps — Billets Hospital Tent or Sick Bay- 
Billets in Schools and Farms Infections 
Equipment Diseases 
Personal Equipment Fatigue and Exposure 
Camp Equipment Miscellaneous Hints 

Section 26 — Training and Recreation 105 

Value of Cadet Camps and Billets Table of Subjects 
Regular Attendance and Need of Conferences 

Tact Discipline 

Fatigue Duties Recreation Committee 

Elasticity Prize Fund 

Indoor Instruction Principle of Equal and Common 

Subjects of Instruction Benefit 

Hints to Instructors Revival of Historic Customs 

Section 27 — General Rules for Organizing Camps 117 

Organization Committee Camp Commandant and Adjutant 

Grouping of Units 

Section 28 — Preliminary Duties 119 

Taking Over Stores Direction for Planning Camp 

Camp Quartermaster 

Section 29 — Pitching and Striking Tents 123 

General Remarks Driving in Pegs 

Tent Doors Striking a Tent 

Digging a Trench 

Section 30 — Transport 126 

Hire of Transport Packing and Loading Equipment 

Duties of Transport Officer General Rules 

Cost of Hiring Transport Wagons and Carts and Hand 

Table of Loads for Transport Carts 

Section 31 — Journey to and from Camps 130 

Day of Arrival and Departure Baggage Guard 

Entraining and Detraining 

Section 32 — Arrival in Camp 132 

First Duties After Arrival Marching in States 

Section 33 — Return and Equipment 134 

Procedure Tents 

General Equipment 



INDEX 

Section 34 — General Arrangements for Cadet Camps, Billets 135 

Nature of Billets Information Regarding Billets 

Choice of Billets Sanitation 

Allotment of Billets Arrival in Billets 

General Organization 

Section 35 — Routine 138 

Value of Routine Bugle Calls 

Table of Routine Duties of Brigade Officers and 

Notes on Table of Routine Non-Commissioned Officers 

Morning States Duties of Battalion Officers and 

Saluting the Flag Non-Commissioned Officers 

Roll Calls Duties of Company Officers 

Section 36 — Routine and Camp Billets 155 

Section 37 — Grocery, Store, Canteens and Refreshment Tent 157 

Canteen Use of Groceries for Cadets 

Section 38 — Messing 159 

Arrangements for Messing Absentees 

Serving Meals Refuse 

CHAPTER VII 

Section 39 — Rations 162 

Rations and Cooking Judging Bread 

Inspection of Rations Judging Vegetables 

Meat Inspection 

Section 40 — Cadet Rations — on a Diet 164 

Daily Rations Diet Sheets 

Management of Rations Profits from Refuse 

Section 41 — Cooking 169 

Cooking in Mess Tins Beverages 

Method of Instruction Cooking without Utensils 

Recipes for Cooking in Mess Tins 

APPENDIX 

Mending Useful Knots 

Cleaning and Washing Clothes 



HARVEY MILITARY SERIES 



BRITISH ARMY BOOKS 

The greatest books of their kind. Revised to 1915-1916-1917 



Field Entrenchments— Solano $1.00 

The only complete work on this Subject 

Machine Gun Training 

— Solano $1.00 

Camps, Billets and Cooking 

— Solano .$1.00 

Field Gunnery — MacAltster $1.00 

First Aid for the Trenches 

— Hastings .60 

Musketry — Hand Grenades 

—Solano $1.00 

Based on Iyee-Enfield Rifle 
New Model Springfield Rifle 



The American rights and copyrights to the above books owned ex- 
clusively by George U. Harvey Publishing Company, Inc., 
109 Lafayette Street, New York. 
The only authorized agent in the U. S. for The Imperial Army Series 



HARVEY MILITARY SERIES 



TWO GREAT BOOKS 



TANKS, GAS, 
BOMBING, LIQUID FIRE 

By CAPTAIN DION 

Canadian Expeditionary Force 

The first complete work of its kind. Covers these 
subjects thoroughly and simply. The result of actual 
experience in the field. $1.25 

THE CARE OF TROOPS 

For Line Officers 

By MAJOR MACY, M. C. 

The best book ever written on this subject. Meant 
to help the line officers preserve the health of their men 
and co-operate intelligently with the medical officers. 
No technical words or phrases. Simple and easy to 
understand. Up-to-date and highly endorsed and 
authorized by the Surgeon General. $1.00 



Published by 
GEORGE U. HARVEY PUBLISHING COMPANY, Inc. 

109 Lafayette Street, New York 



HARVEY MILITARY SERIES 



The Best Books for Soldiers 



An Officer's Notes — Parker $2.00 

The best book for preparing 
applicants for commissions 

What a Company Officer 

Should Know— Mc Arthur $2.00 

The book that helps the new officer 

Field Quartermaster's Hand- 
book — Lawton-Dempsey . $2.00 

The book that guides and teaches 
the new officer in the Q. M. D. 

Handbook of Transportation 

—Baker $1.00 



Published by 
GEORGE U. HARVEY PUBLISHING COMPANY, Inc. 

109 Lafayette Street, New York 



HARVEY MILITARY SERIES 



The Waldron Books 



Infantry Soldier's Handbook $1.00 

The Soldier's Book of Knowledge 

Company Administration . $1.25 

The best book on Company paperwork 

Tactical Walks $1.50 

Scouting and Patrolling . . .50 

Elements of Trench Warfare .75 



GEORGE U. HARVEY PUBLISHING COMPANY, Inc. 
109 Lafayette Street, New York 



