TX 
357 

05 



UC-NRLF 



B H S7T 237 



Q 



z 



1917 



Utilization of Food 



RECIPES 



PREPARED BY THE 

HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 






Issued by 
AGRICULTURAL DIVISION 

OHIO BRANCH 
COUNCIL OF NATIONAL DEFENSE 



UTILIZATION OF FOOD 



The insistent demand for providing the proper kind of food that 
the housekeeper faces daily is a problem of ever increasing difficulty 
as food prices soar. Because of high prices and food shortages, diets 
are more and more restricted and are likely to be cut down in food 
materials that have risen most in price, regardless of their food value 
or their necessity to the welfare of the individual. This condition 
makes it imperative that she study what the vital needs of the family 
are, together with the range of available food materials that will sup- 
ply these needs. 

She must be prepared to persuade her family to abandon many 
of their decided opinions and preferences regarding particular dishes, 
combinations and substitutions. Manifestly, in such a situation it be- 
comes increasingly necessary that the housewife study how to utilize 
the food materials on the market in order that the family may not feel 
too severely the inevitable deprivations. For example, if meat is 
omitted from a meal a savory and palatable dish should be served in 
its place, which would, in most cases, not only be satisfying, but 
actually be appreciated because of the offered variety. 

It must not be forgotten that the needs of the body include tis- 
sue-building foods, fuel foods and foods for regulating body proc- 
esses. The food compounds as used by the body are called nutrients 
and are classified as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, water, mineral salts 
and vitamines. Food materials rarely contain one nutrient alone, but 
a combination of several, tho one may occur in larger proportion or 
a food may be valued largely because of one nutrient. A good ex- 
ample of this is found in beans, they are especially valued for protein 
tho they contain large amounts of starch. 

Tissue-building foods include proteins, mineral salts and water. 
The ordinary sources of protein are meat, eggs, cheese, milk, cereals 
and legumes. Mineral salts occur most abundantly in milk, fruits, 
and green vegetables. Water is so freely used as a beverage that it 
is not necessary that it be considered in the selection of foods. 

Fuel foods include proteins, fats and carbohydrates. These fur- 
nish the energy for body activity and for body warmth. The unit of 
measure for this energy is called a calorie, just as the measure of length 
is called a foot. The heat yield of a substance is measured in terms 

362 i I 



of calories. For instance, an ounce of high grade anthracite coal will 
yield approximately 226 calories. An ounce of protein or of carbo- 
hydrate will yield approximately 116 calories, while an ounce of fat 
yields approximately 261 calories or two and one-fourth times as much 
as either protein or carbohydrate. These heat values hold true pro- 
vided every particle is burned, but just as coal is not always reduced 
to ashes in the engine, so food may not be entirely utilized. The fuel 
value of any given food material, then, depends on the proteins, fats 
and carbohydrates that it contains, which are digested. In most 
tables giving food composition, the fuel value or number of calories 
which a pound of the food material will yield is also stated. This is 
a sort of index to its food value, tho estimates of body needs cannot 
be based on this alone, since certain food materials high in calorific 
value, such as lard or sugar for example, may yield no tissue-build- 
ing or regulatory nutrients. However, foods high in carbohydrates 
and fat furnish the great bulk of energy for our activities, and must 
be included in liberal amounts in the diet. 

The best known forms of carbohydrate are starches and sugars. 
The framework of plants is made up of woody fiber, or cellulose, 
which belongs to the carbohydrate group, but this substance cannot 
be digested to any appreciable extent by human beings. It is never- 
theless of value in the diet, because it gives bulk to the food and stimu- 
lates the movements of the intestines. Such foods as vegetables, 
fruits, entire wheat flour and cornmeal contain large amounts of 
cellulose. It must be remembered, however, that when cellulose is 
included as part of the carbohydrate, it does not represent real nu- 
tritive value, since no appreciable quantity is digested and absorbed. 

Fat is secured from either animal or vegetable sources. Salad 
oils and nut butter furnish fat for the vegetarian, while in ordinary 
diets the bulk of the fat is furnished by butter or meat, both from 
animal sources. Weight for weight, fat yields over twice as much 
heat as either protein or carbohydrate, and is spoken of as a con- 
centrated food. Fats are far more costly fuel foods than carbohy- 
drates. To a certain extent carbohydrate may replace fat and vice 
versa. Both may be used as fuel and if more is supplied than is needed 
for immediate use, both will normally be stored as body fat. For 
example, it is well known that in fattening cattle, stockmen make use 
of grains' which contain large amounts of starch. In the same way, 
if larger amounts of starchy or sweet foods are eaten than are needed 
for fuel, the reserve will be stored as fat. Therefore, the person who 
is dieting to reduce flesh should avoid starchy and sweet foods as 
well as those high in fat. Fat, as such, is distasteful to many chil- 



dren, making it necessary sometimes to disguise the fat with other 
foods in order to include a sufficient amount. 

The regulatory functions of water, mineral salts and vitamines 
make their inclusion in the diet in sufficient quantity imperative. 

The term mineral salt does not mean merely ordinary table salt, 
but many other substances such as lime, phosphorus and iron salts. 
Table salt is frequently used in too large quantities, unnecessarily 
taxing the excretory organs to get rid of it. Ordinary dietaries are 
often found to be lacking in mineral salts. The bad results of this 
lack are seen more easily in children than in adults. Such disorders 
as infantile scurvy, and rickets are corrected by feeding- the proper 
amount and kinds of food materials, and, if the diet k properly 
selected, need never occur. This is why mothers are told by physicians 
to feed fruit juices to small infants, especially if they are being arti- 
ficially fed. If sufficient lime salts are not given growing children, the 
bone development suffers, and for this reason liberal supplies of milk 
are advised. All diets should include a liberal supply of iron-rich 
foods, such as fresh fruits and vegetables. If meat and eggs, which 
are high in iron, are not eaten, special care must be taken to supply 
the necessary iron from other foods. The best sources of mineral 
salts are fresh fruits, vegetables, milk, eggs and cereal grains from 
which the outside coats have not been renfoved. 

The group of food constituents known as vitamines occur in 
very minute quantities, but they are essential to growth and complete 
nutrition. It has been found in experimenting with animals that diets 
otherwise sufficient will fail to maintain life and promote growth 
unless vitamines are included. Lack of these in the diets result in 
certain nutritional diseases such as scurvy, rickets and probably pel- 
lagra. 

The food materials relatively rich in vitamines are egg yolk, raw 
milk, fresh meats, fresh vegetables and fruits, and unbolted cereals. 

It is known that certain foods yield acids in digestion and this 
acidity must be corrected by the use of a sufficient amount of those 
foods which yield alkaline salts or bases. The natural reaction of 
the blood is alkaline and, in order to maintain its alkalinity, these salts 
must be furnished in abundance in the food. It is necessary that 
foods yielding acid in digestion be balanced by foods yielding alkaline 
salts. In a restricted diet there is some danger that this important 
fact in the selection of food may be overlooked. It must be borne 
in mind that acid-producing foods are not distinguished by sour 
tastes, since all fruits including lemons, are base producers. In gen- 
eral, meats, eggs and cereals are acid producers, and fruits, vegetables 
and milk are base producers. 



MEASUREMENTS 

All measurements are level. To measure a level teaspoon, fill the 
spoon rounding full and level it off with the edge of a knife. To 
measure Y teaspoon, cut I teaspoon in two lengthwise; to measure 
Y\ teaspoon, cut Y* teaspoon in two crosswise. Flour is sifted once 
before measuring. The following measures are only approximate : 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon. 

16 tablespoons = i cup (dry material). 
12 tablespoons = i cup (liquid). 

i cup = Yz pint. 
16 ounces = I pound. 

2 cups butter — i pound. 

2 cups sugar = i pound. 

2 cups chopped meat = i pound. 

4 cups white flour — I pound. 

2 tablespoons butter = i ounce. 
2 tablespoons sugar = I ounce. 
4 tablespoons flour = i ounce. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

T. — tablespoon qt. — quart 

t. — teaspoon gal. — gallon 

c. — cup oz. — ounce 

pt. — pint lb. — pound 



RECIPES 

MILK 
SWEET MILK 
Skim milk mjay be used in all these dishes. 
Milk soups or cream soups are prepared by adding to thin white 
sauce an equal amount of vegetable pulp. 

Cereals cooked with milk have a somewhat different flavor and 
a higher nutritive value than if cooked in water. Part water is used 
for the first ten minutes of boiling and milk is added as needed dur- 
ing the remainder of the cooking. 

Potato Chowder. — 
6 medium sized potatoes, cut i T. fat 

in small cubes. I pt. milk 

34 lb. salt pork, diced I pt. water 

i T. onion, chopped i t. salt 

i T. flour 

Cook the pork and onions together until a delicate brown. Add 
this mixture and the water to the potatoes. Cook until potatoes are 
tender but not mashed. Make a white sauce of the fat, flour and milk 
and add it to the potatoes. Serve hot. 

Corn Chowder. — Add i can or i pint of fresh corn to potato 
chowder in which the amount of potato is reduced. 

Fish Chowder. — See "Fish." 

Chocolate. — 
4 c. milk i T. cornstarch 

4 T. sugar 2 c. water (boiling) 

34 t. salt i t. vanilla 

2 sq. or 4 T. chocolate 

(unsweetened) 

Scald the milk in a kettle with an asbestos mat under it and over 
a slow fire. In another kettle, cut the chocolate up with a paring 
knife ; measure sugar, cornstarch and salt in this kettle ; mix, and, 
stirring constantly, gradually add boiling water. Place kettle on stove 
and boil 5 or 6 minutes, continuing to stir. Stir into scalded milk. 
Add vanilla and beat with Dover egg-beater to prevent scum form' 
jng. The cornstarch may be omitted. 

5 



Milk Toast. — To heated milk add butter, salt and pepper. Pour 
over dry toast. If desired, it may be served as cream toast by pour- 
ing thin white sauce (2 T. fat and y 2 T. flour to 1 c. milk) over the 
toast. 

SOUR MILK 

Sour milk may be used as the liquid in the making of batters, 
griddle cakes, muffins, cakes, etc. The proportion of soda to each cup 
of sour milk should not exceed ^2 teaspoon. 

Clabber. — Freshly soured milk may be eaten as custard, served 
with or without sugar. It may be beaten vigorously and served as a 
beverage in the place of buttermilk. 

Sour Milk Whey. — Whey may' be used for the liquid in bread 
making, or in batters, in custards and as the basis of a gelatin founda- 
tion for a vegetable salad. 

Cottage Cheese. — Heat sour milk gradually over a slow fire 
until the curd and whey begin to separate. Strain thru a cheese- 
cloth. Season the curd with salt, pepper and perhaps cream or butter. 

Cottage Cheese Salad. — The cheese may be combined with 
chopped nuts, olives, pickle, pimento or celery and shaped into balls 
and served on lettuce with a bit of salad dressing. This makes good 
sandwich filling. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Method of Making. — 

milk 2 T. flour 



1 c. 

2 T. fat 



Salt and pepper 



Melt fat in pan, add flour and mix thoroly. Remove pan from 
fire and gradually add the milk, stirring constantly to avoid formation 
of lumps. After these are thoroly mixed, return pan to fire and boil 
the sauce thoroly. Add salt and pepper. 



Kind of White Sauce 


Ingredients 


Uses 


Milk 


Flour 


Fat 


No. 1. Thin 

No. 2. Thin 

No. 3. Medium 
No. 4. Thick 


1 c. 

1 c. 

1 c. 
1 c. 


i T. 

1 T. 

2 T. 

3 T. 


} T. 

1 T. 

2 T. 

3 T. 


Soups, etc. 

Cream toast and some vege- 
tables. 

Most vegetables. 

Croquettes, creamed oysters, 
and meat. 



The character and uses of white sauce may be varied by the kind 
of liquid that may be substituted for the milk. For example, in white 
sauce No. 2, fruit juice may be used instead of milk and the sauce 
served with desserts. In all of them the water in which vegetables 
or meat have been cooked may be substituted for the milk and the 
sauce used for most purposes. 

Tomato sauce is made by using tomato juice instead of milk. 

Cheese sauce is made by adding to each cup of white sauce, made 
with milk, about four tablespoons of cheese, grated or chopped fine. 

By varying the thickening agent, the sauce may be varied, as in 
brown sauce. If cornstarch is used instead of flour, use two-thirds 
as much. 

Brozvn sauce is made by allowing the melted fat to brown and 
the flour to brown in the fat. Or, the flour may first be browned by 
heating it in a dry pan, stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Browned flour has not the same thickening power as white flour so 
that about twice as much is required. 

Bread sauce is made by using dry bread crumbs instead of the 
flour. Use twice as much as the amount of flour required. 

By varying the kind of fat, the flavor may be changed. For 
meats and vegetables, savory fats, bacon, ham and sausage fats may 
be used and the product is ordinary gravy. Rendered suet or pork- 
fat may be used or the drippings from meat cooked in any way. Oleo 
or butter will give a flavor different from other fats. 

BREAD CRUMBS 

Bread crumbs, as mentioned in the following directions, means 
bread that has been dried in the oven, (but not browned) and put thru 
the food grinder or crushed with a rolling pin. 

Stale bread crumbs are crumbs prepared from stale bread by grat- 
ing the loaf or by rubbing one piece against another. 

Buttered Crumbs. — Melt 1 tablespoon of fat in a pan. Add 4 
or 5 tablespoons bread crumbs and mix thoroly. 

VEGETABLES 

Creamed Vegetables. — Add l / 2 cup of white sauce to each cup 
of cooked vegetables. 

Escalloped Vegetables. — Arrange the cooked vegetable in a bak- 
ing dish in alternate layers with white sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, if desired, and brown in the oven. Cheese, curry, hard cooked 
eggs, peppers, chopped meat and fish may be added if desired, 

3 



8 

Vegetable Soup. — For cream soup add to each cup of thin white 
sauce an equal amount of vegetable pulp or chopped vegetables. 

To make vegetable soup without milk, the water in which vege- 
tables, rice, macaroni, hominy or meat is cooked is used as the basis. 
The vegetables may be cut in small cubes or may be forced thru a 
strainer and the pulp used. 

Croquettes. — Leftover vegetables may be made into croquettes 
by combining with thick white sauce, mashed potato, cooked rice, 
macaroni, hominy, or cornmeal mush. They may be rolled in corn- 
meal, flour, or egg and crumbs, and then fried in deep fat. 

Vegetable Salads. — Diced or shredded vegetables may be added 
to a sour gelatin mixture. They may be served with dressings of 
various sorts. They may be combined with hard cooked eggs, meat, 
nuts, or cottage cheese. 

Carrots and Peas. — Cook i cup of diced carrots in boiling salted 
water. Add to carrots i cup of cooked peas. Prepare a sauce of 3 
tablespoons of fat, 3 tablespoons of flour, 1 cup of meat stock and x /z 
cup of milk ; season with salt and pepper. Heat vegetables and sauce 
thoroly and serve. 

Curried Vegetables. — 
1 c. potato cubes - l /i c. turnip cubes 

1 c. carrot Yz c. canned peas 

Cook potatoes, carrot and turnip until soft, add peas and serve 
with the following sauce : 

Cook 2 tablespoons of fat with 2 slices of onion, remove onion, 
add 2 tablespoons of flour, -)4 teaspoon of salt, J4 teaspoon of pepper, 
Yz teaspoon of curry powder, l /% teaspoon of celery salt, then add 1 
ctip of water or milk. Heat the vegetables in this sauce, sprinkle 
chopped parsley over it and serve. 

Escalloped Cabbage. — 
Cabbage White sauce 

Buttered crumbs 

Cook cabbage until tender in boiling salted water, changing water 
two or three times; do not_ overcook. Arrange in baking dish, alternate 
layers of cabbage and white sauce. Cover with Inittered crumbs and 
brown in oven. 

Escalloped Turnips. — Wash and pare turnips, cut in small cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water. If turnips are old and strong, change 
water during cooking. Arrange in layers with cracker crumbs and 



butter (as you would for escalloped oysters). Moisten thoroly with 
milk, cover with buttered crumbs and bake. 

Tomato Soup. I. — 
2 c. tomatoes 4 c. milk 

2 t. sugar y t. (?) soda 

1 t. salt 4 T. flour 

2 slices onion 4 T. butter 

Scald milk with onion, remove onion, make into white sauce with 
flour and butter. Heat tomatoes, add soda and rub thru a sieve. Stir 
tomato into milk, add seasonings and serve. 

Tomato Soup. II. — 
2 c. tomatoes Bay leaf 

2 t. sugar 24 c stale, bread crumbs 

2 slices onion 4 c. milk 

6 cloves 1 t. salt 

Sprig parsley y t. pepper 



A 



t. soda 4 T. butter 



Scald milk with bread crumbs, onion, parsley, cloves and bay leaf. 
Remove these seasonings and rub thru a sieve. . Heat tomato, add 
soda and rub thru a sieve. To> hot milk add tomatoes and the rest 
of the seasonings. 

Tomato Soup. III. — 
2 c. tomato juice y t. pepper 

2 slices onion 1 t. salt 

Bay leaf 

Mix ingredients together and heat. Strain and serve. . 

Parsnip Fritters. — Mash thoroly cooked parsnips, season with 
butter, salt and pepper ; shape into small flat cakes ; dip in flour or in 
egg and bread crumbs or in a plain batter and brown in hot fat. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. — 
i can tomatoes 2,y 2 T. gelatin 

1 t. salt 1 t. sugar 

Stew and strain tomatoes, add salt and sugar. Soak gelatin in 
cold water and dissolve in hot tomato juice. Pour into molds and 
chill. Serve on lettuce and garnish with mavonnaise dressing:. 



Vegetable Salad. — 
i c. cold-cooked carrot cubes 
i c. cold-cooked peas 
2 or 3 hard boiled eggs (if 

desired) 



10 



i c. cold-cooked potato cubes 
i c. cold-cooked string beans 
Parsley 



ing. 



Combine ingredients and serve with French or mayonnaise dress- 
Garnish with parsley or egg. 



Cream Dressing. — 
Yolks 3 eggs or 2 whole eggs 
2 T. flour 
i T. butter 
i t. mustard 



i T. sugar 
i t. salt 
y 2 c. vinegar 
Paprika 



Mix dry ingredients, then add vinegar and cook until very stiff. 
Place in double boiler and add eggs, as soon as they thicken, remove 
from heat. Add butter and cool. A glass can is the most suitable 
place for keeping this dressing, which will keep indefinitely. Dilute 
with whipped or plain cream, either sweet or sour, just before serv- 
ing. 



French Salad Dressing. 

3 T. oil 
Y & t. pepper 



i T. vinegar or lemon juice 
Y A t. salt 



Mix salt and pepper with oil, add vinegar or lemon juice slowly 
and beat until well blended. 



Mayonnaise Dressing. — 
Yolk i egg 
i T. vinegar 
l /> t. sugar 
Few grains of paprika 



i T. lemon juice 

Y$ c. oil 

y-z t. salt 

y^ t. mustard (if desired) 



Mix dry ingredients in a cup and add vinegar and lemon juice. 
Add this mixture to egg yolk, beat thoroly with Dover egg beater. 
Add oil by teaspoons, beating after each addition until about 6 tea- 
spoons have been added. It may then be added more rapidly. If 
for any reason the mixture separates, add it slowly to another egg, 
just as the oil alone was used in starting the dressing. This dressing 
may be varied by the addition of chopped olives and pickles. 

Greens. — The leaves of many plants may be used as greens, 



II 



cooking them in boiling salted water until tender, with or without 
bacon, a ham bone or fat salt pork. If the leaves have too strong a 
flavor, the water may be turned off after boiling for 5 or 10 minutes 
and fresh water added. The following plants may be used: 



Cultivated 
Spinach 
Swiss chard 
Beet tops 
Turnip tops 
Carrot tops 
Radish tops 
Horseradish 
Rhubarb 
Kale 
Rape 

Tomato Toast. 
1 qt. tomatoes 
Yz t. pepper 



Uncultivated 
Dandelions 
Mustard 
Sour dock 
Purslane 
Pepper cress 



2 t. salt 
2 T. butter 



Force tomatoes thru strainer, add the salt, pepper, butter and 
cook for about 5 minutes. Place pieces of hot, buttered toast on a 
platter and pour the hot tomato over them. A poached egg may be 
put upon each piece of toast. 

Green Tomatoes. — Green tomatoes may be canned or stewed 
like ripe tomatoes and used in similar ways. They may also be pre- 
pared by slicing, dipping in flour or meal and browning in hot fat. 



Green Tomato Mince Meat. 
Yz peck green tomatoes 

chopped 
Yz peck sour apples, pared 

and chopped 
3 lb. brown sugar 
2 lb. raisins 



1 c. vinegar 
4 T. flour 

1 c. suet chopped fine 

2 t. each of cinnamon, all- 
spice and cloves 



As the juice collects from the chopped tomato, drain it off. Mix 
the flour with the sugar. Mix all ingredients and cook about Y* hour. 

Swiss Chard. — The leaves of the chard are prepared as spinach 
or any kind of greens. The large white midrib may be boiled and 
used as celery or asparagus, stewed, creamed or as salad. It may 
be canned for winter use. 



12 

Creamed Radishes. — Pare and cook in boiling water until tender. 
Serve in white sauce. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake potatoes, cut a slice from top of each, 
or cut in two lengthwise, and remove potato from skin. To six 
medium sized potatoes add salt, pepper, 2 tablespoons butter and 3 
tablespoons milk or cream. Beat until the potato is very light. Re- 
fill skins and brown in oven. 

Mashed Potatoes. — 
6 boiled potatoes 1 t. salt 

Milk or cream 3 T. butter 

Cook potatoes in their jackets, peel and mash, add butter and salt. 
Mix thoroly and add milk, beating vigorously. Pile lightly in a hot 
dish and serve. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Wash, pare very thin and cut into slices. 
Put a layer in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and put over it small pieces of butter. Repeat these layers 
until dish is full. Cover with milk and bake until potatoes are soft. 

Potato Puffs. — 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 eggs 

- 3 T. cream or milk 1 T. butter 

Salt and pepper as needed 

Heat potatoes in saucepan, add beaten yolks of eggs, cream and 
seasonings. Beat until well mixed and potatoes heated. Carefully 
add the beaten whites. Pile lightly in a greased baking dish. Bake 
in oven until browned. 

Potato Croquettes. — To each cup of mashed potatoes add ]/% 
teaspoon celery seed, a few grains cayenne, a few drops of onion 
juice and 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. Mix ingredients thoroly. 
Shape into desired forms, roll in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat 
until brown. Meat may be enclosed in center of croquette. One- 
fourth cup of grated cheese may be added to each cup of potato. 

Creamed Potatoes. — Dice cold boiled potatoes. Prepare a white 
sauce of the desired consistency, add salt and pepper. Turn the po- 
tatoes into this, and with as little stirring as possible heat potatoes thru. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Put alternate layers of sliced hard cooked 
eggs and cold boiled potatoes in a greased baking dish. Cover each 
layer with white sauce, put buttered crumbs on top and bake until 
browned. 



13 

Potatoes An Gratin. — Put a layer of diced cold boiled potatoes 
in a baking dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese and diced pimentos. 
Cover with white sauce. Repeat until dish is full. Cover with but- 
tered crumbs, if desired, and bake until well browned. 



FRESH AND DRIED FRUITS 

Dried Apple Cobbler. — 
lYz c. dried apples i t. cinnamon or nutmeg 

Yi c. sugar 

Wash dried apples very carefully, soak 6 hours, or over night. 
Cook slowly in same water until tender. Add sugar and place in bak- 
ing dish. Sprinkle more sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg over top. 
Cover with the crust made as directed below, and bake until brown 
in a moderate oven. Apricots, prunes or peaches may be substituted 
for apples. 

Crust for Cobbler. — 
i c. flour iy 2 T. fat 

1/3 c. milk or water ]/ 2 t. salt 

2 t. baking powder 

Mix dry ingredients with the fat. Add the milk or water. 

Rice and Apricot Pudding. — 

1 c. rice 2 T. fat 

1 t. salt y 2 lb. dried apricots 

$y 2 c. boiling water y 2 c. sugar 

Wash apricots and soak over night in sufficient cold water to 
cover them. Cook in same water in double boiler until soft and add 
sugar. Let them stand some time in the sweetened juice. Put a 
.layer of cooked rice in buttered baking dish, then add layer of apri- 
cots. Repeat until dish is full, having rice on top. Dot with fat. Re- 
serve 1 cup of juice for sauce. Pour remaining juice on pudding until 
it may be seen thru top layer, using a little water if necessary. Bake 
about 15 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with a sauce made of 
apricot juice. 

Rhubarb Pudding. — 
4 c. rhubarb 4 or 5 slices bread, 

1 c. sugar buttered 



14 

Wash the rhubarb and cut into i-inch lengths, but do not peel it. 
Cut the slices of bread into cubes, mix lightly with the rhubarb and 
sugar and bake in a buttered baking dish about 20 minutes. The pan 
should be covered during the first 10 minutes. 

Prune Pie. — 
y 2 lb. prunes 1 T. flour 

1 t. lemon juice 1/3 c. sugar 

Pie crust 

Wash prunes and soak over night in enough water ^to cover. Cook 
until soft in same water. Remove stones and cut in quarters. Add 
lemon juice and sugar to prunes. Boil down the liquor to 1^ table- 
spoons. Line a pie plate with pie paste, fill with prunes. Pour over 
liquor and dredge with flour. Put on upper crust and bake in 
moderate oven. 

Prune Pudding. — 

1 c. cooked prunes % t. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar 1 1/3 c. boiling water 

1 T. lemon juice 1/3 c. cornstarch 

Add sugar, cinnamon and boiling water to cooked prunes. Mix 
cornstarch with enough cold water to pour easily and add to hot 
prune mixture, stirring constantly. Cook directly over fire until thick, 
then place over hot water. Add lemon juice and continue to cook for 
20 minutes. Stiffly beaten whites of one or two eggs may be folded 
in if desired. Serve cold with cream. 

Fruit Whip. — Use any fruit, which may or may not be a left- 
over. Put the fruit thru the strainer. With each egg white, beaten 
stiff, blend j4 cup of the fruit pulp and 2 or more tablespoons of 
sugar. To fruit having little flavor, lemon juice may be added. 
Fruit whip may be served plain, with fruit juice, soft custard or 
cream, or it may be poured into a buttered baking dish set in a pan 
of water and baked slowly until firm. 

Prune Whip. — 
1/3 lb. prunes l / 2 c. sugar 

2 whites of eggs y 2 T. lemon juice 

Clean and soak the prunes. Cook them till tender. Remove 
stones and rub thru a strainer. Add the sugar and cook 5 minutes, 
or until like marmalade. Beat the egg whites stiff and fold in the 



15 

cold prune pulp. Add lemon juice. Pour into buttered baking dish 
set in a pan of water. Bake slowly until firm. Serve with soft 
custard made with the yolks of eggs. 

Fruit Croquettes. — 

4 c. stale bread crumbs 4 T. sugar 

Yz c. cleaned currants or any leftover fruit 
A little nutmeg and vanilla 
3 beaten eggs to moisten the crumbs 

Form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg, then in dried 
crumbs. Fry. Drain on clean manila paper. Serve hot with a sweet 
sauce. 

Rhubarb Conserve. — Wash and cut the stalks of rhubarb into 
i-inch lengths. To each cup of rhubarb add }i cup of sugar, stir 
constantly and cook quickly until of the consistency of jam. Add 
% cup of chopped nut meats to 1 cup of conserve and pour at once 
into hot glasses. To prevent scorching, it may be necessary to start 
the cooking over an asbestos mat. The conserve thickens on cooling 
therefore, it is best to test the consistency by removing a small por- 
tion to a saucer. 

Fruit Whip. — 
l / 2 box gelatin Juice 1 lemon 

Sugar to taste 2 c. fruit juice 

l / 2 c. cold water 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve over hot water. Strain 
into this the fruit juice and add sugar. Set aside until partly jellied. 
Then whip with Dover egg beater until it becomes white and frothy. 



GELATIN 
Fruit Jelly. — 
2^2 T. granulated gelatin y 2 c. fruit juice (lemon, 

Yi cold water orange and lemon, 

2^2 c. hot water cherries, etc.) 

1 c. sugar 

Soak the gelatin in cold water until soft. Make a sirup by boil- 
ing the hot water and sugar, remove from fire and add the soaked 
gelatin. When the mixture is partly cool, add the fruit juice and 
pour into a mold, which has been wet with cold water. Chill until 



i6 

firm and serve with or without cream. To remove from mold, place 
for an instant in hot water, then turn out on dish. 

Apricot Jelly. — 

1/3 lb. dried apricots Juice 1 lemon 

2 c. cold water 1 T. granulated gelatin, 
1 c. sugar soaked in yi c. cold water 

Pick over and wash the apricots. Soak in the cold water several 
hours and then cook in the same water until soft. Rub thru a sieve, 
add the sugar and enough water to make 2 l / 2 cups. Boil 1 minute, 
remove from fire, add the soaked gelatin and when partly cool, the 
lemon juice. Pour into a mold which has been wet with cold water. 
Chill, serve with or without cream. 

Prunes or peaches may be substituted for the apricots. 



LEGUMES 
Split Pea Loaf. — 

4 c. cooked split peas 1 beaten egg 

2 c. bread crumbs 1 t. minced onion 

1 T. minced parsley, celery. Salt and pepper to taste 

or other flavoring as de- 
sired 

Mix all the ingredients together. If too soft to hold its shape, 
add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water or another egg. 
Form into loaf. Brown in oven. 

Boiled Beans and Tomatoes. — 

3 c. cooked navy beans 2 T. drippings 

1 c. canned tomatoes 1 T. minced onion 

1 T. minced parsley or celery Salt and pepper to taste 

if desired 

Add tomatoes to beans and boil x /-2. hour. Cook onions and other 
seasonings in the drippings, add to the beans. 

Bean Polenta. — 

4 c. cooked white beans % t. mustard 
1 J/2 T. molasses Y% t. pepper 

2 t. vinegar 

Drain the water from cold boiled beans, mash them fine, and mix 



17 

with the other ingredients. Form the mixture into cakes and brown 
on both sides in hot greased pan. 

Bean Loaf. — 
2 c cooked beans put thru i stalk celery or y 2 t. 

food chopper celery seed 

2 c. soft bread crumbs 4 T. bacon fat 

J /% c. chopped onion 2 T. flour 

y> c. water 

Melt 2 tablespoons of fat in a frying pan, add the bread crumbs, 
stirring well until mixed with fat, and add to the ground beans. Cook 
onion in remaining 2 tablespoons of fat, and add flour and water and 
boil. Add to mixture and make into a loaf. More bread crumbs may 
be needed. Bake until nicely browned. Thin slices of bacon placed 
over top of loaf while baking are an addition. May be served with 
tomato sauce or bacon gravy. 

Baked Beans. — Soak 4 cups of beans over night in cold water.. 
In the morning add fresh, cold water and cook slowly until the skins 
begin to burst. Pour off water and put beans into jar. Bury in beans 
Y$ pound of fat salt pork. To 1 cup of boiling water add 1 table- 
spoon of salt, 1 tablespoon of molasses, 3 tablespoons of sugar and 
pour over beans. Add enough more boiling water to cover beans and 
add more if needed during cooking. Cover the bean jar and bake 
slowly for from 6 to 8 hours. Mustard may be added if the flavor is 
desired, and less sugar may be used. 

Dried Pea Soup. — 

1 c. dried peas 3 T. fat 

2 qts. cold water 2 T. flour 
y 2 onion ■ ij£ t. salt 

% t. pepper Small piece fat salt pork 

Soak peas several hours or over night, drain, add water, pork 
and onion. Simmer several hours until soft and run thru colander 
or sieve. Bind with butter and flour. Add salt, pepper and milk to 
give desired consistency. 

Jungle Stew. — 

iy 2 c. kidney beans 1 onion 

y 2 c. macaroni or rice 4 T. drippings 

1 c. tomatoes Seasoning to taste 



i8 

Wash and soak beans over night. Cook until tender. Brown 
sliced onions in frying pan with drippings, add to stew with tomatoes, 
seasoning and the macaroni, broken into bits. Cook until macaroni 
is well done. 

Bean Muffins. — 

2 eggs well beaten 1/3 T. fat, melted 

1 c. cold boiled bean pulp 1 t. salt 

1 c. milk 2 c. flour 

2 T. baking powder 

Combine the ingredients in the order in which they are given. 
Bake the muffins in greased muffin pans for 20 or 25 minutes. 

Bean Souffle. — 

2 c. boiled bean pulp 1 t. onion juice 

2 eggs 2 T. chopped parsley 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and add to them the other ingredients. 
Fold in the well beaten whites of eggs. Heap mixture lightly in a 
baking dish. Set baking dish in a pan of water and bake in a slow 
oven for 20 minutes or until it sets. Serve at once. 



MEAT EXTENDERS 

Cottage Pie. — Cover the bottom of a greased baking dish with 
mashed potatoes. Add a thick layer of cold roast beef, chopped or 
cut into small pieces, seasoned with salt and pepper and onion juice, 
and moisten with some of the gravy. Cover with another layer of 
mashed potatoes. Bake until dish is heated thru and potatoes browned 
on top. 

Minced Meat on Toast. — Chop or grind cold meat, heat with 
some of the gravy, season with celery salt or onion juice. Serve on 
toast, or thin slices of hot corn bread. 

Escalloped Meat. — Into a baking dish put alternate layers of 
macaroni or rice and chopped or ground meat. Pour tomato sauce 
or gravy over each layer. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
dish is heated thru and crumbs brown. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat. — Line a buttered mold with cooked 
rice, fill center with chopped cold meat, highly seasoned with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, celery salt, onion juice, and lemon juice, and 
moistened with stock or gravy. Cover meat with rice and then cover 



19 

whole dish and steam from 30 to 45 minutes. Serve on a platter sur- 
rounded with sauce. 

Browned Hash. — Mix together equal parts of chopped meat and 
chopped cold boiled potatoes. Moisten slightly with gravy or stock. 
Season and place in heated frying pan containing a little fat. Press 
compactly into one-half of the pan. Heat slowly until brown. Turn 
on a platter and serve with sauce. 

Baked Croquettes. — 
3 c. chopped meat 1 t. onion juice 

3 c. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 

2 c. thick white sauce — 2 T. Pepper to taste 

fat, 2 T. flour, 1 c. liquid 

Mix cooked meat with bread crumbs, add sauce, onion juice and 
seasonings. Bake in a baking dish. 

Hungarian Goulash. — Slice a peeled onion and cook until brown 
in drippings. These may or may not be removed when brown. Then 
add about 1 l / 2 pounds of lean, uncooked beef, cut into i-inch cubes 
and stir until brown. Put into a baking dish or casserole, sprinkle 
with flour and add about a pint of stock or boiling water, l / 2 teaspoon 
of paprika, and salt to taste. Cover closely and cook slowly. More 
fat may be added to that in the frying pan and potato balls browned 
in it and added to the meat when it is about half done, or the potatoes 
may be placed on top the meat and cooked until tended. More onion 
may be added if desired. The gravy may be thickened, or cream may 
be added before serving, if desired. 

Chicken Pie. — Dress, clean and cut up a chicken. Cover with 
boiling water, then reduce heat and cook slowly until tender. Re- 
move from bones. Reduce stock to about 2 pints. Thicken 4 cups 
of stock with flour and fat blended together. Pour as much of this 
over the chicken as is needed, using the remainder for gravy. Place 
the mixture in baking dish. Drop the batter from spoon on top. Bake 
until the crust is done. 

Crust for Chicken Pie. — 

2^2 c. flour (scant) 2 T. shortening 

2 t. baking powder 1 c. milk (sweet) 

1 egg 1 t. salt 

This makes a thick batter. 



20 

Brown Stew. ■ — Cut lean beef into cubes — neck beef will be 
found quite satisfactory for this. Season each piece, dredge thoroly 
with flour and brown well on all sides in a frying pan, using a little 
suet to prevent sticking and to give satisfactory fat. Add sufficient 
hot water to cover meat and when this has boiled up once, turn into 
a double boiler and cook for 3 hours. If desired, 1 hour before the 
stew is finished, any vegetables liked may be added, cutting these into 
cubes. (Exception — potatoes require less time for cooking). If 
gravy seems thin, pour off and thicken. 

Corned Beef with Vegetables. — 

2 lbs. brisket of corn beef y 2 lb. turnips 
y 2 lb. cabbage 1 lb. carrots 
y 2 lb. rutabaga 1 onion 

Wipe the meat, cover with cold water and bring slowly to the 
boiling point. After boiling 5 minutes, remove the scum and con- 
tinue cooking just below the boiling point for about 3 heurs. When 
the meat is tender, remove it and cook the vegetables in the water. 
Cut these in pieces of uniform size and cook them until tender. If 
small, the carrots may be cut in halves ; if large, in quarters, and 
other vegetables in similar size. Cabbage should be added about 10 
minutes later than the others. Serve the meat on a large platter sur- 
rounded by the vegetables. Almost any other vegetables, beets, peas, 
etc., may be used instead of part of those named. 

Mock Cutlets. — 

3 c. chopped meat 3 c. cold boiled rice 
Salt Pepper 

Meat stock or milk 1 small onion, chopped 

Mix all together. Shape like cutlets, roll in egg and crumbs and 
fry in deep fat. 

Bacon Puffs. — The bacon or salt pork that is boiled with vege- 
tables is allowed to cool and become firm. It is sliced thin, dipped 
in batter and browned in hot fat. 

It may be noted that no meat from young animals, such as veal, 
lamb or young chickens is included in the meat-extender dishes. If 
young animals were all grown to maturity the meat supply ivould be 
greatly increased. 



21 



FISH — CANNED AND LEFTOVER 

Escallop ed Fish. — 

I x /-2. c. cold cooked fish 

Y% c. (scant J /> c.) buttered bread crumbs 

i c. white sauce 

A small slice of onion or a sprig of parsley may be cooked in 
sauce and removed before combining with the fish. Put alternate 
layers of fish and white sauce in buttered baking dish. Cover with 
buttered crumbs and brown in oven. 

Creamed Salmon. — To the amount of salmon to be used add an 
equal amount of white sauce. Serve on toast. 

Baked Salmon and Peas. — 

i can salmon (2 c.) 1 can peas 

Make a sauce of 2 tablespoons of fat, 2 tablespoons of flour and 
2 cups of milk, or milk and water, or milk with the liquid drained 
from the peas. Add peas and salmon to the sauce. Put in a baking 
dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake 20 minutes. 

Salmon Loaf. — 

1 lb. can salmon, shredded 1 c. mashed potatoes or 
fine cooked rice 

2 T. melted fat 1 or 2 c. soft stale bread 

y 2 c. milk crumbs 

Few drops lemon juice Salt ■ 

Cayenne 1 T. minced parsley 

Soak crumbs in the milk. Remove oil, bones and skin from fish. 
To it add the melted fat, seasoning and potatoes or rice. Add the 
soaked crumbs. Put into a well buttered mold. Steam 1 hour. 
Serve with white sauce, egg sauce, or tomato sauce. 

Salmon Sauce. — 

2 T. fat Salt 

2 T. flour - Cayenne 

1 c. (?) milk Strained liquor from salmon 

Make same as white sauce and add strained liquor from salmon. 
Amount of milk varies with amount of salmon liquor added. (Any 
canned fish may be used instead of salmon). 



22 



Toasted Sardines. — Split sardines and remove bone. Place on 
buttered toast and heat thru. Any small canned fish may be used. 

Egg Sauce. — (To use with fish). To each cupful of white sauce 
add two hard cooked eggs, chopped coarsely. 



SALT FISH 

Salt Fish (mackerel or others). — Wash fish in plenty of cold 
water and allow it to soak several hours in cold water. Place in cold 
water and gradually heat, cooking below boiling point until fish is 
tender. Season well with butter, or an egg sauce maybe used. 

Creamed Codfish. — 
yh c. codfish in small pieces i c. white sauce 

i hard cooked egg 

Soak codfish, cook until salt is sufficiently removed and fish is 
tender. To white sauce add fish and egg cut into dice. Parsley makes 
a pleasant addition. 

Codfish Balls. — 
Y\ c. salted cod ]/ 2 c. potatoes 

j4 egg Salt if needed 

Pepper 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until potatoes are soft. Drain and shake over 
the fire until dry, mash with a fork, add the beaten egg and pepper. 
Add more salt if needed and beat until light. Take up by spoonfuls, 
mold slightly and cook in deep fat, or, shape into croquettes, roll in 
egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Codfish zvith Rice and Tomatoes. — Soak i cup of codfish over 
night. Brown in fat, add i cup of cooked rice, one small onion, 
chopped fine, and I cup of cooked tomatoes. Cook until codfish is 
tender. Add seasonings. 

Escallop ed Rice with Codfish. — 

]/ 2 c. uncooked rice % c. finely shredded codfish, 

34c. grated cheese which has been parboiled 

Buttered crumbs 10 minutes 
i c. white sauce 



23 

Cover bottom of buttered baking dish with boiled rice, then add 
codfish and cover with white sauce. Sprinkle top with grated cheese 
and buttered bread crumbs. Bake in moderate oven until crumbs are 
brown. 

Salt Codfish Hash. — 

i^ c. salt codfish 

3 c. chopped potatoes or I c. rice or i c. broken macaroni 

Pick salt cod in small pieces. Cook potatoes (rice or macaroni) 
and fish in boiling water for 30 minutes and drain. Put into a hot 
greased frying pan until well browned on under side. Smoked fish 
may be substituted for codfish if desired. 

Cornmeal Fish Balls. — 
2 c. cold, white cornmeal 1 egg 

mush 1 T. fat 

1 c. shredded codfish 

Pick over the codfish and soak it to remove salt, if necessary. 
Combine the ingredients and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. Drain 
on porous paper. These codfish balls compare very favorably in taste 
with those made with potato and are more easily and quickly pre- 
pared. 

Fish Chowder. — 

iy 2 oz. (a i^-inch cube) fat % lb. (about 16) soda 

salt pork crackers 

1 T. chopped onion 3 c. diced potatoes 

1 qt. milk )/ 2 lb, salt codfish or fresh fish 

If salt fish is used, break in small pieces and soak in warm water 
till soft and some of the salt is removed. Cut pork into small pieces 
and cook till a delicate brown, adding the onions during the last part 
of the cooking. To the pork and onions add the potatoes. Cover 
with water and boil till tender. Add the milk and fish and reheat. 
Add the crackers just before serving. 

CHEESE 
Cheese Custard. — 
i x / 2 c. cottage cheese 2 T. milk 

]/ 2 c. sugar 3 eggs 

1 t. melted fat Lemon or vanilla flavoring 

4* 



24 

Press the cheese thru a colander or mash to a paste ; beat the 
eggs until light ; add them with all the other ingredients to the cheese ; 
mix until smooth. Place in a baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven about 30 minutes. This is so high in nutritive value that it 
should form the main dish for a meal. 

English Monkey. — 
4 c. bread crumbs %. c. cheese 

2 c. milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the bread crumbs and milk. • If the crumbs are not well 
moistened, add water. When hot, add cheese cut in small pieces. Re- 
move from fire and stir until cheese is melted. May be served on 
toast. 

Cheese Fondue. — 

3 T. finely divided cheese 1/3 c. scalded milk 
1/3 c. stale bread crumbs ' 1 t. butter 

1 egg Salt 

Mix all the ingredients but the egg. Add yolk, beaten until lemon 
colored. Fold in the stiffly beaten white. Pour into a buttered bak- 
ing dish and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. If bread crumbs 
are stale, more milk will be required. 

Welsh Rarebit No. t. — 

2 T. flour 1 egg yolk if desired 

1 c. milk Cheese ( ?) 

2 T. butter 

Prepare a white sauce with flour, butter and milk. Add cheese 
(finely divided) to taste, and egg yolk. Remove from fire. 

Welsh Rarebit No. 2. — 

]/ 2 c. milk or cream 2 T. butter 

24 c. cheese (finely divided) 2 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Melt butter, add cheese and thoroly mix. Add milk slowly and 
when hot, the beaten eggs. Cook until thick and creamy. Be care- 
ful not to overcook. (If overcooked the cheese will become stringy 
or the egg may separate). Serve on wafers or toast. 



25 

Cheese Souffle. — 

2 T. butter 3 t. flour 

3 eggs 34 c - grated or finely cut 
Salt and cayenne cheese 

]/ 2 c. scalded milk 

Make white sauce of butter, flour and milk. Then add salt, 
cayenne and cheese. Remove from fire, add well beaten yolks of eggs 
and whites beaten until stiff and dry. Pour into a buttered baking 
dish set in a pan of water and bake in a moderate oven about 20 
minutes. 

French Rarebit. — Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of 
bread that has been sliced, spread with butter, and cut into small 
squares, and cheese, either grated or ground. Moisten this thoroly 
with a mixture made in the following proportions : 1 cup of milk, 
one egg, salt, cayenne pepper and mustard. Bake until thoroly heated 
thru and browned on top. 

Tomato-Cheese Toast. — Sprinkle grated cheese on toast and put 
in oven to melt cheese. Pour over it tomato sauce. 

Cheese Sauce. — Add grated or chopped cheese to white sauce in 
the proportion of about 4 tablespoons of cheese to 1 cup of white 
sauce. 

RICE 
Boiled Rice. — 
1 c. rice i}4 t.-salt 

3 c. boiling water 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the water from 
the faucet to run thru until it is clean. Add rice to boiling water and 
boil for 25 minutes. 

Save the water that is drained off after cooking and use as basis 
for cream soup or for starching clothes. 

Escalloped Rice. — Put a layer of cooked rice in a greased bak- 
ing dish, cover with a layer of grated cheese and white sauce. Add 
other layers of rice, cheese and white sauce until dish is filled. Use 
enough sauce thoroly to moisten rice. Cover with buttered crumbs 
and brown in oven. 

Rice Croquettes No. 1. — 
iy 2 c. cooked rice 3 T. sugar 

Grated nutmeg 

Shape into balls, roll in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 



26 

Rice Croquettees No. 2. — 

1 c. cooked rice ^2 T. fat 

3 T. grated cheese 

Shape into balls, roll in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Rice and Dates. — 

Mix cooked rice and stewed, seeded dates and serve with cream, 
or serve molded rice with dates on top. 

Rice with Tomato Sauce. — Prepare tomato sauce, using propor- 
tion of 2 tablespoons of fat and 2 tablespoons of flour to 1 cup of 
tomato juice. Fill baking dish with layers of rice and sauce. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Spanish Rice. — 

2 T. fat 1 c. uncooked rice 

Fry rice until brown. Add 1 pint water, one small onion, (chopped 
fine), salt and pepper and 1 pint tomatoes. Cook for 30 minutes. 
Peppers are an agreeable addition. 

Rice Pudding No. 1. — 

2 c. milk 3 T. sugar 

% c. seeded raisins, dates or 3 T. rice 

other fruit % t. salt 

Mix ingredients in a baking dish and cook in a very slow oven 
for from 3 to 5 hours. It will be necessary to stir occasionally to 
prevent rice and raisins from settling to bottom of dish. If raisins 
are not used, some flavoring should be added. 

Rice Pudding No. 2. — 
% c. rice 3 T. sugar 

2 c. milk l / 2 egg 

Y A t. salt 

Cook rice in milk until it is very soft. Add other ingredients 
and turn into a baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven until set. 

Rice and Cheese Rarebit. — 

% c. rice 2 T. flour 

24 c. cheese i^t. salt 

i l / 2 c. milk Ya, t. pepper 



27 

Boil rice in plenty of water. When cooked tender, add milk and 
the flour mixed with % cup of water. Allow this to boil, add salt 
and pepper, and when it again reaches boiling point, remove from 
fire and add cheese chopped fine. Stir cheese thru the hot mixture 
until it melts. Serve on toast. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. — 

}i c. boiled rice 2 T. drippings 

2 c. flour 5 t. baking powder 
iJ4c liquid 1 t. salt 

3 T. sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add rice to the liquid ingredients. An 
egg may be added. Combine with the dry ingredients and beat well. 
Cook by tablespoons, the same as other griddle cakes. 

Boiled Rice with Stewed Cherries. — To 3 cups of steamed rice 
add 2 cups of stewed cherries. Add sugar to taste. Serve hot. 

Turkish Pilaf. — 

3 c. rice 2 c. meat chopped and cooked 
1^ c. tomatoes ij4 c. water 

Mix rice with tomatoes and water, place alternate layer of the 
mixture of chopped meat in baking dish, cover with bread crumbs, 
bake until brown in moderate oven. 

Olla Podrida. — 
3 c. boiled rice 1^/2 c. fried onions 

2 c. cooked tomatoes 24 c - grated cheese 

Cover the bottom of baking dish with rice. Add alternate layers 
of onions, cheese, tomatoes and rice. Cover with crumbs and bake 
20 minutes. 

Tuna Fish or Salmon Salad with Rice. — Use equal amounts of 
fish and rice. Season with salt, pepper and vinegar. Stir in plenty 
of salad dressing and set away for a while in a cool place. When 
ready to serve add a little crisp celery, finely cut, or chopped nastur- 
tium stems. Serve on lettuce leaves. Two or three small strips of 
pimento arranged on the top adds to its attractiveness. 

Egg Salad with Rice. — Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on plates. 
In the center of each, place a generous spoonful of cold boiled rice 
and on this a spoonful, of salad dressing. Arrange on top of this, 
slices of hard cooked egg. 



28 



CORNSTARCH 
Fruit Pudding. — 
y 2 c. fruit juice 24 c - water 

2 or 3 cloves Sugar to taste 

Nuts or fruit 2 T. cornstarch 

y 8 t. salt 

Heat water, juice and salt. When boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
which has been mixed with a little cold water. Stir, until it thickens, 
over the direct flame. Add cloves and sugar. Cook x / 2 hour in a 
double boiler. Remove cloves. Add nuts or fruit and pour into 
molds. Chill and serve plain with fruit or cream. 

Cornstarch Pudding. — 

2 c. milk 2 egg whites 
4 T. cornstarch ]/ 2 t. vanilla 

y$ t. salt 2 T. sugar 

Mix dry ingredients and dilute with a little cold milk. Scald the 
rest of the milk and stir into this mixture. Cook to boiling point and 
stir constantly until mixture thickens and then cook in double boiler 
for 20 minutes. Remove from fire and fold in the beaten whites and 
flavoring. Pour into cups. Chill and serve with soft custard. 

Caramel Pudding. — 

3 T. cornstarch y 2 c. medium or dark 
y 2 c. boiling water brown sugar 

Mix cornstarch and sugar. Add boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Boil for 5 minutes. One-half cup of nut meats may be added. 



TAPIOCA 
Rhubarb Tapioca. — 
4 c. rhubarb y 2 c. pearl tapioca 

2 c. sugar 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water. Drain, add boiling 
water and cook until transparent. Add sugar, and rhubarb, peeled 
and cut into y 2 -'mch pieces, and bake until rhubarb is tender. Serve 
hot or cold with milk. 

Apple tapioca is made in the same way. 



2g 

Fruit Tapioca. — Boil l / 2 cup of minute tapioca in 3 cups of 
liquid (fruit juice and boiling water) until clear, adding more liquid 
if necessary. Then add sugar and fruit juice as desired. Cool and 
serve with cream. 

Jelly may be substituted for fruit juice. 

Fig Tapioca. — 
1/3 cup minute tapioca i l / 2 c. water 

J4 lb. diced figs y± c. light brown sugar 

Speck of cinnamon 

Mix the tapioca, sugar, figs and water. Boil, then cook in double 
boiler 1 hour. Add y 2 cup of nuts and y 2 teaspoon of vanilla. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. 

Chocolate Tapioca Pudding. — 

y$ c. pearl tapioca y 2 c. sugar 

3 c. scalded milk Pinch salt 

1 t. vanilla 1 sq. chocolate, grated 

Soak tapioca in cold water. Drain, add to hot milk. Mix sugar 
and chocolate and mix with milk. Cook until tapioca is transparent. 

Tapioca Au G rat in. — 

1 qt. water 1 c. tapioca 

1 onion, cut fine ]A c. milk or cream 

1 T. chopped pimento 1 T. fat 

Heat water to boiling point, then add the tapioca, stirring well. 
Cook all together 10 minutes. Add salt and paprika to taste. Turn 
into baking dish. Cover the top with grated cheese and put in oven 
until cheese is brown. Serve very hot. 

Caramel Pudding. — 

1 pt. boiling water 1 c. medium or dark brown 
1 egg sugar 

y 2 t. fat % t. vanilla 

y 2 c. tapioca Pinch of salt 

While water is boiling, add salt, then tapioca. Cook in double 
boiler until clear. Add fat, to which, when melted, add sugar. Cook 
2 minutes. Remove from fire and allow to stand while beating egg 
very light. Add vanilla and beat in egg with fork. Serve Cold. 



30 



HOMINY 

Lye Hominy. — Select sound, white corn. To every gallon of 
corn use I tablespoon of concentrated lye. Cover the corn with water. 
Boil slowly until the skin comes off easily and the dark tips on the 
grains begin to come out. Wash thoroly. Let soak (preferably over 
night) in cold water; drain; return to the kettle and boil in plenty of 
water until tender; put in a stone jar and set in a cool place and it 
will keep for several days. It may be canned and kept as long as 
desired. 

Soda Hominy. — Cover the corn with water. Add i tablespoon 
of baking soda for each cup of corn. Boil till hulls are softened and 
may be removed easily. Drain off the soda water and wash in cold 
water. Rub between the hands to remove any hulls. Wash repeatedly 
till all hulls are gone.. Add boiling water to the corn and boil until 
thoroly cooked. 

Creamed Hominy. — Reheat cold cooked hominy in hot white 
sauce. Parsley or a small amount of grated cheese may be added. 

Hominy Balls. — Shape cooked hominy into balls — mold with 
white sauce and season with cheese — or mold with tomato sauce. 
Roll in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Cold hominy may be mixed 
with egg, made into balls and cooked in deep fat. 

Hominy and Bacon. — Cut up several slices of bacon into small 
pieces. Fry until crisp and stir the hominy into this. Heat thru 
thoroly. 

MACARONI 

Macaroni should be broken in small pieces and added to boiling 
salted water. Cook 20 to 30 minutes until the starchy taste is gone. 
Drain. 

Macaroni with Oysters. — Put a layer of cooked macaroni in a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of oysters, season with butter, salt 
and pepper. Add a layer of white sauce. Repeat until the dish is 
full. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown 
and the whole dish heated thru. 

Macaroni Italian Style. — Prepare a sauce, using 2 tablespoons 
of fat, 2 tablespoons of flour, and y 2 cup each of brown stock and 
tomato juice. Cook a slice of onion in it, then remove. Season with 
salt and paprika. Then add cooked macaroni and y 2 cup of grated 
cheese. Sift with fork until sauce and cheese are thoroly mixed with 
macaroni and serve hot. 



3i 

Macaroni with Chicken (or other meat). — Cook a chicken until 
tender. Remove meat from bones and pick apart. Make a sauce of 
the chicken broth. Place alternate layers of chicken, cooked macaroni 
and sauce in a baking dish. Repeat until dish is full and pour a cup 
of cream over all. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until heated 
thru and crumbs are browned. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes and Peppers. — Put a layer of cooked 
macaroni in a greased baking dish, then a layer of sliced tomatoes. 
Sprinkle with chopped green peppers. Cover with a layer of thin 
tomato sauce. Repeat until the dish is full. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. — Prepare tomato sauce, using 2 
tablespoons of fat and 2 tablespoons of flour to 1 cup of tomato juice. 
Fill baking dish with layers of cooked macaroni and tomato sauce. 
Cover with crumbs and brown in oven. 



CORNMEAL 

Cornmeal Mush* — 

iy 2 cornmeal 6 c. boiling water 

2 t. salt 

Sift cornmeal slowly into boiling, salted water, stirring constantly 
to prevent it from lumping. Boil 10 minutes, then cook in double 
boiler or fireless cooker 3 to 5 hours. 

Polenta* — 
24 c. cornmeal 24 t. salt 

3 c. water 1 T. grated cheese 

Boil ingredients, with the exception of cheese, and finish cooking 
in double boiler from 3 to 5 hours, or cook over a free flame for y 2 
hour. Add grated cheese ; pour into pans and, when cold, cut in squares 
and fry in deep fat. 

Scrapple. — 
24 c. cornmeal 1/3 lb. pork with bone 

Salt and pepper (shoulder, neck or ham 

shank) 



* United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 565 
Cornmeal as a Food and Ways of Using It. 



32 

Cook pork in water until the meat can be easily removed from 
the bone. Remove meat. Boil down the broth to about a quart or 
add water to bring it up to this amount. Cook cornmeal in this. Add 
meat finely chopped, and seasonings. Pour into pans ; when cold, 
cut in slices and brown in hot fat. 

Meat and Cornmeal Croquettes. — 
i c. white cornmeal mush i c. chopped meat. 

Few drops onion juice Salt and pepper 

Combine the ingredients and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. 
White cornmeal may be very satisfactorily combined with any kind 
of cold meat to make croquettes. In general, cornmeal croquettes 
need not be egged and crumbed like ordinary croquettes, for the 
hardening of the cornmeal on the surface of the mixture forms the 
necessary crust. 

Southern Corn Bread. — 

2 c. cornmeal i t. salt 

i l /i c. thick sour milk i egg 

Y$ t. soda 3 t. melted drippings 

Beat egg in mixing bowl, add milk, sift in meal with soda and 
salt, and add melted fat. Beat quickly until well mixed, pour into 
hot well greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. Cut in squares 
and serve hot. Egg may be omitted. If sweetened corn bread is pre- 
ferred, use yellow corn meal and add 3 tablespoons of sugar. 

Rice and Cornmeal Muffins. — 
1 c. cooked rice 5 t. baking powder 

1 c. flour 1)4 c liquid 

1 t. salt 3 T. melted drippings 

1 c. cornmeal 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients together. Add rice to liquid 
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and pour into muffin 
pans and bake. 

r 

Corn Bread. — 

1 c. cornmeal 1 egg 

y 2 t. salt 4 t. baking powder 

*4 c. sugar 2/3 c. milk 

I c. white flour *4 c - melted fat 



33 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten egg, melted fat and liquid. Mix 
thoroly. Bake in a greased pan in a moderate oven. 

Roast Pork zvith Batter Pudding. — A dish corresponding to the 
Yorkshire pudding, which is frequently served with roast beef, can 
be made out of cornmeal to serve with roast pork. 

Y\ c. cornmeal y 2 t. salt 

i c. milk 2 eggs 

Mix the milk, cornmeal and salt and cook them about 10 minutes. 
After the mixture has cooled, add the eggs well beaten. Grease gem 
tins thoroly, allowing to each tin about I teaspoon of fat from the 
roast pork. Bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with the 
drippings of the pork. 

Cornmeal Mush zvith Fruit. — Cornmeal mush is often served 
with dried fruits, particularly with figs and dates. In preparing such 
fruit for use with mush it is usually necessary to soften it. This can 
be accomplished easily by washing the fruit and then heating it in 
a slow oven. As a result of the heat the water remaining on the fruit 
is absorbed and the fruit softened and also dried on the surface. 

Buttermilk Cornmeal Mitsh* — Cornmeal cooked in buttermilk 
makes a dish that resembles cottage cheese in flavor. It may be eaten 
hot, but is especially palatable when served very cold with cream. For 
this purpose it is sometimes molded in cups. In making it, allow i 
part of cornmeal to 6 parts of buttermilk, and I teaspoon of salt to 
each cup of meal. 

Cornmeal Dumplings. — 
2 c. cornmeal Boiling water 

i t. salt Flour for dredging 

Mix the meal and salt. Pour boiling water over the meal and 
stir thoroly, using water enough to make a thick paste. Form por- 
tions of the paste into flat dumplings about 3 inches in diameter. 
Have ready a kettle of boiling water and drop the dumplings in care- 
fully, cover and cook 20 minutes. These dumplings are often cooked 
with turnips tops or other greens, with or without the addition of 
ham bone or a piece of fat pork. 

Ash Cake.* — 

1 qt. cornmeal t T. lard or other shortening 

2 t. salt Boiling water 



34 

Scald the meal. Add the salt and shortening, and, when the 
mixture is cool, form it into oblong cakes, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Wrap the cakes in cabbage leaves, or place one cabbage leaf 
under the cakes and one over them, and cover them with hot ashes. 

Hoecake* — Hoecakes are made out of cornmeal, water and 
salt. They were originally baked before an open fire on a board which, 
for convenience, had a long handle attached to it. At present they 
are cooked slowly and on both sides on a well greased griddle. 

Com Dodger.* — The corn dodger is like the hoecake except it 
usually contains a small amount of fat. The meal is scalded and when 
cool is formed into cakes and cooked in a hot oven. 

Crackling Bread* — 
i qt. cornmeal 2 t. salt 

1 pt. cracklings Boiling water 

Mix the cornmeal and salt; pour over this mixture enough boil- 
ing water to moisten, but not enough to make a mush. When the 
meal has cooled, work the cracklings into it with the fingers. Form 
the dough into cakes about 4 inches long, 2 inches wide, and 1 inch 
thick; bake for 30 minutes. This bread, because of its large percentage 
of fat, is eaten without butter, and should be served very hot. 

"Cracklings" like "scraps" is a name given to the crisp, brown 
meat tissue left after lard is "tried out." Cracklings consist of con- 
nective tissue with a large amount of fat adhering to it. 

Spider Com Bread. — * 
iyi c. cornmeal 1 t. salt 

2 c. sour milk 2 eggs 

1 t. soda 2 T. fat 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add the eggs well beaten and the milk. 
Place the fat in a frying pan, melt it, and grease the pan well. Heat 
the pan and turn in the mixture. Place in a hot oven and cook 20 
minutes. 

Zuni Indian Bread. — * 

1 c. white cornmeal 1 t. salt 

1 c. yellow cornmeal l /% t. cayenne 

1 c. water 1 c. chopped suet 

Mix all well together; form into rolls about 5 inches long; roll 
in greased paper; and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. Serve hot. 



35 

The habit among the Indians was to roll these cakes in the husks 
of corn, a method which is sometimes followed by campers. 

Corn Muffins with Dates. — * 

i c. white cornmeal i c. wheat flour 

2 T. brown sugar 4 t. baking powder 

1 t. salt 1 egg 

2 T. fat x /2 c. dates cut into small 
1)4 c. milk pieces 

Cook together the first five ingredients for 10 minutes. When cool, 
add the egg, the dates, and the flour sifted with the baking powder. 
Beat thoroly and bake in muffin pans in a quick oven, or bake in a 
loaf. The bread will keep in good condition longer if the dates are 
cooked .with the cornmeal and other ingredients in the double boiler. 

Custard Corn Cake. — 
2 eggs 2 c. sweet milk 

Y\ c. sugar 1 2/3 c. cornmeal 

1 t. soda 1/3 c. wheat flour 

1 t. salt 2 T. fat 

1 c. sour milk 

Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroly. Sift the flour, soda, 
and salt together and mix with the meal. Mix all the ingredients but 
the fat. Melt the fat in a deep pan, using plenty on the sides. Pour 
in the batter. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes. When cooked there should 
be a layer of custard on top of the cake or small bits of custard dis- 
tributed thru it. 

Cornmeal and Hominy Bread. — 
1 c. cooked hominy 1 c. white cornmeal 

1 c. milk 2 eggs 

1 T. melted fat i l / 2 t. salt 

Mix the ingredients and bake 30 minutes in a mderate oven. 

Apple Corn Bread. — 

2 c. white cornmeal 1 t. baking powder 
2 T. sugar 1 2/3 c. milk 

l /> t. salt 3 tart apples pared and sliced 

Mix the dry ingredients, add milk, and beat thoroly. Add the 



36 

apples. Pour into a well buttered shallow pan and bake 30 minutes 
in hot oven. 

Spoon Bread. — 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs 
Cornmeal Salt 

Heat milk. When hot, stir in cornmeal and cook to a smooth 
mush that will pour rather than drop from the spoon. Take from 
tire, add salt and yolks of eggs, one at a time, stirring constantly. 
Then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs and bake in a moderate 
oven y 2 hour. Serve at once in baking dish. 

Fruit Spoon Bread. — Add to the spoon bread, as made in the 
preceding recipe, any fruit that is in season. Cooked dried prunes, 
apricots or peaches may be used. 

Cornmeal Pancakes. — 

2 c. flour V a c. sugar 

]/ 2 c. corn meal iy 2 c. boiling water 

l}4 T. baking powder 1/4 c. milk 

i l / 2 t. salt 1 egg 

2 T. fat 

Add meal to boiling water and boil 5 minutes. Turn into bowl, 
add milk and remaining dry ingredients mixed and sifted, then the 
egg well beaten and the fat. Cook on a griddle. 

Cornmeal and Wheat Waffles. — 
l x / 2 c. water l% T. baking powder 

y 2 c. cornmeal i l / 2 t. salt 

i l / 2 c. milk Yolks 2 eggs 

3 c. flour Whites 2 eggs 
3 T. sugar 2 T. melted fat 

Cook the meal in boiling water 20 minutes. Add milk, dry in- 
gredients mixed and sifted, yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, fat and whites 
of eggs beaten stiff. Cook on a greased waffle iron. 

Cornmeal and Rice Waffles. — 

y 2 c. cornmeal 1 T. melted fat 

y 2 c. flour y 2 t. soda 

1 c. boiled rice 1 t. salt 

2 eggs well beaten 1 c. sour milk 



37 

Sift together the flour, soda and salt. Add the other ingredients 
and beat, thoroly. 

Fruit Gems. — 

i c. cornmeal y 2 c. raisins 

i l / 2 c. milk y 2 c. currant 

i t. salt i t. baking powder 

Cook the meal and salt in the milk for a few minutes. When 
cool add the baking powder and beat thoroly. Add the fruit and bake 
in well greased muffin tins. 

Cornmeal and Fig Pudding. — 
i c. cornmeal I c. finely chopped figs or 

i c. molasses any other dried fruit 

6 c. milk (or 4 of milk and 2 eggs 
2 of cream) 1 t. salt 

Cook the cornmeal with 4 cups of the milk, add the figs and salt. 
When the mixture is cool, add the eggs well beaten. Pour into a 
buttered pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven for 3 or more 
hours. When partly cooked add the remainder of the milk without 
stirring the pudding. 

Indian Meal Doughnuts. — 

y A c. milk 24 c. sugar 

\y 2 c. very fine white corn- 2 eggs well beaten 

meal 1 t. cinnamon 

1*4 c. wheat flour 2 t. baking powder 

y c. fat 1 level t. salt 

Put milk and meal into a double boiler and heat together for about 
10 minutes. Add the fat and sugar to the meal. Sift together the 
wheat flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. Add these and the 
eggs to the meal. Roll out on floured board. Cut and cook in deep 
fat. 

Indian Pudding. — 
1 qt. milk y 2 t. salt 

1 c. cornmeal 1 t. cinnamon 

y c. currants or raisins . y 2 c. flour 

I c. chopped suet 1 t. baking powder 

y 3 c. molasses 



38 

Make a smooth mush with milk and cornmeal. Then add cur- 
rants, suet, and sifted dry ingredients. Mix thoroly. Turn into 
greased molds and steam 3 hours. 

BREAD 
Potato Bread. — 

y 2 lb. uncooked potato 2.y 2 c. flour 

1 t. salt % cake compressed yeast 

1 t. sugar 

Boil the potatoes in skins. Drain, dry, peel and mash. Add the 
salt and sugar. Blend the yeast in 1 / 3 cup of the water which was 
drained from the potatoes. Beat this into the potato, then knead in 
the flour to make a stiff dough. Form into a loaf and let rise till 
thoroly light. Bake from 50 minutes to 1 hour. 

Rice Bread. — 
y 2 c. rice cooked in i l / 2 c. it. sugar 

water *4 ca ke compressed yeast 

1 t. salt softened in 2 T. water 

1 t. fat 
Flour 

Mix all ingredients thoroly, adding sufficient flour to make a stiff 
dough. Form into a loaf and bake when well risen. 

Oatmeal Bread. — 

1 c. water i l / 2 c. rolled oats 

1 t. salt iy 2 t. sugar 

1%. to 1^2 c. flour % cake compressed yeast 

Blend the yeast with 2 tablespoons of the water. Heat the re- 
mainder of the water to boiling and pour over the oatmeal, salt and 
sugar, scalding thoroly. ' This may be done in a double boiler and kept 
hot for 5 to 10 minutes. Cool to lukewarm, stir in the yeast, then 
add flour to make a fairly stiff dough. Make into a loaf at once and 
when double in bulk bake thoroly, at least 1 hour. Bread may be 
made using a larger amount of rolled oats and a smaller amount of 
flour, but naturally, the greater the proportion of rolled oats used the 
closer the texture of the bread will be. 

Generally speaking, the most satisfactory results are obtained 
by using these various materials in the making of quick breads such 
as muffins, biscuits, etc., and a few directions are given ; 



39 

Oatmeal Muffins. — 
2 c. rolled oats i c. flour 

Y t. salt i T. molasses 

i T. fat i c. milk 

2 t. baking powder 

Bake in muffin pans. 

Oatmeal Hoecake. — 
4 c. rolled oats 4 T. cornmeal 

i t. salt 

Scald with 2 cups of boiling water, stirring over the fire for a 
moment until the mass thickens to a mush. When cool enough to 
handle, form into cakes by rolling into balls about the size of an egg, 
then flattening these out to about % inch in thickness. By first dip- 
ping the hands in water, the cakes may be made without much trouble 
from sticking. Place the cakes in a hot, well greased pan and con- 
tinue the heating either in the oven or on top of the stove, until the 
under sides begin to brown. Turn them over, place pan in medium hot 
oven and bake for 45 minutes. 

Southern Corn Pone. — 
\ x / 2 c. white cornmeal 1 c. boiling water 

2 T. milk 1 t salt 

Add the salt to the meal and scald with the boiling water, stirring 
well. Add enough milk to hold the ingredients together. When cool 
enough to handle, form into cakes by rolling into balls in the hands 
and flattening these down to about y 2 inch in thickness. Have ready 
a pan well greased, place over the fire and add the pones, dipping a 
little of the shortening over the tops of the pones. Leave the pan 
over the fire until the bread is browning slightly and then set in a hot 
oven and finish baking for from 30 to 45 minutes on the upper grate. 

Bread Crumb Croquettes, No. 1. — 

4 c. crumbs ffom stale bread 
Yi c. any leftover vegetable or meat 
Seasoning 

Milk, water or stock to moisten the crumbs 
Form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg then in dried 
crumbs. Fry. Drain on clean manila paper, Serve hot, 



40 

Bread Crumb Croquettes, No. 2. — See Fruit Croquettes. 

Bread Crumb Griddle Cakes. — 
iy 2 c. fine stale bread crumbs ]/ 2 t. salt 

y 2 c. scalded milk 2 T. melted fat 

2 eggs y 2 c. flour 

4 t. baking powder 

Add milk and fat to crumbs and allow them to soak until soft. 
Add beaten eggs, then the flour which is sifted with the salt and bak- 
ing powder. 

GRAHAM FLOUR 

Steamed Graham Pudding. — 
34 c. butter y 2 c. molasses 

y 2 t. soda y 2 c. milk 

1 egg 1 c. chopped raisins, 

1 t. salt dates or figs 

i/^ c. graham flour 

Mix butter, molasses, milk and beaten eggs and the dry in- 
gredients. Turn into a buttered mold and steam 2 y 2 hours. 

Graham Biscuits. — 

iy 2 c. graham flour 1 c. liquid 

iy 2 c. white flour 3 T. fat 

\y 2 t. salt 6 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly thru by 
cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly with the fingers. Add 
the liquid, mixing with a knife. Turn the mixture on floured bread 
board. Roll or pat to y 2 inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 
15 to 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Graham Mush. — 
24 c. graham flour 2 c. boiling water, salted 

Gradually stir the flour into the water. Boil continuously, stirring 
often, for 30 or 40 minues, or boil 10 minutes and finish cooking in 
the double boiler for two or three hours. 

Graham Pudding. — To graham mush, prepared a.s directe4 
above, from % c. graham flour, add about; 



4i 

y 2 c. sugar i doz. dates or 6 figs or 2 

y c. nut meats doz. raisins, chopped 

Serve hot, with or without cream or milk, or pour into molds and 
serve cold. 

Hot Water Gingerbread. — 

}/ 2 c. sugar 2 t. soda 

1 c. molasses 2^2 c. flour 

l / 2 c. fat 2 eggs 

1 c. boiling water 1 t. cinnamon 

1 t. ginger 1 t. cloves 

Pinch salt 

Sift flour with the soda and spices. Add the melted fat to the 
water and molasses. Combine with the sugar. Add the flour mixture, 
and lastly the well beaten eggs. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Spice Cake Without Eggs. — 
%. c. fat y c. sugar 

2/3 c. sour milk 1/3 t. soda 

y 2 t. cinnamon y t. allspice 

l /\ t. nutmeg iy 2 c. flour 

y 2 c. raisins 

Cream the fat. Add the sugar gradually. Add alternately the 
milk and flour which has been sifted with the soda and the spices. 
Add the cut raisins which have been floured. Bake in a moderate 
oven. Sour cream may be substituted for the sour milk and the 
other fat omitted. Sweet milk may be substituted for the sour milk 
and 2y 2 teaspoons of baking powder used instead of the soda. 

Apple Sauce Cake. — 

y 2 c. fat 2 c. flour 

1 c. raisins, chopped and 1 c. sugar 

floured y 2 t. nutmeg 

iy 2 t. cinnamon 1 c. unsweetened apples 

1 t. soda Pinch salt 

Cream the fat and add the sugar. Mix well. Add raisins and 
apples and then the flour which is sifted with the soda, salt and 
spices. 



42 



BUCKWHEAT 

Buckwheat Short Cake. — 

i c. milk i c. buckwheat flour 

2 t. baking powder % c. white flour 

i t. salt i t. fat 

Sift the baking powder with the flour. Add salt and milk. Beat 
to a smooth batter. Add the melted fat. Pour the mixture into a 
pan, having it about y* inch thick. Bake 25 minutes in a rather 
quick oven. Cut into squares and serve hot. This batter may be 
baked in muffin pans. 

SOYBEANS 

Soybeans have been used as human food in China for hundreds 
of years. Their value is now beginning to be appreciated in this 
country. 

The composition of soybeans is approximately as follows : pro- 
tein, 36.5 percent; fat, 17.5 percent; carbohydrate, including fiber, 
30.0 percent. Fully 80 percent of these are in digestible form, giv- 
ing a food value not approached by any ordinary food material 
excepting cheese. The composition of soybean meal is practically the 
same as that of the beans themselves, unless a part of the oil has been 
extracted in the process of manufacture. Where this has been done 
the fat content is, of course, lowered. 

Soybean milk is prepared by mixing 1 part meal with 10 parts 
boiling water, allowing the mixture to boil up several times. It may 
then be strained thru a cheesecloth, or merely allowed to stand until 
the coarser particles of meal settle, when the liquid can be poured 
off. This milk is found to have, about the following composition : 
protein, 3.7 percent; fat, 2.0 percent; carbohydrate, 1.8 percent; 
mineral salts, 0.5 percent. 

Dry soybeans possess a strong, characteristic flavor which must 
be gotten rid of before they can be served satisfactorily. In order 
to do this, it is best to soak them over night, using a large amount 
of hot water. In the morning they should be well rinsed, and put to 
cook in water to which baking soda has been added (about 1 teaspoon 
of soda to each cup of beans). This water may be poured off after 
40 minutes boiling and fresh, hot water added. Four or five hours 
of cooking will usually be found sufficient, after which the beans may 
be seasoned in a variety of ways. Several sauces are suggested. 



43 

Tomato Sauce: — 
i T. fat i c. tomato juice 

i T. flour Salt and pepper 

Brown the flour in the fat, add the tomato and seasonings. Let 
boil well, and pour over the beans. Serve hot. This amount is suf- 
ficient for 2 cups of beans. 

Sour Sauce: — 

i T. fat i c. liquor in which beans 

i T. flour were cooked 

Salt and pepper 

Prepare same as tomato sauce. Add 2 tablespoons chopped 
pickle. 

A gravy made with meat stock gives a good flavor. In all 
cases the results are better if the beans are thoroly heated in the sauce 
before serving. 

If baked beans are wanted, the pork and other seasonings may 
be added when the water is changed, and the cooking finished in the 
oven. 

The green soybeans are excellent, altho the pods are too tough 
to be eaten. They should be boiled in the pods, however, since they 
can then be shelled much more easily than when raw. 

Soybean meal will be found to be a useful substitute for wheat 
flour in bread, biscuits and muffins. One part meal to two parts 
wheat flour gives a well flavored bread of good texture. A still larger 
proportion of the meal can be used in biscuits, muffins and other quick 
breads. 

Soybean-meal soup is especially satisfactory to serve in an emer- 
gency, because of the short time required in its preparation. For 
each person to be served use 

1 T. soybean meal 
■| T. butter or drippings 
I c. water (hot) 
Salt and pepper 

Melt the fat in a sauce pan, blend the meal with it, then add the 
hot water gradually, stirring the mixture to a smooth paste. Let boil 
for a few minutes. A little onion juice or celery salt may be added. 
Soybean milk may be substituted for cow's milk in the making 
of bread and biscuits, and in the preparation of custards, cornstarch 



44 

puddings, white sauces and gravies. It is also satisfactory when 
eaten with bread as ordinary "bread and milk." 

The curd, or cheese-like substance which forms in the soy- 
bean milk on treating with an acid, may be used in a variety of ways. 
On account of its high protein content, it seems best to serve it in 
combination with a starchy material in much the same way as salmon 
and crackers are combined in escalloped dishes, or in croquettes. 



\-JCt\ilorci : 
PAMPHLET BINDEfl 

Syracuse, N. Y. 

Stockton, Calif. 




1 1 TX 357 
.05 
Copy 1 



Utilization of Food 



RECIPES 



PREPARED BY THE 

HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 



Issued by 

AGRICULTURAL DIVISION 

OHIO BRANCH 
COUNCIL OF NATIONAL DEFENSE 



D. of D. 
AUG 20 1917 






UTILIZATION OF FOOD 



The insistent demand for providing the proper kind of food that 
the housekeeper faces daily is a problem of ever increasing difficulty 
as food prices soar. Because of high prices and food shortages, diets 
are more and more restricted and are likely to be cut down in food 
materials that have risen most in price, regardless of their food value 
or their necessity to the welfare of the individual. This condition 
makes it imperative that she study what the vital needs of the family 
are, together with the range of available food materials that will sup- 
ply these needs. 

She must be prepared to persuade her family to abandon many 
of their decided opinions and preferences regarding particular dishes, 
combinations and substitutions. Manifestly, in such a situation it be- 
comes increasingly necessary that the housewife study how to utilize 
the food materials on the market in order that the family may not feel 
too severely the inevitable deprivations. For example, if meat is 
omitted from a meal a savory and palatable dish should be served in 
its place, which would, in most cases, not only be satisfying, but 
actually be appreciated because of the offered variety. 

It must not be forgotten that the needs of the body include tis- 
sue-building foods, fuel foods and foods for regulating body proc- 
esses. The food compounds as used by the body are called nutrients 
and are classified as proteins, fats, carbohydrates, water, mineral salts 
and vitamines. Food materials rarely contain one nutrient alone, but 
a combination of several, tho one may occur in larger proportion or 
a food may be valued largely because of one nutrient. A good ex- 
ample of this is found in beans, they are especially valued for protein 
tho they contain large amounts of starch. 

Tissue-building foods include proteins, mineral salts and water. 
The ordinary sources of protein are meat, eggs, cheese, milk, cereals 
and legumes. Mineral salts occur most abundantly in milk, fruits, 
and green vegetables. Water is so freely used as a beverage that it 
is not necessary that it be considered in the selection of foods. 

Fuel foods include proteins, fats and carbohydrates. These fur- 
nish the energy for body activity and for body warmth. The unit of 
measure for this energy is called a calorie, just as the measure of length 
is called a foot. .The heat yield of a substance is measured in terms 



of calories. For instance, an ounce of high grade anthracite coal will 
yield approximately 226 calories. An ounce of protein or of carbo- 
hydrate will yield approximately 116 calories, while an ounce of fat 
yields approximately 261 calories or two and one-fourth times as much 
as either protein or carbohydrate. These heat values hold true pro- 
vided every particle is burned, but just as coal is not always reduced 
to ashes in the engine, so food may not be entirely utilized. The fuel 
value of any given food material, then, depends on the proteins, fats 
and carbohydrates that it contains, which are digested. In most 
tables giving food composition, the fuel value or number of calories 
which a pound of the food material will yield is also stated. This is 
a sort of index to its food value, tho estimates of body needs cannot 
be based on this alone, since certain food materials high in calorific 
value, such as lard or sugar for example, may yield no tissue-build- 
ing or regulatory nutrients. However, foods high in carbohydrates 
and fat furnish the great bulk of energy for our activities, and must 
be included in liberal amounts in the diet. 

The best known forms of carbohydrate are starches and sugars. 
The framework of plants is ma^de up of woody fiber, or cellulose, 
which belongs to the carbohydrate group, but this substance cannot 
be digested to any appreciable extent by human beings. It is never- 
theless of value in the diet, because it gives bulk to the food and stimu- 
lates the movements of the intestines. Such foods as vegetables, 
fruits, entire wheat flour and cornmeal contain large amounts of 
cellulose. It must be remembered, however, that when cellulose is 
included as part of the carbohydrate, it does not represent real nu- 
tritive value, since no appreciable quantity is digested and absorbed. 

Fat is secured from either animal or vegetable sources. Salad 
oils and nut butter furnish fat for the vegetarian, while in ordinary 
diets the bulk of the fat is furnished by butter or meat, both from 
animal sources. Weight for weight, fat yields over twice as much 
heat as either protein or carbohydrate, and is spoken of as a con- 
centrated food. Fats are far more costly fuel foods than carbohy- 
drates. To a certain extent carbohydrate may replace fat and vice 
versa. Both may be used as fuel and if more is supplied than is needed 
for immediate use, both will normally be stored as body fat. For 
example, it is well known that in fattening cattle, stockmen make use 
of grains which contain large amounts of starch. In the same way, 
if larger amounts of starchy or sw r eet foods are eaten than are needed 
for fuel, the reserve will be stored as fat. Therefore, the person who 
is dieting to reduce flesh should avoid starchy and sweet foods as 
well as those high in fat. Fat, as such, is distasteful to many chil- 



dren, making it necessary sometimes to disguise the fat with other 
foods in order to include a sufficient amount. 

The regulatory functions of water, mineral salts and vitamines 
make their inclusion in the diet in sufficient quantity imperative. 

The term mineral salt does not mean merely ordinary table salt, 
but many other substances such as lime, phosphorus and iron salts. 
Table salt is frequently used in too large quantities, unnecessarily 
taxing the excretory organs to get rid of it. Ordinary dietaries are 
often found to be lacking in mineral salts. The bad results of this 
lack are seen more easily in children than in adults. Such disorders 
as infantile scurvy, and rickets are corrected by feeding the proper 
amount and kinds of food materials, and, if the diet is properly 
selected, need never occur. This is why mothers are told by physicians 
to feed fruit juices to small infants, especially if they are being arti- 
ficially fed. If sufficient lime salts are not given growing children, the 
bone development suffers, and for this reason liberal supplies of milk 
are advised. All diets should include a liberal supply of iron-rich 
foods, such as fresh fruits and vegetables. If meat and eggs, which 
are high in iron, are not eaten, special care must be taken to supply 
the necessary iron from other foods. The best sources of mineral 
salts are fresh fruits, vegetables, milk, eggs and cereal grains from 
which the outside coats have not been removed. 

The group of food constituents known as vitamines occur in 
very minute quantities, but they are essential to growth and complete 
nutrition. It has been found in experimenting with animals that diets 
otherwise sufficient will fail to maintain life and promote growth 
unless vitamines are included. Lack of these in the diets result in 
certain nutritional diseases such as scurvy, rickets and probably pel- 
lagra. 

The food materials relatively rich in vitamines are egg yolk, raw 
milk, fresh meats, fresh vegetables and fruits, and unbolted cereals. 

It is known that certain foods yield acids in digestion and this 
acidity must be corrected by the use of a sufficient amount of those 
foods which yield alkaline salts or bases. The natural reaction of 
the blood is alkaline and, in order to maintain its alkalinity, these salts 
must be furnished in abundance in the food. It is necessary that 
foods yielding acid in digestion be balanced by foods yielding alkaline 
salts. In a restricted diet there is some danger that this important 
fact in the selection of food may be overlooked. It must be borne 
in mind that acid-producing foods are not distinguished by sour 
tastes, since all fruits including lemons, are base producers. In gen- 
eral, meats, eggs and cereals are acid producers, and fruits, vegetables 
and milk are base producers. 



MEASUREMENTS 

All measurements are level. To measure a level teaspoon, fill the 
spoon rounding full and level it off with the edge of a knife. To 
measure l /2 teaspoon, cut i teaspoon in two lengthwise; to measure 
^4 teaspoon, cut Yi teaspoon in two crosswise. Flour is sifted once 
before measuring. The following measures are only approximate: 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon. 

1 6 tablespoons = i cup (dry material). 
12 tablespoons = i cup (liquid). 

i cup = Yi pint. 
16 ounces = i pound. 

2 cups butter = i pound. 

2 cups sugar = i pound. 

2 cups chopped meat = I pound. 

4 cups white flour = i pound. 

2 tablespoons butter = i ounce. 
2 tablespoons sugar = i ounce. 
4 tablespoons flour = i ounce. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

T. — tablespoon qt. — ■ quart 

t. — teaspoon gal. — gallon 

c. — cup oz. — ounce 

pt. — pint lb. — pound 



RECIPES 

MILK 

SWEET MILK 
Skim milk nwy be used in all these dishes. 
Milk soups or cream soups are prepared by adding to thin white 
sauce an equal amount of vegetable pulp. 

Cereals cooked with milk have a somewhat different flavor and 
a higher nutritive value than if cooked in water. Part water is used 
for the first ten minutes of boiling and milk is added as needed dur- 
ing the remainder of the cooking. 

Potato Chowder. — 
6 medium sized potatoes, cut i T. fat 

in small cubes. i pt. milk 

y 4 lb. salt pork, diced I pt. water 

i T. onion, chopped i t. salt 

i T. flour 

Cook the pork and onions together until a delicate brown. Add 
this mixture and the water to the potatoes. Cook until potatoes are 
tender but not mashed. Make a white sauce of the fat, flour and milk 
and add it to the potatoes. Serve hot. 

Corn Chowder. — Add I can or i pint of fresh corn to potato 
chowder in which the amount of potato is reduced. 

Fish Chowder. — See "Fish." 

Chocolate. — 
4 c. milk i T. cornstarch 

4 T. sugar 2 c. water (boiling) 

Y A t. salt i t. vanilla 

2 sq. or 4 T. chocolate 

(unsweetened) 

Scald the milk in a kettle with an asbestos mat under it and oyer 
a slow fire. In another kettle, cut the chocolate up with a paring 
knife; measure sugar, cornstarch and salt in this kettle; mix, and, 
stirring constantly, gradually add boiling water. Place kettle on stove 
and boil 5 or 6 minutes, continuing to stir. Stir into scalded milk. 
Add vanilla and beat with Dover egg-beater to prevent scum form- 
ing. The cornstarch may be omitted. 

5 



Milk Toast. — To heated milk add butter, salt and pepper. Pour 
over dry toast. If desired, it may be served as cream toast by pour- 
ing thin white sauce (2 T. fat and y 2 T. flour to 1 c. milk) over the 
toast. 

SOUR MILK 

Sour milk may be used as the liquid in the making of batters, 
griddle cakes, muffins, cakes, etc. The proportion of soda to each cup 
of sour milk should not exceed % teaspoon. 

Clabber. — Freshly soured milk may be eaten as custard, served 
with or without sugar. It may be beaten vigorously and served as a 
beverage in the place of buttermilk. 

Sour Milk Whey. — Whey may be used for the liquid in bread 
making, or in batters, in custards and as the basis of a gelatin founda- 
tion for a vegetable salad. 

Cottage Cheese. — Heat sour milk gradually over a slow fire 
until the curd and whey begin to separate. Strain thru a cheese- 
cloth. Season the curd with salt, pepper and perhaps cream or butter. 

Cottage Cheese Salad. — The cheese may be combined with 
chopped nuts, olives, pickle, pimento or celery and shaped into balls 
and served on lettuce with a bit of salad dressing. This makes good 
sandwich filling. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Method of Making. — 

1 c. milk 2 T. flour 

2 T. fat Salt and pepper 

Melt fat in pan, add flour and mix thoroly. Remove pan from 
fire and gradually add the milk, stirring constantly to avoid formation 
of lumps. After these are thoroly mixed, return pan to fire and boil 
the sauce thoroly. Add salt and pepper. 



Kind of White Sauce 


Ingredients 


Uses 


Milk 


Flour 


Fat 


No. 1. Thin 

No. 2. Thin 

No. 3. Medium 

No. 4. Thick 


1 c. 
1 c. 

1 c. 

I'd. 


J T. 

1 T. 

2 T. 

3 T. 


1 T. 

2 T. 

3 T. 


Soups, etc. 

Cream toast and some vege- 
tables. 

Most vegetables. 

Croquettes, creamed oysters, 
and meat. 



The character and uses of white sauce may be varied by the kind 
of liquid that may be substituted for the milk. For example, in white 
sauce No. 2, fruit juice may be used instead of milk and the sauce 
served with desserts. In all of them the water in which vegetables 
or meat have been cooked may be substituted for the milk and the 
sauce used for most purposes. 

Tomato sauce is made by using tomato juice instead of milk. 

Cheese sauce is made by adding to each cup of white sauce, made 
with milk, about four tablespoons of cheese, grated or chopped fine. 

By varying the thickening agent, the sauce may be varied, as in 
brown sauce. If cornstarch is used instead of flour, use two-thirds 
as much. 

Brozvn sauce is made by allowing the melted fat to brown and 
the flour to brown in the fat. Or, the flour may first be browned by 
heating it in a dry pan, stirring constantly to prevent burning. 
Browned flour has not the same thickening power as white flour so 
that about twice as much is required. 

Bread sauce is made by using dry bread crumbs instead of the 
flour. Use twice as much as the amount of flour required. 

By varying the kind of fat, the flavor may be changed. For 
meats and -vegetables, savory fats, bacon, ham and sausage fats may 
be used and the product is ordinary gravy. Rendered suet or pork 
fat may be used or the drippings from meat cooked in any way. Oleo 
or butter will give a flavor different from other fats. 

BREAD CRUMBS 

Bread crumbs, as mentioned in the following directions, means 
bread that has been dried in the oven, (but not browned) and put thru 
the food grinder or crushed with a rolling pin. 

Stale bread crumbs are crumbs prepared from stale bread by grat- 
ing the loaf or by rubbing one piece against another. 

Buttered Crumbs. — Melt 1 tablespoon of fat in a pan. Add 4 
or 5 tablespoons bread crumbs and mix thoroly. 

VEGETABLES 

Creamed Vegetables. — Add ^2 cup of white sauce to each cup 
of cooked vegetables. 

Escalloped Vegetables. — Arrange the cooked vegetable in a bak- 
ing dish in alternate layers with white sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, if desired, and brown in the oven. Cheese, curry, hard cooked 
eggs, peppers, chopped meat and fish may be added if desired. 

3 



8 

Vegetable Soup. — For cream soup add to each cup of thin white 
sauce an equal amount of vegetable pulp or chopped vegetables. 

To make vegetable soup without milk, the water in which vege- 
tables, rice, macaroni, hominy or meat is cooked is used as the basis. 
The vegetables may be cut in small cubes or may be forced thru a 
strainer and the pulp used. 

Croquettes. — Leftover vegetables may be made into croquettes 
by combining with thick white sauce, mashed potato, cooked rice, 
macaroni, hominy, or cornmeal mush. They may be rolled in corn- 
meal, flour, or egg and crumbs, and then fried in deep fat. 

Vegetable Salads. — Diced or shredded vegetables may be added 
to a sour gelatin mixture. They may be served with dressings of 
various sorts. They may be combined with hard cooked eggs, meat, 
nuts, or cottage cheese. 

Carrots and Peas. — Cook i cup of diced carrots in boiling salted 
water. Add to carrots i cup of cooked peas. Prepare a sauce of 3 
tablespoons of fat, 3 tablespoons of flour, 1 cup of meat stock and y 2 
cup of milk ; season with salt and pepper. Heat vegetables and sauce 
thoroly and serve. 

Curried Vegetables. — 
1 c. potato cubes y c. turnip cubes 

1 c. carrot Y? c. canned peas 

Cook potatoes, carrot and turnip until soft, add peas and serve 
with the following sauce : 

Cook 2 tablespoons of fat with 2 slices of onion, remove onion, 
add 2 tablespoons of flour. -)4 teaspoon of salt, l /s, teaspoon of pepper, 
]/ 2 teaspoon of curry powder, y teaspoon of celery salt, then add 1 
cup of water or milk. Heat the vegetables in this sauce, sprinkle 
chopped parsley over it and serve. 

Escalloped Cabbage. — 
Cabbage White sauce 

Buttered crumbs 

Cook cabbage until tender in boiling salted water, changing water 
two or three times ; do not overcook. Arrange in baking dish, alternate 
layers of cabbage and white sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
brown in oven. 

Escalloped Turnips. — Wash and pare turnips, cut in small cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water. If turnips are old and strong, change 
water during cooking. Arrange in layers with cracker crumbs and 



butter (as you would for escalloped oysters). Moisten thoroly with 
milk, cover with buttered crumbs and bake. 



Tomato Soup. I. 
2 c. tomatoes 
2 t. sugar 
i t. salt 
2 slices onion 



4 c. milk 
^ t. (?) soda 
4 T. flour 
4 T. butter 



Scald milk with onion, remove onion, make into white sauce with 
flour and butter. Heat tomatoes, add soda and rub thru a sieve. Stir 
tomato into milk, add seasonings and serve. 



Tomato Soup. II. — 
2 c. tomatoes 
2 t. sugar 
2 slices onion 
6 cloves 
Sprig parsley 
54 t. soda 



Bay leaf 

y c. stale bread crumbs 

4 c. milk 

i t. salt 

% t. pepper 

4 T. butter 



Scald milk with bread crumbs, onion, parsley, cloves and bay leaf. 
Remove these seasonings and rub thru a sieve. Heat tomato, add 
soda and rub thru a sieve. To hot milk add tomatoes and the rest 
of the seasonings. 



Tomato Soup. III. — 



2 c. tomato juice 
2 slices onion 



l / 8 t. pepper 
i t. salt 



Bay leaf 



Mix ingredients together and heat. Strain and serve. 

Parsnip Fritters. — Mash thoroly cooked parsnips, season with 
butter, salt and pepper; shape into small flat cakes; dip in flour or in 
egg and bread crumbs or in a plain batter and brown in hot fat. 



Tomato Jelly Salad. 
i can tomatoes 
i t. salt 



2,y 2 T. gelatin 
i t. sugar 



Stew and strain tomatoes, add salt and sugar. Soak gelatin in 
cold water and dissolve in hot tomato juice. Pour into molds and 
chill. Serve on lettuce and garnish with mayonnaise dressing. 



IO 

Vegetable Salad. — 
i c. cold-cooked carrot cubes i c. cold-cooked potato cubes 
i c. cold-cooked peas i c. cold-cooked string beans 

2 or 3 hard boiled eggs (if Parsley 

desired) 

Combine ingredients and serve with French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Garnish with parsley or egg. 

Cream Dressing. — 
Yolks 3 eggs or 2 whole eggs i T. sugar 

2 T. flour i t. salt 

i T. butter y 2 c. vinegar 

i t. mustard Paprika 

Mix dry ingredients, then add vinegar and cook until very stiff. 
Place in double boiler and add eggs, as soon as they thicken, remove 
from heat. Add butter and cool. A glass can is the most suitable 
place for keeping this dressing, which will keep indefinitely. Dilute 
with whipped or plain cream, either sweet or sour, just before serv- 
ing. 

French Salad Dressing. — 

3 T. oil i T. vinegar or lemon juice 
l /% t. pepper y t. salt 

Mix salt and pepper with oil, add vinegar or lemon juice slowly 
and beat until well blended. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. — 

Yolk i egg i T. lemon juice 

i T. vinegar }i c. oil 

y 2 t. sugar y 2 t. salt 

Few grains of paprika y 2 t. mustard (if desired) 

Mix dry ingredients in a cup and add vinegar and lemon juice. 
Add this mixture to egg yolk, beat thoroly with Dover egg beater. 
Add oil by teaspoons, beating after each addition until about 6 tea- 
spoons have been added. It may then be added more rapidly. If 
for any reason the mixture separates, add it slowly to another egg, 
just as the oil alone was used in starting the dressing. This dressing 
may be varied by the addition of chopped olives and pickles. 

Greens. — The leaves- of many plants may be used as greens, 



II 



cooking them in boiling salted water until tender, with or without 
bacon, a ham bone or fat salt pork. If the leaves have too strong a 
flavor, the water may be turned off after boiling for 5 or 10 minutes 
and fresh water added. The following plants may be used: 



Cultivated 
Spinach 
Swiss chard 
Beet tops 
Turnip tops 
Carrot tops 
Radish tops 
Horseradish 
Rhubarb 
Kale 
Rape 

Tomato Toast. — 
1 qt. tomatoes 
r /2 t. pepper 



Uncultivated 
Dandelions 
Mustard 
Sour dock 
Purslane 
Pepper cress 



2 t. salt 
2 T. butter 



Force tomatoes thru strainer, add the salt, pepper, butter and 
cook for about 5 minutes. Place pieces of hot, buttered toast on a 
platter and pour the hot tomato over them. A poached egg may be 
put upon each piece of toast. 

Green Tomatoes. — Green tomatoes may be canned or stewed 
like ripe tomatoes and used in similar ways. They may also be pre- 
pared by slicing, dipping in flour or meal and browning in hot fat. 



Green Tomato Mince Meat. — 



x /t peck green tomatoes 

chopped 
yi peck sour apples, pared 

and chopped 
3 lb. brown sugar 
2 lb. raisins 



1 c. vinegar 
4 T. flour 

1 c. suet chopped fine 

2 t. each of cinnamon, all- 
spice and cloves 



As the juice collects from the chopped tomato, drain it off. Mix 
the flour with the sugar. Mix all ingredients and cook about y 2 hour. 

Swiss Chard. — The leaves of the chard are prepared as spinach 
or any kind of greens. The large white midrib may be boiled and 
used as celery or asparagus, stewed, creamed or as salad. It may 
be canned for winter use. 



Creamed Radishes. — Pare and cook in boiling water until tender. 
Serve in white sauce. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — Bake potatoes, cut a slice from top of each, 
or cut in two lengthwise, and remove potato from skin. To six 
medium sized potatoes add salt, pepper, 2 tablespoons butter and 3 
tablespoons milk or cream. Beat until the potato is very light. Re- 
fill skins and brown in oven. 

Mashed Potatoes. — 
6 boiled potatoes 1 t. salt 

Milk or cream 3 T. butter 

Cook potatoes in their jackets, peel and mash, add butter and salt. 
Mix thoroly and add milk, beating vigorously. Pile lightly in a hot 
dish and serve. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Wash, pare very thin and cut into slices. 
Put a layer in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and put over it small pieces of butter. Repeat these layers 
until dish is full. Cover with milk and bake until potatoes are soft. 

Potato Puffs. — 

2 c. mashed potatoes 2 eggs 

3 T. cream or milk 1 T. butter 

Salt and pepper as needed 

Heat potatoes in saucepan, add beaten yolks of eggs, cream and 
seasonings. Beat until well mixed and potatoes heated. Carefully 
add the beaten whites. Pile lightly in a greased baking dish. Bake 
in oven until browned. 

Potato Croquettes. — To each cup of mashed potatoes add % 
teaspoon celery seed, a few grains cayenne, a few drops of onion 
juice and 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley. Mix ingredients thoroly. 
Shape into desired forms, roll in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat 
until brown. Meat may be enclosed in center of croquette. One- 
fourth cup of grated cheese may be added to each cup of potato. 

Creamed Potatoes. — Dice cold boiled potatoes. Prepare a white 
sauce of the desired consistency, add salt and pepper. Turn the po- 
tatoes into this, and with as little stirring as possible heat potatoes thru. 

Escalloped Potatoes. — Put alternate layers of sliced hard cooked 
eggs and cold boiled potatoes in a greased baking dish. Cover each 
layer with white sauce, put buttered crumbs on top and bake until 
browned. 



13 

Potatoes Au Gratin. — Put a layer of diced cold boiled potatoes 
in a baking dish. Sprinkle with grated cheese and diced pimentos. 
Cover with white sauce. Repeat until dish is full. Cover with but- 
tered crumbs, if desired, and bake until well browned. 



FRESH AND DRIED FRUITS 

Dried Apple Cobbler. — 
\]/i c. dried apples i t. cinnamon or nutmeg 

y 2 c. sugar 

Wash dried apples very carefully, soak 6 hours, or over night. 
Cook slowly in same water until tender. Add sugar and place in bak- 
ing dish. Sprinkle more sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg over top. 
Cover with the crust made as directed below, and bake until brown 
in a moderate oven. Apricots, prunes or peaches may be substituted 
for apples. 

Crust for Cobbler. — 
i c. flour iy 2 T. fat 

1/3 c. milk or water Yt. t. salt 

2 t. baking powder " 

Mix dry ingredients with the fat. Add the milk or water. 

Rice and Apricot Pudding. — 

1 c. rice 2 T. fat 

1 t. salt j4 lb. dried apricots 

3/2 c. boiling water j4 c. sugar 

Wash apricots and soak over night in sufficient cold water to 
cover them. Cook in same water in double boiler until soft and add 
sugar. Let them stand some time in the sweetened juice. Put a 
layer of cooked rice in buttered baking dish, then add layer of apri- 
cots. Repeat until dish is full, having rice on top. Dot with fat. Re- 
serve 1 cup of juice for sauce. Pour remaining juice on pudding until 
it may be seen thru top layer, using a little water if necessary. Bake 
about 15 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with a sauce made of 
apricot juice. 

Rhubarb Pudding. — 
4 c. rhubarb 4 or 5 slices bread, 

1 c. sugar buttered 



14 

Wash the rhubarb and cut into i-inch lengths, but do not peel it. 
Cut the slices of bread into cubes, mix lightly with the rhubarb and 
sugar and bake in a buttered baking dish about 20 minutes. The pan 
should be covered during the first 10 minutes. 

Prune Pie. — 
y 2 lb. prunes 1 T. flour 

1 t. lemon juice 1/3 c. sugar 

Pie crust 

Wash prunes and soak over night in enough water to cover. Cook 
until soft in same water. Remove stones and cut in quarters. Add 
lemon juice and sugar to prunes. Boil down the liquor to 13^ table- 
spoons. Line a pie plate with pie paste, fill with prunes. Pour over 
liquor and dredge with flour. Put on upper crust and bake in 
moderate oven. 

Prune Pudding. — 

1 c. cooked prunes % t. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar 1 1/3 c. boiling water 

1 T. lemon juice 1/3 c. cornstarch 

Add sugar, cinnamon and boiling water to cooked prunes. Mix 
cornstarch with enough cold water to pour easily and add to hot 
prune mixture, stirring constantly. Cook directly over fire until thick, 
then place over hot water. Add lemon juice and continue to cook for 
20 minutes. Stiffly beaten whites of one or two eggs may be folded 
in if desired. Serve cold with cream. 

Fruit Whip. — Use any fruit, which may or may not be a left- 
over. Put the fruit thru the strainer. With each &gg white, beaten 
stiff, blend y 2 cup of the fruit pulp and 2 or more tablespoons of 
sugar. To fruit having little flavor, lemon juice may be added. 
Fruit whip may be served plain, with fruit juice, soft custard or 
cream, or it may be poured into a buttered baking dish set in a pan 
of water and baked slowly until firm. 

Prune Whip. — 
1/3 lb. prunes }4 c. sugar 

2 whites of eggs x / 2 T. lemon juice 

Clean and soak the prunes. Cook them till tender. Remove 
stones and rub thru a strainer. Add the sugar and cook 5 minutes, 
or until like marmalade. Beat the egg whites stiff and fold in the 



15 

cold prune pulp. Add lemon juice. Pour into buttered baking dish 
set in a pan of water. Bake slowly until firm. Serve with soft 
custard made with the yolks of eggs. 

Fruit Croquettes. — 

4 c. stale bread crumbs 4 T. sugar 

y 2 c. cleaned currants or any leftover fruit 
A little nutmeg and vanilla 
3 beaten eggs to moisten the crumbs 

Form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg, then in dried 
crumbs. Fry. Drain on clean manila paper. Serve hot with a sweet 
sauce. 

Rhubarb Conserve. — Wash and cut the stalks of rhubarb into 
i-inch lengths. To each cup of rhubarb add % cup of sugar, stir 
constantly and cook quickly until of the consistency of jam. Add 
}4 cup of chopped nut meats to 1 cup of conserve and pour at once 
into hot glasses. To prevent scorching, it may be necessary to start 
the cooking over an asbestos mat. The conserve thickens on cooling 
therefore, it is best to test the consistency by removing a small por- 
tion to a saucer. 

Fruit Whip. — 
y 2 box gelatin Juice 1 lemon 

Sugar to taste 2 c. fruit juice 

]/i c. cold water 

Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve over hot water. Strain 
into this the fruit juice and add sugar. Set aside until partly jellied. 
Then whip with Dover egg beater until it becomes white and frothy. 



GELATIN 
Fruit Jelly. — 

2y 2 T. granulated gelatin y 2 c. fruit juice (lemon, 

y> cold water orange and lemon, 

2.y 2 c. hot water cherries, etc. ) 
1 c. sugar 

Soak the gelatin in cold water until soft. Make a sirup by boil- 
ing the hot water and sugar, remove from fire and add the soaked 
gelatin. When the mixture is partly cool, add the fruit juice and 
pour into a mold, which has been wet with cold water. Chill until 



i6 

firm and serve with or without cream. To remove from mold, place 
for an instant in hot water, then turn out on dish. 

Apricot Jelly. — 

1/3 lb. dried apricots Juice 1 lemon 

2 c. cold water 1 T. granulated gelatin, 
1 c. sugar soaked in % c. cold water 

Pick over and wash the apricots. Soak in the cold water several 
hours and then cook in the same water until soft. Rub thru a sieve, 
add the sugar and enough water to make 2 y 2 cups. Boil 1 minute, 
remove from fire, add the soaked gelatin and when partly cool, the 
lemon juice. Pour into a mold which has been wet with cold water. 
Chill, serve with or without cream. 

Prunes or peaches may be substituted for the apricots. 



LEGUMES 
Split Pea Loaf. — 
4 c. cooked split peas 1 beaten egg 

2 c. bread crumbs 1 t. minced onion 

1 T. minced parsley, celery, Salt and pepper to taste 

or other flavoring as de- 
sired 

Mix all the ingredients together.. If too soft to hold its shape, 
add more bread crumbs. If too dry, add milk, water or another egg. 
Form into loaf. Brown in oven. 

Boiled Beans and Tomatoes. — 

3 c. cooked navy beans 2 T. drippings 

1 c. canned tomatoes 1 T. minced onion 

1 T. minced parsley or celery Salt and pepper to taste 



f desired 



Add tomatoes to beans and boil J / 2 hour. Cook onions and other 
seasonings in the drippings, add to the beans. 

Bean Polenta. — 
4 c. cooked white beans Y\ t. mustard 

ty 2 T. molasses % t. pepper 

2 t. vinegar 

Drain the water from cold boiled beans, mash them fine, and mix 



i7 

with the other ingredients. Form the mixture into cakes and brown 
on both sides in hot greased pan. 

Bean Loaf. — 
2 c cooked beans put thru i stalk celery or y 2 t. 

food chopper celery seed 

2 c. soft bread crumbs 4 T. bacon fat 

yi c. chopped onion 2 T. flour 

l / 2 c. water 

Melt 2 tablespoons of fat in a frying pan, add the bread crumbs, 
stirring well until mixed with fat, and add to the ground beans. Cook 
onion in remaining 2 tablespoons of fat, and add flour and water and 
boil. Add to mixture and make into a loaf. More bread crumbs may 
be needed. Bake until nicely browned. Thin slices of bacon placed 
over top of loaf while baking are an addition. May be served with 
tomato sauce or bacon gravy. 

Baked Beans. — Soak 4 cups of beans over night in cold water. 
In the morning add fresh, cold water and cook slowly until the skins 
begin to burst. Pour off water and put beans into jar. Bury in beans 
24 pound of fat salt pork. To 1 cup of boiling water add 1 table- 
spoon of salt, 1 tablespoon of molasses, 3 tablespoons of sugar and 
pour over beans. Add enough more boiling water to cover beans and 
add more if needed during cooking. Cover the bean jar and bake 
slowly for from 6 to 8 hours. Mustard may be added if the flavor is 
desired, and less sugar may be used. 

Dried Pea Soup. — 

1 c. dried peas 3 T. fat 

2 qts. cold water 2 T. flour 
y 2 onion 1^2 t. salt 

l /& t. pepper Small piece fat salt pork 

Soak peas several hours or over night, drain, add water, pork 
and onion. Simmer several hours until soft and run thru colander 
or sieve. Bind with butter and flour. Add salt, pepper and milk to 
give desired consistency. 

Jungle Stew. — 

iy 2 c. kidney beans 1 onion 

y 2 c. macaroni or rice 4 T. drippings 

1 c. tomatoes Seasoning to taste 



i8 

Wash and soak beans over night. Cook until tender. Brown 
sliced onions in frying pan with drippings, add to stew with tomatoes, 
seasoning and the macaroni, broken into bits. Cook until macaroni 
is well done. 

Bean Muffins. — 

2 eggs well beaten 1/3 T. fat, melted 

1 c. cold boiled bean pulp 1 t. salt 

1 c. milk 2 c. flour 

2 T. baking powder 

Combine the ingredients in the order in which they are given. 
Bake the muffins in greased muffin pans for 20 or 25 minutes. 

Bean Souffle. — 

2 c. boiled bean pulp 1 t. onion juice 

2 eggs 2 T. chopped parsley 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and add to them the other ingredients. 
Fold in the well beaten whites of eggs. Heap mixture lightly in a 
baking dish. Set baking dish in a pan of water and bake in a slow 
oven for 20 minutes or until it sets. Serve at once. 



MEAT EXTENDERS 

Cottage Pie. — Cover the bottom of a greased baking dish with 
mashed potatoes. Add a thick layer of cold roast beef, chopped or 
cut into small pieces, seasoned with salt and pepper and onion juice, 
and moisten with some of the gravy. Cover with another layer of 
mashed potatoes. Bake until dish is heated thru and potatoes browned 
on top. 

Minced Meat on Toast. — Chop or grind cold meat, heat with 
some of the gravy, season with celery salt or onion juice. Serve on 
toast, or thin slices of hot corn bread. 

Escalloped Meat. — Into a baking dish put alternate layers of 
macaroni or rice and chopped or ground meat. Pour tomato sauce 
or gravy over each layer. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
dish is heated thru and crumbs brown. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat. — Line a buttered mold with cooked 
rice, fill center with chopped cold meat, highly seasoned with salt, 
pepper, cayenne, celery salt, onion juice, and lemon juice, and 
moistened with stock or gravy. Cover meat with rice and then cover 



19 

whole dish and steam from 30 to 45 minutes. Serve on a platter sur- 
rounded with sauce. 

Browned Hash. — Mix together equal parts of chopped meat and 
chopped cold boiled potatoes. Moisten slightly with gravy or stock. 
Season and place in heated frying pan containing a little fat. Press 
compactly into one-half of the pan. Heat slowly until brown. Turn 
on a platter and serve with sauce. 

Baked Croquettes. — 
3 c. chopped meat 1 t. onion juice 

3 c. bread crumbs 1 t. salt 

2 c. thick white sauce— 2 T. Pepper to taste 

fat, 2 T. flour,, 1 c. liquid 

Mix cooked meat with bread crumbs, add sauce, onion juice and 
seasonings. Bake in a baking dish. 

Hungarian Go ulash. — Slice a peeled onion and cook until brown 
in drippings. These may or may not be removed when brown. Then 
add about 1 % pounds of lean, uncooked beef, cut into i-inch cubes 
and stir until brown. Put into a baking dish or casserole, sprinkle 
with flour and add about a pint of stock or boiling water, ]/ 2 teaspoon 
of paprika, and salt to taste. Cover closely and cook slowly. More 
fat may be added to that in the frying pan and potato balls browned 
in it and added to the meat when it is about half done, or the potatoes 
may be placed on top the meat and cooked until tended. More onion 
may be added if desired. The gravy may be thickened, or cream may 
be added before serving, if desired. 

Chicken Pie. — Dress, clean and cut up a chicken. Cover with 
boiling water, then reduce heat and cook slowly until tender. Re- 
move from bones. Reduce stock to about 2 pints. Thicken 4 cups 
of stock with flour and fat blended together. Pour as much of this 
over the chicken as is needed, using the remainder for gravy. Place 
the mixture in baking dish. Drop the batter from spoon on top. Bake 
until the crust is done. 

Crust for Chicken Pie. — 
2/2 c flour (scant) 2 T. shortening 

2 t baking powder 1 c. milk (sweet) 

1 egg * *■ salt 

This makes a thick batter, 



20 

Brown Stew. — Cut lean beef into cubes — neck beef will be 
found quite satisfactory for this. Season each piece, dredge thoroly 
with flour and brown well on all sides in a frying pan, using a little 
suet to prevent sticking and to give satisfactory fat. Add sufficient 
hot water to cover meat and when this has boiled up once, turn into 
a double boiler and cook for 3 hours. If desired, 1 hour before the 
stew is finished, any vegetables liked may be added, cutting these into 
cubes. (Exception — potatoes require less time for cooking). If 
gravy seems thin, pour off and thicken. 

Corned Beef with Vegetables. — 

2 lbs. brisket of corn beef l / 2 lb. turnips 
l / 2 lb. cabbage 1 lb. carrots 
y 2 lb. rutabaga 1 onion 

Wipe the meat, cover with cold water and bring slowly to the 
boiling point. After boiling 5 minutes, remove the scum and con- 
tinue cooking just below the boiling point for about 3 hours. When 
the meat is tender, remove it and cook the vegetables in the water. 
Cut these in pieces of uniform size and cook them until tender. If 
small, the carrots may be cut in halves; if large, in quarters, and 
other vegetables in similar size. Cabbage should be added about 10 
minutes later than the others. Serve the meat on a large platter sur- 
rounded by the vegetables. Almost any other vegetables, beets, peas, 
etc., may be used instead of part of those named. 

Mock Cutlets. — 

3 c. chopped meat 3 c. cold boiled rice 
Salt Pepper 

Meat stock or milk 1 small onion, chopped 

Mix all together. Shape like cutlets, roll in egg and crumbs and 
fry in deep fat. 

Bacon Puffs. — The bacon or salt pork that is boiled with vege- 
tables is allowed to cool and become firm. It is sliced thin, dipped 
in batter and browned in hot fat. "* 

It may be noted that no meat from young animals, such as veal, 
lamb or young chickens is included in the meat-extender dishes. If 
young animals were all grozvn to maturity the meat supply zvould be 
greatly increased. 



21 



FISH — CANNED AND LEFTOVER 

Escallop ed Fish. — 

I l /i c. cold cooked fish 

Y% c. (scant y 2 c.) buttered bread crumbs 

i c. white sauce 

A small slice of onion or a sprig of parsley may be cooked in 
sauce and removed before combining with the fish. Put alternate 
layers of fish and white sauce in buttered baking dish. Cover with 
buttered crumbs and brown in oven. 

Creamed Salmon. — To the amount of salmon to be used add an 
equal amount of white sauce. Serve on toast. 

Baked Salmon and Peas. — 

i can salmon (2c.) 1 can peas 

Make a sauce of 2 tablespoons of fat, 2 tablespoons of flour and 
2 cups of milk, or milk and water, or milk with the liquid drained 
from the peas. Add peas and salmon to the sauce. Put in a baking 
dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake 20 minutes. 

Salmon Loaf. — 

1 lb. can salmon, shredded 1 c. mashed potatoes or 
fine cooked rice 

2 T. melted fat 1 or 2 c. soft" stale bread 

y 2 c. milk crumbs 

Few drops lemon juice Salt 

Cayenne 1 T. minced parsley 

Soak crumbs in the milk. Remove oil, bones and skin from fish. 
To it add the melted fat, seasoning and potatoes or rice. Add the 
soaked crumbs. Put into a well buttered mold. Steam 1 hour. 
Serve with white sauce, egg sauce, or tomato sauce. 

Salmon Sauce. — 

2 T. fat Salt 

2 T. flour Cayenne 

1 c. (?) milk Strained liquor from salmon 

Make same as white sauce and add strained liquor from salmon. 
Amount of milk varies with amount of salmon liquor added. (Any 
canned fish may be used instead of salmon). 



22 



Toasted Sardines. — Split sardines and remove bone. Place on 
buttered toast and heat thru. Any small canned fish may be used. 

Egg Sauce. — (To use with fish). To each cupful of white sauce 
add two hard cooked eggs, chopped coarsely. 



SALT FISH 

Salt Fish (mackerel or others). — Wash fish in plenty of cold 
water and allow it to soak several hours in cold water. Place in cold 
water and gradually heat, cooking below boiling point until fish is 
tender. Season well with butter, or an egg sauce may be used. 

Creamed Codfish. — 
Y\ c. codfish in small pieces i c. white sauce 

i hard cooked egg 

Soak codfish, cook until salt is sufficiently removed and fish is 
tender. To white sauce add fish and egg cut into dice. Parsley makes 
a pleasant addition. 

Codfish Balls. — 
34 c. salted cod l / 2 c. potatoes 

Yi, egg Salt if needed 

Pepper 

Wash the fish in cold water and break into small pieces. Wash 
and pare potatoes and cut into pieces. Cook the fish and potatoes 
together in boiling water until potatoes are soft. Drain and shake over 
the fire until dry, mash with a fork, add the beaten egg and pepper. 
Add more salt if needed and beat until light. Take up by spoonfuls, 
mold slightly and cook in deep fat, or, shape into croquettes, roll in 
egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Codfish with Rice and Tomatoes. — Soak i cup of codfish over 
night. Brown in fat, add i cup of cooked rice, one small onion, 
chopped fine, and i cup of cooked tomatoes. Cook until codfish is 
tender. Add seasonings. 

Escalloped Rice with Codfish. — 
]/ 2 c. uncooked rice Va c. finely shredded codfish, 

14c. grated cheese which has been parboiled 

Buttered crumbs 10 minutes 

1 c. white sauce 



23 

Cover bottom of buttered baking dish with boiled rice, then add 
codfish and cover with white sauce. Sprinkle top with grated cheese 
and buttered bread crumbs. Bake in moderate oven until crumbs are 
brown. 

Salt Codfish Hash. — 

i x /z c. salt codfish 

3 c. chopped potatoes or i c. rice or i c. broken macaroni 

Pick salt cod in small pieces. Cook potatoes (rice or macaroni) 
and fish in boiling water for 30 minutes and drain. Put into a hot 
greased frying pan until well browned on under side. Smoked fish 
may be substituted for codfish if desired. 

Cornmeal Fish Balls. — 
2 c. cold, white cornmeal 1 egg 

mush 1 T. fat 

1 c. shredded codfish 

Pick over the codfish and soak it to remove salt, if necessary. 
Combine the ingredients and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. Drain 
on porous paper. These codfish balls compare very favorably in taste 
with those made with potato and are more easily and quickly pre- 
pared. 

Fish Chowder. — 

V/t. oz. (a iy 2 -'mcb. cube) fat % lb. (about 16) soda 

salt pork crackers 

1 T. chopped onion 3 c. diced potatoes 

1 qt. milk V 2 lb, salt codfish or fresh fish 

If salt fish is used, break in small pieces and soak in warm water 
till soft and some of the salt is removed. Cut pork' into small pieces 
and cook till a delicate brown, adding the onions during the last part 
of the cooking. To the pork and onions add the potatoes. Cover 
with water and boil till tender. Add the milk and fish and reheat. 
Add the crackers just before serving. 

CHEESE 
Cheese Custard. — 
iy 2 c. cottage cheese 2 T. milk > 

y 2 c. sugar 3 eggs 

1 t. melted fat Lemon or vanilla flavoring 

4* 



24 

Press the cheese thru a colander or mash to a paste; beat the 
eggs until light ; add them with all the other ingredients to the cheese ; 
mix until smooth. Place in a baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven about 30 minutes. This is so high in nutritive value that it 
should form the main dish for a meal. 

English Monkey. — 
4 c. bread crumbs 34 c. cheese 

2 c. milk . Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the bread crumbs and milk. If the crumbs are not well 
moistened, add water. When hot, add cheese cut in small pieces. Re- 
move from fire and stir until cheese is melted. May be served on 
toast. 

Cheese Fondue. — 

3 T. finely divided cheese 1/3 c. scalded milk 
1/3 c. stale bread crumbs 1 t. butter 

1 egg Salt 

Mix all the ingredients but the egg. Add yolk, beaten until lemon 
colored. Fold in the stiffly beaten white. Pour into a buttered bak- 
ing dish and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. If bread crumbs 
are stale, more milk will be required. 

Welsh Rarebit No. 1. — 

2 T. flour 1 egg yolk if desired 

1 c. milk Cheese (?) 

2 T. butter 

Prepare a white sauce with flour, butter and milk. Add cheese 
(finely divided) to taste, and egg yolk. Remove from fire. 

Welsh Rarebit No. 2. — 
l / 2 c. milk or cream 2 T. butter 

Y^ c. cheese (finely divided) 2 eggs 

Salt and pepper 

Melt butter, add cheese and thoroly mix. Add milk slowly and 
when hot, the beaten eggs. Cook until thick and creamy. Be care- 
ful not to overcook. (If overcooked the cheese will become stringy 
or the egg may separate). Serve on wafers or toast. 



25 

Cheese Souffle. — 

2 T. butter 3 t. flour 

3 eggs 34 c - grated or finely cut 
Salt and cayenne cheese 

y 2 c. scalded milk 

Make white sauce of butter, flour and milk. Then add salt, 
cayenne and cheese. Remove from fire, add well beaten yolks of eggs 
and whites beaten until stiff and dry. Pour into a buttered baking 
dish set in a pan of water and bake in a moderate oven about 20 
minutes. 

French Rarebit. — Fill a baking dish with alternate layers of 
bread that has been sliced, spread with butter, and cut into small 
squares, and cheese, either grated or ground. Moisten this thoroly 
with a mixture made in the following proportions : 1 cup of milk, 
one egg, salt, cayenne pepper and mustard. Bake until thoroly heated 
thru and browned on top. 

Tomato-Cheese Toast. — Sprinkle grated cheese on toast and put 
in oven to melt cheese. Pour over it tomato sauce. 

Cheese Sauce. — Add grated or chopped cheese to white sauce in 
the proportion of about 4 tablespoons of cheese to 1 cup of white 
sauce. 

RICE 
Boiled Rice. — 
1 c. rice ij4 t. salt 

3 c. boiling water 

Wash rice by placing in a strainer and allowing the water from 
the faucet to run thru until it is clean. Add rice to boiling water and 
boil for 25 minutes. 

Save the water that is drained off after cooking and use as basis 
for cream soup or for starching clothes. 

Escalloped Rice. — Put a layer of cooked rice in a greased bak- 
ing dish, cover with a layer of grated cheese and white sauce. Add 
other layers of rice, cheese and white sauce until dish is filled. Use 
enough sauce thoroly to moisten rice. Cover with buttered Crumbs 
and brown in oven. 

Rice Croquettes No. 1. — 
iy 2 c. cooked rice 3 T. sugar 

Grated nutmeg 

Shape into balls, roll in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 



26 

Rice Croquettees No. 2. — 

1 c. cooked rice y> T. fat 

3 T. grated cheese 

Shape into balls, roll in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Rice and Dates. — 

Mix cooked rice and stewed, seeded dates and serve with cream, 
or serve molded rice with dates on top. 

Rice with Tomato Sauce. — Prepare tomato sauce, using propor- 
tion of 2 tablespoons of fat and 2 tablespoons of flour to 1 cup of 
tomato juice. Fill baking dish with layers of rice and sauce. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. 

Spanish Rice. — 

2 T. fat 1 c. uncooked rice 

Fry rice until brown. Add 1 pint water, one small onion, (chopped 
fine), salt and pepper and 1 pint tomatoes. Cook for 30 minutes. 
Peppers are an agreeable addition. 

Rice Pudding No. 1. — 
2 c. milk 3 T. sugar 

Y\ c. seeded raisins, dates or 3 T. rice 

other fruit }i t. salt 

Mix ingredients in a baking dish and cook in a very slow oven 
for from 3 to 5 hours. It will be necessary to stir occasionally to 
prevent rice and raisins from settling to bottom of dish. If raisins 
are not used, some flavoring should be added. 

Rice Pudding No. 2. — 

Y A c. rice 3 T. sugar 

2 c. milk Y* egg 

% t. salt 

Cook rice in milk until it is very soft. Add other ingredients 
and turn into a baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven until set. 

Rice and Cheese Rarebit. — 

J4 c. rice 2 T. flour 

y A c. cheese ^/z t. salt 

iy 2 c. milk J4 t. pepper 



27 

Boil rice in plenty of water. When cooked tender, add milk and 
the flour mixed with Y\ cup of water. Allow this to boil, add salt 
and pepper, and when it again reaches boiling point, remove from 
fire and add cheese chopped fine. Stir cheese thru the hot mixture 
until it melts. Serve on toast. 

Rice Griddle Cakes. — 

24 c. boiled rice 2 T. drippings 

2 c. flour 5 t. baking powder 
i^c. liquid 1 t. salt 

3 T. sugar 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add rice to the liquid ingredients. An 
egg may be added. Combine with the dry ingredients and beat well. 
Cook by tablespoons, the same as other griddle cakes. 

Boiled Rice with Stewed Cherries. — To 3 cups of steamed rice 
add 2 cups of stewed cherries. Add sugar to taste. Serve hot. 

Turkish Pilaf. — 

3 c. rice 2 c. meat chopped and cooked 
\y 2 c. tomatoes 1^2 c. water 

Mix rice with tomatoes and water, place alternate layer of the 
mixture of chopped meat in baking dish, cover with bread crumbs, 
bake until brown in moderate oven. 

Olla Podrida. — 
3 c. boiled rice 1^ c. fried onions 

2 c. cooked tomatoes 24 c - g rat ed cheese 

Cover the bottom of baking dish with rice. Add alternate layers 
of onions, cheese, tomatoes and rice. Cover with crumbs and bake 
20 minutes. 

Tuna Fish or Salmon Salad with Rice. — Use equal amounts of 
fish and rice. Season with salt, pepper and vinegar. Stir in plenty 
of salad dressing and set away for a while in a cool place. When 
ready to serve add a little crisp celery, finely cut, or chopped nastur- 
tium stems. Serve on lettuce leaves. Two or three small strips of 
pimento arranged on the top adds to its attractiveness. 

Egg Salad with Rice. — Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on plates. 
In the center of each, place a generous spoonful of cold boiled rice 
and on this a spoonful of salad dressing. Arrange on top of this, 
slices of hard cooked egg. 



28 



CORNSTARCH 
Fruit Pudding. — 
l / 2 c. fruit juice Y c. water 

2 or 3 cloves Sugar to taste 

Nuts or fruit 2 T. cornstarch 

y 8 t. salt 

Heat water, juice and salt. When boiling, stir in the cornstarch 
which has been mixed with a little cold water. Stir, until it thickens, 
over the direct flame. Add cloves and sugar. Cook y hour in a 
double boiler. Remove cloves. Add nuts or fruit and pour into 
molds. Chill and serve plain with fruit or cream. 

Cornstarch Pudding. — 

2 c. milk 2 egg whites 
4 T. cornstarch y 2 t. vanilla 

y 8 t. salt 2 T. sugar 

Mix dry ingredients and dilute with a little cold milk. Scald the 
rest of the milk and stir into this mixture. Cook to boiling point and 
stir constantly until mixture thickens and then cook in double boiler 
for 20 minutes. Remove from fire and fold in the beaten whites and 
flavoring. Pour into cups. Chill and serve with soft custard. 

Caramel Pudding. — 

3 T. cornstarch y c. medium or dark 
y 2 c. boiling water brown sugar 

Mix cornstarch and sugar. Add boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Boil for 5 minutes. One-half cup of nut meats may be added. 



TAPIOCA 
Rhubarb Tapioca. — 
4 c. rhubarb Y c. pearl tapioca 

2 c. sugar 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water. Drain, add boiling 
water and cook until transparent. Add sugar, and rhubarb, peeled 
and cut into y>-'mch pieces, and bake until rhubarb is tender. Serve 
hot or cold with milk. 

Apple tapioca is made in the same way. 



29 

Fruit Tapioca. — Boil y 2 cup of minute tapioca in 3 cups of 
liquid (fruit juice and boiling water) until clear, adding more liquid 
if necessary. Then add sugar and fruit juice as desired. Cool and 
serve with cream. 

Jelly may be substituted for fruit juice. 

Fig Tapioca. — 
1/3 cup minute tapioca iy 2 c. water 

% lb. diced figs ^4 c. light brown sugar 

Speck of cinnamon 

Mix the tapioca, sugar, figs and water. Boil, then cook in double 
boiler 1 hour. Add l / 2 cup of nuts and y> teaspoon of vanilla. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. 

Chocolate Tapioca Pudding. — 

y c. pearl tapioca y 2 c. sugar 

3 c. scalded milk Pinch salt 

1 t. vanilla 1 sq. chocolate, grated 

Soak tapioca in cold water. Drain, add to hot milk. Mix sugar 
and chocolate and mix with milk. Cook until tapioca is transparent. 

Tapioca Au Gratin. — 

1 qt. water 1 c. tapioca 

1 onion, cut fine y c. milk or cream 

1 T. chopped pimento 1 T. fat 

Heat water to boiling point, then add the tapioca, stirring well. 
Cook all together 10 minutes. Add salt and paprika to taste. Turn 
into baking dish. Cover the top with grated cheese and put in oven 
until cheese is brown. Serve very hot. 

Caramel Pudding. — 

1 pt. boiling water 1 c. medium or dark brown 
1 egg sugar 

l / 2 t. fat % t. vanilla 

y 2 c. tapioca Pinch of salt 

While water is boiling, add salt, then tapioca. Cook in double 
boiler until clear. Add fat, to which, when melted, add sugar. Cook 
2 minutes. Remove from fire and allow to stand while beating egg 
very light. Add vanilla and beat in egg with fork. Serve Cold. 



3 o 



HOMINY 

Lye Hominy. — Select sound, white corn. To every gallon of 
corn use i tablespoon of concentrated lye. Cover the corn with water. 
Boil slowly until the skin comes off easily and the dark tips on the 
grains begin to come out. Wash thoroly. Let soak (preferably over 
night) in cold water; drain; return to the kettle and boil in plenty of 
water until tender; put in a stone jar and set in a cool place and it 
will keep for several days. It may be canned and kept as long as 
desired. 

Soda Hominy. — Cover the corn with water. Add i tablespoon 
of baking soda for each cup of corn. Boil till hulls are softened and 
may be removed easily. Drain off the soda water and wash in cold 
water. Rub between the hands to remove any hulls. Wash repeatedly 
till all hulls are gone. Add boiling water to the corn and boil until 
thoroly cooked. 

Creamed Hominy. — Reheat cold cooked hominy in hot white 
sauce. Parsley or a small amount of grated cheese may be added. 

Hominy Balls. — Shape cooked hominy into balls — mold with 
white sauce and season with cheese — or mold with tomato sauce. 
Roll in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Cold hominy may be mixed 
with egg, made into balls and cooked in deep fat. 

Hominy and Bacon. — Cut up several slices of bacon into small 
pieces. Fry until crisp and stir the hominy into this. Heat thru 
thoroly. 

MACARONI 

Macaroni should be broken in small pieces and added to boiling 
salted water. Cook 20 to 30 minutes until the starchy taste is gone. 
Drain. 

Macaroni with Oysters. — Put a layer of cooked macaroni in a 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of oysters, season with butter, salt 
and pepper. Add a layer of white sauce. Repeat until the dish is 
full. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown 
and the whole dish heated thru. 

Macaroni Italian Style. — Prepare a sauce, using 2 tablespoons 
of fat, 2 tablespoons of flour, and y 2 cup each of brown stock and 
tomato juice. Cook a slice of onion in it, then remove. Season with 
salt and paprika. Then add cooked macaroni and J /> cup of grated 
cheese. Sift with fork until sauce and cheese are thoroly mixed with 
macaroni and serve hot. 



3i 

Macaroni with Chicken (or other meat). — Cook a chicken until 
tender. Remove meat from bones and pick apart. Make a sauce of 
the chicken broth. Place alternate layers of chicken, cooked macaroni 
and sauce in a baking dish. Repeat until dish is full and pour a cup 
of cream over all. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until heated 
thru and crumbs are browned. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes and Peppers. — Put a layer of cooked 
macaroni in a greased baking dish, then a layer of sliced tomatoes. 
Sprinkle with chopped green peppers. Cover with a layer of thin 
tomato sauce. Repeat until the dish is full. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. — Prepare tomato sauce, using 2 
tablespoons of fat and 2 tablespoons of flour to 1 cup of tomato juice. 
Fill baking dish with layers of cooked macaroni and tomato sauce. 
Cover with crumbs and brown in oven. 



CORNMEAL 

Cornmeal Mush* — 

iy 2 cornmeal 6 c. boiling water 

2 t. salt 

Sift cornmeal slowly into boiling, salted water, stirring constantly 
to prevent it from lumping. Boil 10 minutes, then cook in double 
boiler or fireless cooker 3 to 5 hours. 

Polenta* — 
y$ c. cornmeal 24 fc salt 

3 c. water 1 T. grated cheese 

Boil ingredients, with the exception of cheese, and finish cooking 
in double boiler from 3 to 5 hours, or cook over a free flame for ^ 
hour. Add grated cheese ; pour into pans and, when cold, cut in squares 
and fry in deep fat. 

Scrapple. — 
24 c. cornmeal 1/3 lb. pork with bone 

Salt and pepper (shoulder, neck or ham 

shank) 



♦United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 565 
Cornmeal as a Food and Ways of Using It. 



32 

Cook pork in water until the meat can be easily removed from 
the bone. Remove meat. Boil down the broth to about a quart or 
add water to bring it up to this amount. Cook cornmeal in this. Add 
meat finely chopped, and seasonings. Pour into pans ; when cold, 
cut in slices and brown in hot fat. 

Meat and Cornmeal Croquettes. — 
i c. white cornmeal mush I c. chopped meat. 

Few drops onion juice Salt and pepper 

Combine the ingredients and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. 
White cornmeal may be very satisfactorily combined with any kind 
of cold meat to make croquettes. In general, cornmeal croquettes 
need not be egged and crumbed like ordinary croquettes, for the 
hardening of the cornmeal on the surface of the mixture forms the 
necessary crust. 

Southern Corn Bread. — 

2 c. cornmeal i t. salt 

1^2 c. thick sour milk i egg 

Y^ t. soda 3 t. melted drippings 

Beat egg in mixing bowl, add milk, sift in meal with soda and 
salt, and add melted fat. Beat quickly until well mixed, pour into 
hot well greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. Cut in squares 
and serve hot. Egg may be omitted. If sweetened corn bread is pre- 
ferred, use yellow corn meal and add 3 tablespoons of sugar. 

Rice and Cornmeal Muffins. — 
1 c. cooked rice 5 t. baking powder 

1 c. flour 1 % c. liquid 

1 t. salt 3 T. melted drippings 

1 c. cornmeal 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients together. Add rice to liquid 
ingredients and combine the two mixtures. Beat and pour into muffin 
pans and bake. 

Corn Bread. — 

1 c. cornmeal 1 egg 

y 2 t. salt 4 t. baking powder 

54 c. sugar 2/3 c. milk 

1 c. white flour T A c. melted fat 



33 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten egg, melted fat and liquid. Mix 
thoroly. Bake in a greased pan in a moderate oven. 

Roast Pork with Batter Pudding. — A dish corresponding to the 
Yorkshire pudding, which is frequently served with roast beef, can 
be made out of cornmeal to serve with roast pork. 

%. c. cornmeal y 2 t. salt 

i c. milk 2 eggs 

Mix the milk, cornmeal and salt and cook them about io minutes. 
After the mixture has cooled, add the eggs well beaten. Grease gem 
tins thoroly, allowing to each tin about i teaspoon of fat from the 
roast pork. Bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with the 
drippings of the pork. 

Cornmeal Mush with Fruit. — Cornmeal mush is often served 
with dried fruits, particularly with figs and dates. In preparing such 
fruit for use with mush it is usually necessary to soften it. This can 
be accomplished easily by washing the fruit and then heating it in 
a slow oven. As a^result of the heat the water remaining on the fruit 
is absorbed and the fruit softened and also dried on the surface. 

Buttermilk Cornmeal Mush* — Cornmeal cooked in buttermilk 
makes a dish that resembles cottage cheese in flavor. It may be eaten 
hot, but is especially palatable when served very cold with cream. For 
this purpose it is sometimes molded in cups. In making it, allow I 
part of cornmeal to 6 parts of buttermilk, and I teaspoon of salt to 
each cup of meal. 

Cornmeal Dumplings. — 
2 c. cornmeal Boiling water 

i t. salt Flour for dredging 

Mix the meal and salt. Pour boiling water over the meal and 
stir thoroly, using water enough to make a thick paste. Form por- 
tions of the paste into flat dumplings about 3 inches in diameter. 
Have ready a kettle of boiling water and drop the dumplings in care- 
fully, cover and cook 20 minutes. These dumplings are often cooked 
with turnips tops or other greens, with or without the addition of 
ham bone or a piece of fat pork. 

Ash Cake* — 

1 qt. cornmeal 1 T. lard or other shortening 

2 t. salt Boiling water 



34 

Scald the meal. Add the salt and shortening, and, when the 
mixture is cool, form it into oblong cakes, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Wrap the cakes in cabbage leaves, or place one cabbage leaf 
under the cakes and one over them, and cover them with hot ashes. 

Hoecake* — Hoecakes are made out of cornmeal, water and 
salt. They were originally baked before an open fire on a board which, 
for convenience, had a long handle attached to it. At present they 
are cooked slowly and on both sides on a well greased griddle. 

Corn Dodger* — The corn dodger is like the hoecake except it 
usually contains a small amount of fat. The meal is scalded and when 
cool is formed into cakes and cooked in a hot oven. 

Crackling Bread* — 
i qt. cornmeal 2 t. salt 

i pt. cracklings Boiling water 

Mix the cornmeal and salt; pour over this mixture enough boil- 
ing water to moisten, but not enough to make a mush. When the 
meal has cooled, work the cracklings into it with the fingers. Form 
the dough into cakes about 4 inches long, 2 inches wide, and 1 inch 
thick ; bake for 30 minutes. This bread, because of its large percentage 
of fat, is eaten without butter, and should be served very hot. 

"Cracklings" like "scraps" is a name given to the crisp, brown 
meat tissue left after lard is "tried out." Cracklings consist of con- 
nective tissue with a large amount of fat adhering to it. 

Spider Corn Bread. — * 

\y 2 c. cornmeal 1 t. salt 

2 c. sour milk 2 eggs 

1 t. soda 2 T. fat 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add the eggs well beaten and the milk. 
Place the fat in a frying pan, melt it, and grease the pan well. Heat 
the pan and turn in the mixture. Place in a hot oven and cook 20 
minutes. 

Zuni Indian Bread. — * 

1 c. white cornmeal 1 t. salt 

1 c. yellow cornmeal l /% t. cayenne 

1 c. water 1 c. chopped suet 

Mix all well together; form into rolls about 5 inches long; roll 
in greased paper ; and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. Serve hot. 



35 

The habit among the Indians was to roll these cakes in the husks 
of corn, a method which is sometimes followed by campers. 

Corn Muffins with Dates. — * 

i c. white cornmeal i c. wheat flour 

2 T. brown sugar 4 t. baking powder 

1 t. salt 1 egg 

2 T. fat y 2 c. dates cut into small 
1^4 c. milk pieces 

Cook together the first five ingredients for 10 minutes. When cool, 
add the egg, the dates, and the flour sifted with the baking powder. 
Beat thoroly and bake in muffin pans in a quick oven, or bake in a 
loaf. The bread will keep in good condition longer if the dates are 
cooked with the cornmeal and other ingredients in the double boiler. 

Custard Corn Cake. — 
2 eggs 2 c. sweet milk 

Y\ c. sugar 1 2/3 c. cornmeal 

1 t. soda 1/3 c. wheat flour 

1 t. salt 2 T. fat 

1 c. sour milk 

Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroly. Sift the flour, soda, 
and salt together and mix with the meal. Mix all the ingredients but 
the fat. Melt the fat in a deep pan, using plenty on the sides. Pour 
in the batter. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes. When cooked there should 
be a layer of custard on top of the cake or small bits of custard dis- 
tributed thru it. 

Cornmeal and Hominy Bread. — 
1 c. cooked hominy 1 c. white cornmeal 

1 c. milk 2 eggs 

1 T. melted fat iy 2 t. salt 

Mix the ingredients and bake 30 minutes in a mderate oven. 

Apple Corn Bread. — 

2 c. white cornmeal 1 t. baking powder 
2 T. sugar 1 2/3 c. milk 

y 2 t. salt 3 tart apples pared and sliced 

Mix the dry ingredients, add milk, and beat thoroly. Add the 



36 

apples. Pour into a well buttered shallow pan and bake 30 minutes 
in hot oven. 

Spoon Bread. — 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs 
Cornmeal Salt 

Heat milk. When hot, stir in cornmeal and cook to a smooth 
mush that will pour rather than drop from the spoon. Take from 
fire, add salt and yolks of eggs, one at a time, stirring constantly. 
Then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs and bake in a moderate 
oven l / 2 hour. Serve at once in baking dish. 

Fruit Spoon Bread. — Add to the spoon bread, as made in the 
preceding recipe, any fruit that is in season. Cooked dried prunes, 
apricots or peaches may be used. 

Cornmeal Pancakes. — 

2 c. flour V« c - su S ar 

y 2 c. corn meal l}4 c. boiling water 

iy> T. baking powder 1% c. milk 

\y 2 t. salt 1 tgg 

2 T. fat 

Add meal to boiling water and boil 5 minutes. Turn into bowl, 
add milk and remaining dry ingredients mixed and sifted, then the 
egg well beaten and the fat. Cook on a griddle. 

Cornmeal and Wheat Waffles. — 
iy 2 c. water 1% T. baking powder 

y 2 c. cornmeal i}4 t. salt 

iy 2 c. milk Yolks 2 eggs 

3 c. flour Whites 2 eggs 
3 T. sugar 2 T. melted fat 

Cook the meal in boiling water 20 minutes. Add milk, dry in- 
gredients mixed and sifted, yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, fat and whites 
of eggs beaten stiff. Cook on a greased waffle iron. 

Cornmeal and Rice Waffles. — 

y 2 c. cornmeal 1 T. melted fat 

y 2 c. flour y t. soda 

1 c. boiled rice I t. salt 

2 eggs well beaten 1 c. sour milk 



37 

Sift together the flour, soda and salt. Add the other ingredients 
and beat thoroly. 

Fruit Gems. — 

i c. cornmeal y 2 c. raisins 

iy 2 c. milk y 2 c. currant 

i t. salt i t. baking powder 

Cook the meal and salt in the milk for a few minutes. When 
cool add the baking powder and beat thoroly. Add the fruit and bake 
in well greased muffin tins. 

Cornmeal and Fig Pudding. — 
i c. cornmeal i c. finely chopped figs or 

i c. molasses any other dried fruit 

6 c. milk (or 4 of milk and 2 eggs 
2 of cream) 1 t. salt 

Cook the cornmeal with 4 cups of the milk, add the figs and salt. 
When the mixture is cool, add the eggs well beaten. Pour into a 
buttered pudding dish and bake in a moderate oven for 3 or more 
hours. When partly cooked add the remainder of the milk without 
stirring the pudding. 

Indian Meal Doughnuts. — 

24 c. milk 24 c. sugar 

i l / 2 c. very fine white corn- 2 eggs well beaten 

meal 1 t. cinnamon 

1^4 c - wheat flour 2 t. baking powder 

Y^. c. fat 1 level t. salt 

Put milk and meal into a double boiler and heat together for about 
10 minutes. Add the fat and sugar to the meal. Sift together the 
wheat flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. Add these and the 
eggs to the meal. Roll out on floured board. Cut and cook in deep 
fat. 

Indian Pudding. — 
1 qt. milk l /> t. salt 

1 c. cornmeal 1 t. cinnamon 

24 c. currants or raisins y> c. flour 

1 c. chopped suet 1 t. baking powder 

Y 3 c. molasses 



38 

Make a smooth mush with milk and cornmeal. Then add cur- 
rants, suet, and sifted dry ingredients. Mix thoroly. Turn into 
greased molds and steam 3 hours. 

BREAD 
Potato Bread. — 
y 2 lb. uncooked potato 2y> c. flour 

1 t. salt % cake compressed yeast 

1 t. sugar 

Boil the potatoes in skins. Drain, dry, peel and mash. Add the 
salt and sugar. Blend the yeast in 1 / 3 cup of the water which was 
drained from the potatoes. Beat this into the potato, then knead in 
the flour to make a stiff dough. Form into a loaf and let rise till 
thoroly light. Bake from 50 minutes to 1 hour. 

Rice Bread. — 
y 2 c. rice cooked in 1/2 c. it. sugar 

water %. cake compressed yeast 

1 t. salt softened in 2 T. water 

1 t. fat 
Flour 

Mix all ingredients thoroly, adding sufficient flour to make a stiff 
dough. Form into a loaf and bake when well risen. 

Oatmeal Bread. — 

1 c. water i l / 2 c. rolled oats 

1 t. salt iy 2 t. sugar 

1/4 to iy 2 c. flour %. cake compressed yeast 

Blend the yeast with 2 tablespoons of the water. Heat the re- 
mainder of the water to boiling and pour over the oatmeal, salt and 
sugar, scalding thoroly. This may be done in a double- boiler and kept 
hot for 5 to 10 minutes. Cool to lukewarm, stir in the yeast, then 
add flour to make a fairly stiff dough. Make into a loaf at once and 
when double 'in bulk bake thoroly, at least 1 hour. Bread may be 
made using a larger amount of rolled oats and a smaller amount of 
flour, but naturally, the greater the proportion of rolled oats used the 
closer the texture of the bread will be. 

Generally speaking, the most satisfactory results are obtained 
by using these various materials in the making of quick breads such 
as muffins, biscuits, etc., and a few directions are given: 



39 

Oatmeal Muffins. — 
2 c. rolled oats i c. flour 

24 t; salt i T. molasses 

i T. .fat i c. milk 

2 t. baking powder 

Bake in muffin pans. 

Oatmeal Hoecake. — 
4 c. rolled oats 4 T. cornmeal 

i t. salt 

Scald with 2 cups of boiling water, stirring over the fire for a 
moment until the mass thickens to a mush. When cool enough to 
handle, form into cakes by rolling into balls about the size of an egg, 
then flattening these out to about ]/i inch in thickness. By first dip- 
ping the hands in water, the cakes may be made without much trouble 
from sticking. Place the cakes in a hot, well greased pan and con- 
tinue the heating either in the oven or on top of the stove, until the 
under sides begin to brown. Turn them over, place pan in medium hot 
oven and bake for 45 minutes. 

Southern Corn Pone. — 
i/ 2 c. white cornmeal 1 c. boiling water 

2 T. milk 1 t. salt 

Add the salt to the meal and scald with the boiling water, stirring 
well. Add enough milk to hold the ingredients together. When cool 
enough to handle, form into cakes by rolling into balls in the hands 
and flattening these down to about ]/ 2 inch in thickness. Have ready 
a pan well greased, place over the fire and add the pones, dipping a 
little of the shortening over the tops of the pones. Leave the pan 
over the fire until the bread is browning slightly and then set in a hot 
oven and finish baking for from 30 to 45 minutes on the upper grate. 

Bread Crumb Croquettes, No. 1. — 

4 c. crumbs from stale bread 
Yz c. any leftover vegetable or meat 
Seasoning 

Milk, water or stock to moisten the crumbs 
Form into cylinder-shaped croquettes, dip in egg then in dried 
crumbs. Fry. Drain on clean manila paper, Serve hot. 



40 

Bread Crumb Croquettes, No. 2. — See Fruit Croquettes. 

Bread Crumb Griddle Cakes. — 
i l / 2 c. fine stale bread crumbs y 2 t. salt 

J / 2 c. scalded milk 2 T. melted fat 

2 eggs y 2 c. flour 

4 t. baking powder 

Add milk and fat to crumbs and allow them to soak until soft. 
Add beaten eggs, then the flour which is sifted with the salt and bak- 
ing powder. 

GRAHAM FLOUR 

Steamed Graham Pudding. — 
34 c. butter y 2 c. molasses 

x / 2 t. soda y 2 c. milk 

1 egg 1 c. chopped raisins, 

1 t. salt dates or figs 

i i y 2 c. graham flour 

Mix butter, molasses, milk and beaten eggs and the dry in- 
gredients. Turn into a buttered mold and steam 2 y 2 hours. 

Graham Biscuits. — 
iy 2 c. graham flour 1 c. liquid 

\y 2 c. white flour . 3 T. fat 

\y 2 t. salt 6 t. baking powder 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Mix the lard evenly thru by 
cutting with two knives, or by rubbing lightly with the fingers. Add 
the liquid, mixing with a knife. Turn the mixture- on floured bread 
board. Roll or pat to y 2 inch thickness. Cut out biscuits and bake 
15 to 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Graham Mush. — 
24 c. graham flour 2 c. boiling water, salted 

Gradually stir the flour into the water. Boil continuously, stirring 
often, for 30 or 40 minues, or boil 10 minutes and finish cooking in 
the double boiler for two or three hours. 

Graham Pudding. — To graham mush, prepared as directed 
above, from }i c. graham flour, add about; 



4i 

V 2 c. sugar i doz. dates or 6 figs or 2 

y A c. nut meats doz. raisins, chopped 

Serve hot, with or without cream or milk, or pour into molds and 
serve cold. 

Hot Water Gingerbread. — 

y 2 c. sugar 2 t. soda 

1 c. molasses ^A c. flour 

y 2 c. fat 2 eggs 

1 c. boiling water 1 t cinnamon 

1 t. ginger 1 t. cloves 

Pinch salt 

Sift flour with the soda and spices. Add the melted fat to the 
water and molasses. Combine with the sugar. Add the flour mixture, 
and lastly the well beaten eggs. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Spice Cake Without Eggs. — ' 
y 4 c. fat Va c sugar 

2/3 c. sour milk 1/3 *• s °da 

y. t. cinnamon Va t. allspice 

y A t. nutmeg l x A c. flour 

y 2 c. raisins 

Cream the fat. Add the sugar gradually. Add alternately the 
milk and flour which has been sifted with the soda and the spices. 
Add the cut raisins which have been floured. Bake in a moderate 
oven. Sour cream may be substituted for the sour milk and the 
other fat omitted. Sweet milk may be substituted for the sour milk 
and 2y 2 teaspoons of baking powder used instead of the soda. 

Apple Sauce Cake. — 

y c. fat 2 c. flour 

1 c. raisins, chopped and 1 c. sugar 

floured J A *■ nutmeg 

iy t. cinnamon 1 c. unsweetened apples 

1 t. soda Pinch salt 

Cream the fat and add the sugar. Mix well. Add raisins and 
apples and then the flour which is sifted with the soda, salt and 
spices. 



42 



BUCKWHEAT 

Buckwheat Short Cake. — 

i c. milk i c. buckwheat flour 

2 t. baking powder % c. white flour 

i t. salt i t. fat 

Sift the baking powder with the flour. Add salt and milk. Beat 
to a smooth batter. Add the melted fat. Pour the mixture into a 
pan, having it about ]/ 2 inch thick. Bake 25 minutes in a rather 
quick oven. Cut into squares and serve hot. This batter may be 
baked in muffin pans. 

SOYBEANS 

Soybeans have been used as human food in China for hundreds 
of years. Their value is now beginning to be appreciated in this 
country. 

The composition of soybeans is approximately as follows : pro- 
tein, 36.5 percent; fat, 17.5 percent; carbohydrate, including fiber, 
30.0 percent. Fully 80 percent of these are in digestible form, giv- 
ing a food value not approached by any ordinary food material 
excepting cheese. The composition of soybean meal is practically the 
same as that of the beans themselves, unless a part of the oil has been 
extracted in the process of manufacture. Where this has been done 
the fat content is, of course, lowered. 

Soybean milk is prepared by mixing 1 part meal with 10 parts 
boiling water, allowing the mixture to boil up several times. It may 
then be strained thru a cheesecloth, or merely allowed to stand until 
the coarser particles of meal settle, when the liquid can be poured 
off. This milk is found to have about the following composition : 
protein, 3.7 percent; fat, 2.0 percent; carbohydrate, 1.8 percent; 
mineral salts, o . 5 percent. 

Dry soybeans possess a strong, characteristic flavor which must 
be gotten rid of before they can be served satisfactorily. In order 
to do this, it is best to soak them over night, using a large amount 
of hot water. In the morning they should be well rinsed, and put to 
cook in water to which baking soda has been added (about 1 teaspoon 
of soda to each cup of beans). This water may be poured off after 
40 minutes boiling and fresh, hot water added. Four or five hours 
of cooking will usually be found sufficient, after which the beans may 
be seasoned in a variety of ways. Several sauces are suggested. 



43 

Tomato Sauce: — 
I T. fat i c. tomato juice 

i T. flour Salt and pepper 

Brown the flour in the fat, add the tomato and seasonings. Let 
boil well, and pour over the beans. Serve hot. This amount is suf- 
ficient for 2 cups of beans. 

Sour Sauce: — 
i T. fat i c. liquor in which beans • 

i T. flour were cooked 

Salt and pepper 

Prepare same as tomato sauce. Add 2 tablespoons chopped 
pickle. 

A gravy made with meat stock gives a good flavor. In all 
cases the results are better if the beans are thoroly heated in the sauce 
before serving. 

If baked beans are wanted, the pork and other seasonings may 
be added when the water is changed, and the cooking finished in the 
oven. 

The green soybeans are excellent, altho the pods are too tough 
to be eaten. They should be boiled in the pods, however, since they 
can then be shelled much more easily than when raw. 

Soybean meal will be found to be a useful substitute for wheat 
flour in bread, biscuits and muffins. One part meal to two parts 
wheat flour gives a well flavored bread of good texture. A still larger 
proportion of the meal can be used in biscuits, muffins and other quick- 
breads. 

Soybean-meal soup is especially satisfactory to serve in an emer- 
gency, because of the short time required in its preparation. For 
each person to be served use 

1 T. soybean meal 
^ T. butter or drippings 
I c. water (hot) 
Salt and pepper 

Melt the fat in a sauce pan, blend the meal with it, then add the 
hot water gradually, stirring the mixture to a smooth paste. Let boil 
for a few minutes. A little onion juice or celery salt may be added. 
Soybean milk may be substituted for cow's milk in the making 
of bread and biscuits, and in the preparation of custards, cornstarch 



44 

puddings, white sauces and gravies. It is also satisfactory when 
eaten with bread as ordinary "bread and milk." 

The curd, or cheese-like substance which forms in the soy- 
bean milk on treating with an acid, may be used in a variety of ways. 
On account of its high protein content, it seems best to serve it in 
combination with a starchy material in much the same way as salmon 
and crackers are combined in escalloped dishes, or in croquettes. 



