BZ7 




It viJi J. - ■..' ■ '! ^ ' 







LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 

OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 








o> 








^ 


CO g 


f" 


OS 




MO 


CO m 


«JO 


ro^^o 


i 


-P^^^^s 






= 






n 


istor 

II 

3 5 


3 


•f 


^^^^-< 


r. 


m o 




00 g 


>< 






, =—-3 






I Cornell University 
^ Library 



The original of tinis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003576828 



Eighth Series, No. 13 February 24, 1917 



Emtl^HB Olnlbg^ lulbttn 




A^ OUTLINE 

ON 

THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 

BY 

ANNA BARROWS and BERTHA E. SHAPLEIGH 

ASSISTED BY 

ANNE D. BLITZ 
School of Practical Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Teahnlcal Education Bullvtin. No. 38 
PRICE. 25 CENTS 

N.eut Impression 



Published by 

JSrarti^ra QlulUge, Qldttmbia llniarreitii 

525 West 120th Street 
New York City 



TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETINS 

No. 1. Economic Pnnetlon of AVomaii. Edward T. Devlne, Ph.D., Pro- 
fessor of Social Economy, Columbia University. 16 pp., 10 o. 
No. 3. The Feeding of Youugr Children. Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., 

Assistant Professor of Nutrition, Teachers College. 10 pp., 

10 C. 
No, 4. Hints on Clothing. Professor Mary Schenck Woolman. 8 pp., 

10 c. 
No. S. Quantitative Aspects of Nutrition. Henry C. Sherman, Ph.D., 

Head of Department of Nutrition and Food Economics, School 

of Practical Arts. 15 pp.. 10c. 
i No. 7. Determination of Unen and Cotton. Dr. Herzog. Translated by 
^ Ellen Beers McGowan, B.S. 24 HI., 2 color prints. 25 c. 

No. 8, Syllabus on Household Mannsement. Mary Louise Furst, A. B., 

Lecturer In Household Management, Teachers College. 10 o. 
No. 0. The Gin of To-morrow — ^Vhat the School TVIll Do For Her. 

Benjamin R. Andrews, Ph.D. 8 pp., 10 c. 
No. 10. Fundamental Values In Industrial Education. Frederick Q. 

Bonser, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial Education, 

Teachers College. Reprinted with Dean Russell's School and 

Industrial Life. 30 c. 
No. 11. Annotated List of Text and Reference Boohs for Tralnlngr 

Schools for Nurses. 64 pp., 25 c. 
No. 16. Schools of the Art Industries — A New Type of School In the 

Public School System. Frederick H. Sykes, Ph.D., formerly 

Director of Practical Arts, Teachers College. 12 pp., 5 c. 
No. IT. Constructive Art-Teachint;. Arthur W. Dow, Professor of Fine 

Arts, Teachers College. 12 pp., 5 c. 
No. IS. Canned Foods: Fruits and Vcgretnbles. Florence R. Corbett, 

formerly Instructor in Household Arts Education, Teachers 

College. 16 pp., 10 c. . 

No. 18. Physical and Chemical Tests for the Housewife. Sadie B. Van- < 

derbilt, Instructor in Household Chemistry, Teachers College. ' 

16 pp., 10 c. L '' 

No. 21. Outline of u Course in Kiementary Clothing and HandTrork. 

Ruth Penfleld Sill, Instructor in Household Arts, Teachers 

College. 16 pp., 10 c. 1 

No. 22. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery 

Processes. May B. Van Arsdale, Aast. Professor of House- 
hold Arts, Teachers College. 16 pp., 10 c. 
No. 23. Food for School Boys and Girls. Mary Swartz Rose, Ph.D., Asst. 

Professor of Nutrition, Teachers College. 16 pp., 10 o. 
No. 24. A Year's AVork In Industrial Arts, Third Grade, Speyer School. 

22 pp., 15 c. 
No. 25. Annotated List of Books Relating to Household Arts. 25 c. 
No. 26. A Survey of Your Household FlnanccB. Benjamin R. Andrews. 

16 pp., 10 e. 
No. 27. Some Food Facts. Mary Swartz Rose. 8 pp., 6 c. 
No. 28. History of Cookery. Barrows, Shaplelgh, and Blitz. 36 pp., 25 c. 
No. 20. Tentative Course of Study in Household Arts, Seventh and 

Flghth Grades. Speyer School. 32 pp., 20 c 
No. SO. Economical Diet and Cookery in Time of Emergency. Professors 

Rose and Winchell and Miss Shapleigh, Teachers College. 

12 pp., 15 c. 
No. 31. Simple Lessons on the Physical Care of Children. Dr. Josephine 

Hemenway Kenyon. 20 c. 
No. 32. Lessons in Home Nursing. Professor Isabel M. Stewart, Teachers 

College. 12 pp., 15 c. 
No. 33. How to Flan Meals In Time of AVar, with Economical Menus and 

Directions for Marketing. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, 

Teachers College. 16 pp., 20 c. 
No. 34. Ninety Tested, Palatable and Economical Recipes for the House- 
wife. Professor May B. Van Arsdale, Teachers College. 

20 pp. 30 c. 

Numbers omitted are out of d>rint. 
PUBLISHED BY 
BUREAU OF PUBLICATIONS 

Teachers College, Columbia University 

NEW YORK CITY 

IM.6.17 



Eighth Series. No. 13 FAmary 24. 1917 



^mti^nB Qlnlbg^ lulUttn 




AN OUTLINE 

ON 

THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 

BY 

ANNA BARROWS and BERTHA E. SHAPLEIGH 

ASSISTED BY 

ANNE D. BLITZ 
School of Practical Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University 

Teohnleal Education Bulletin. No. 28 
PRICE. 2S CENTS 

New Impression 



Published by 

(ipartfrra (Halle^. Columbia Hnivrrettg 

525 West 120th Street 
New York City 



content's 

Food Processes 3 

Fire 4 

Tools and Utensils S 

Prehistoric Times 5 

Dates in Ancient History v 9 

V 

Ancient Times Tr. lo 

Egypt 10 

Judea II 

Assyria and Babylonia I2 

Persia I2 

Greece I3 

Rome i6 

Bibliography i6 

Dates in Medieval History i7 

MtDiEVAL Times i8 

The Crusades I9 

France, Spain, and Italy ip 

England to isoo 20 

Bibliography 2i 

Dates in Modern History 23 

Modern Times 24 

France 25 

England 25 

America 26 

China 26 

India 27 

Characteristic Dishes 27 

Bibliography 27 

Christmas 33 

Suggested Topics for Class Development 35 

General Bibliography 36 



Copyright, 1915, by Teachers College, Columhia University. 



HISTORY OF COOKERY 

* 

Why, in view of all that is yet unknown regarding foods and 
their transformation under the influence of heat, bacteria, and in 
digestive processes, should we spend any time in turning backward 
to follow the devious ways through which man has already 
travelled in securing and preparing his food ? 

By such study, we may gain respect for the art of cookery 
itself when we discover that 

"To cookery we owe well-ordered states, 
Assembling men in dear society." 

When we see how slow have been past generations in dis- 
covery and invention in this direction, we may be more patient 
with lack of progress at the present time in adopting new 
methods to fit food for the highest needs of the human body, or in 
finding harmonies in combinations of foods and flavors. 

Teachers must recognize that many women are not attracted 
to the subject of dietetics because of the science and mathematics 
so prominent in its study. Such women may often be reached 
first through the history and literature, and even the fol! [ore. of 
foods. The libraries have many treasures awaiting us, for all 
through the literature and the art of the ages runs the subject 
of human food. 

In such a survey as is outlined in these pages, the historical 
method of presentation has, been chosen, since in this way we can 
see the subject of food production and preparation in its proper 
relation to human development. The outline here given breaks 
roughly into four parts. The special references for each sect'on 
are given at its close, while at the end will be found a general 
bibliography, together with suggested topics for individual inves- 
tigation, for papers, or for class development. 

FOOD PROCESSES 

I. Food processes are four in number. 

1. Securing. 

2. Preserving. 

3. Preparing. 

4. Consuming. 

3 



4 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

II. All of these processes are dependent on stage of advance in civil- 
ization. 

III. All pass through successive stages, as do all other processes, from 

extremely simple to extremely complex. 

IV. There is no possibility of hard-and-fast chronology, as vre find 

extremely complex stage of civilization existing side by side with, 
and exerting strong influence upon, extremely simple stage, e.g., 
Rome and Britain at time of Caesars; America and Philippines. 

V. Civilization proceeds in successive waves. The older cultures, each 
in turn, pass through all periods of development from savagery 
through barbarism to civilization; from simplicity and frugality 
to luxury, extravagance, then to decay, and to a merging with a 
neighboring civilization in early stages of development, e.g., 
Egypt and Persia ; Greece and Rome ; Roman Empire and Franks. 

VI. Question of food is inextricably bound with four other factors in 
civilization : 

1. Climate and geographic limitations. 

2. Shelter. 

3. Production and control of fire. 

4. Utensils. 

FIRE 

I. Discovery. 

1. Legendary. India — ^Vedas; Phoenicia; Greece — Prometheus, 

Hephaestus, Zeus; Persia; Rome — ^Vulcan, Vesta; Scandi- 
navia; Aztecs; American Indians. 

2. Natural sources. 

a. Lightning setting fire to vegetation. 

b. Sparks struck in working flints. 

II. Control. 

1. Preservation of fire kindled naturally. 

2. Artificial kindling. 

a. Friction of two pieces of dry wood; fire-drill later develop- 

ment of this process. 

b. Striking of flints to produce spark; quartz and pyrites used 

in certain localities. 

c. Burning glass — much later development. 

III. Fire-Places. 

1. Open fire on ground. 

2. Rude fire-place of stones piled together. 

3. Dug-out pit lined with stones. 

4. Fire-places in caves ; near opening, with outlet for smoke and 

draft. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 5 

5. Artificial containers, as early forms of braziers; examples in 

Egyptian paintings, in Persian reliefs, descriptions in Homeric 
poems ; used in China and Orient to-day. 

6. Artificial structure, of stones fitted carefully together, with chim- 

ney for draft. All architecture begins with shelter of fire 
from wind and rain. 



TOOLS AND UTENSILS 

All tools imifeions of forms found in nature — as bowl, from hollow 
stone; knife from flint splinter; spoon from shell; forked instrument 
from forked stick, or human hand, or claw of bird; hammer from human 
fist. 

I. Containers : Hollowed stone, natural or artificial ; hollowed wood, 
stumps, ends of logs ; gourds for dippers ; shells for ladles or 
spoons; skin bottles and jars; nets and baskets of fibre and reed; 
baskets daubed with clay for fire-proofing; clay pottery; metal 
bowls and vessels. 

II. Breakers : Rude natural core of stone, fitting hand, used as mallet ; 
grooved to fit handle of wood or stone; chipped on edge for 
cutting and scraping; knife with handle; spear; arrow-head. 

III. Weapons : Mallet ; knife ; adze ; spear and shield ; bow and arrow. 

IV. Domestic Tools : Knife ; scraper ; hand-plow ; mortar and pestle ; 

rolling mill ; quern or rotary mill ; washboard and rubber ; spoons 
of shell; forks. Bone and ivory needles and pins, combs, hair- 
pins, files, small jars, ornaments of all kinds. 



PREHISTORIC TIMES 

I. Prehistoric Man. 

I. Remains of man found in "River-drift" period in England and on 
continent indicate no use of tools, nor knowledge of fire. 
Earlier stage of development than found in any known sav- 
ages in historic times. 

' 2. Early Stone- Age Man (Paleolithic). To this age belong 
"kitchen-middens" of Denmark, Scandinavia, many cave- 
remains of France. Spain, and England. Name derived from 
rude stone implements, 
a; Fire known and under partial control — could be preserved 

when naturally kindled, 
b. Food. Mainly vegetable; animals occasionally slain included 
shell-fish, insects, etc. Most food eaten raw. No domes- 
ticated animals save dog; no cultivated plants. Food 
supply wholly that of nature. 



O TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

c. Industries. Fishing, some hunting, making of utensils of stone 
and bone ; rude flaked flints chipped to shape, never ground 
or polished; some spirited drawings as decorations on 
walls of cave-shelters and on implements. 

3. Late Stone- Age Man (Neolithic). To this period belong the 

numerous burial monuments, houses, barrows, graves, mono- 
liths, so common throughout the world. The remains of the 
pile-dwellings, or lake-dwellings, of Switzerland, Ireland, etc., 
probably belong to this period. 

a. Fire under pretty complete control. Can be artificially 

kindled as well as controlled. Used not only for warmth, 
but for cooking food. 

b. Food, both vegetable and animal, prepared by cooking; 

obtained by hunting, fishing, stock-breeding and tillage. 
Nearly all food-animals domesticated, many grains, vege- 
tables and fruits cultivated. 

c. Industries : Spinning, weaving, mining, agriculture, stock- 

raising, making of polished stone implements of many 
types, making of pottery, stone-cutting on large scale. 

4. Bronze or Metal-Age Man. This period grows out of the pre- 

ceding so gradually that everywhere there is evidence of 
overlapping. With the Iron-Age, which is the outgrowth of 
the Bronze-Age, we come to historic times. This was the 
period of development of the Homeric heroes. 

II. Stages of Civilization., 

There are three recognized steps in development from rudest sav- 
agery to civilization ; these are : 

1. Savagery. 

a. Lowest stage: food consists of fruit, roots, nuts; since there 

is no knowledge of fire or use of artificially produced 
tools, it is all eaten raw. 

b. Middle stage : in addition to above, food is shellfish, including 

crabs, molluscs; sea slugs; fish; wild animals caught in 
chase. Fire is known and used. Weapons are invented. 

c. Higher stage : invention of bow and arrow makes animal food 

staple; hunting normal occupation. Control of food pro- 
duction, storage of surplus in settled places, make supply 
less uncertain. Industries are making of wooden and 
stone vessels, hand-weaving of rough fibres for fishing 
nets, reed baskets for cookery, but as yet no making of 
pottery. 

2. Barbarism. Marked from preceding by invention of pottery. 

Discovery at first probably accidental, through action of heat 
on mud or clay daubed on outside of basket in cooking, or 
through coating food with clay (as fish or bird) before 
baking in ashes. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 7 

a. Early stage: use of pottery, domestication of animals and 

first cultivation of cereals. 

b. Middle stage : cultivation and irrigation of plants and cereals, 

taming and breeding of animals for both flesh and milk; 
life of herdsman the common one. Use of bronze metal 
for tools and for ornament. 
e. Higher stage : begins with melting of iron-ore. Iron plow, 
drawn by animals, revolutionizes production of vegetable 
foods ; ship-building widens intercourse and equalizes dis- 
tribution of food. This is the stage reached by the 
Egyptians at the time of their earliest records, by the 
Greeks in the Homeric legends, by the Germans as recorded 
by Tacitus, and by the Incas at the time of the conquest 
of Peru. From this stage barbarism merges into civil- 
ization. 

III. Food. Stages of Cookery. 

1. Stages of preparation of cereals. 

a. Eaten raw and whole. 

b. Ground into meal, eaten raw or dried in sun. 

c. Parched before open blaze. 

d. Roasted or baked in pits with heated stones. 

e. As mush or gruel. 

f. As thin griddle cakes baked on hot surface. 

g. Boiled in a pot (after invention of pottery), at first by 

dropping red hot stones into the water, later by placing 
pot itself directly over flame. 

2. Stages of preparation of meats. Little meat eaten until use of 

fire is well established. 

a. Carcass thrown directly on fire. 

b. Meat roasted on stick over flame of fire; from this spit was 

developed. 

c. Buried in leaves in embers. 

d. Daubed in mud or clay, buried in embers. 

e. Boiled in skin of animal made into rude vessel, or simply 

used to line cavity in rock or earth. Cooking by means 
of stones heated red-hot and dropped into water. 

f. Pot of soapstone or steatite, which could be propped on 

smaller stones and have fire directly beneath. From this, 
legs of pots were developed. 

g. Pottery vessels, set directly on fire. 

3. Food supply of uncivilized man. 

a. Vegetable: corn, rice, cereals, maize, acorns, nuts, dates, figs, 
cocoanuts, lichens, wild celery, service berry, olive, grape, 
apple, cherry, squash and potato in America, sunflower 
seed, chili. 



O TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

b. Animal : fish, both fresh and salt ; all shellfish, oysters and 
mussels especially; birds, both game and fowl; animals, 
domesticated and wild. From these, milk products, espec- 
ially cheese and butter. 

IV. Folklore. 

1. Legends of fire in every mythology: Persian, Hindoo, Chinese, 

Greek, Scandinavian, American Indian. 

2. Taboos of foods and ways of preparation, usually embodied in 

religious practices, i.e.. Mosaic code ; Code of Manu ; Greek 
rites. 

3. Traditions of divine gifts of foods r Asia, rice ; Greece, olive ; 

America, maize ; etc. 

References : Aesop's Fables ; Apocrypha ; Arabian Nights Entertain- 
ment; Confucius; Herodotus; Koran; Mythology of Greeks, Romans, 
Scandinavians; Talmud; Vedas. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Abbott, Chas. C Primitive Industry, t88i 

AvEBURY, Lord Prehistoric Times, 1913 (7th Ed.) 

Barclay, Isabella The Way the World Went Then, 1898 

Boas, Franz The Mind of Primitive Man 

Dopp, Katherine The Early Cave-Man, 1904 

Dopp, Katherine Later Cave-Men, igo6 

Dopp, Katherine .» The Tree-Dwellers, 1903 

Encyclopedia Britannica Articles Archeology, Cookery, Fire, Food 

Engels, Frederick Origin of the Family, Chap I, 1902 

JoLY, Nicholas Man Before Metals, 1883 

ICeane, A. H Ethnology, 1896 

Keller, Dr. Ferdinand. .The Lake Dwellers, 2 vols., plates in Vol. II, 1878 

LiNEHAN, Ray S Habitations of Man, 1894 

Mason, O. T Origin of Inventions, 1895 

Mason, O. T Woman's Share in Primitive Culture, 1894 

MuNRo Ancient Scottish Lake-Dwellers 

MuNRO Lake-Dwellings of Europe 

Reports American Bureau of Ethnology, 1895 

Starr, Frederick Some First Steps in Human Progress 

Taylor, Isaac Origin of the Aryans, 1829 

Tyler, E. B Anthropology, 1904 

Tyler, E. B Primitive Culture, Vol. I, 1888 

Wood-Martin Lake-Dwellers of Ireland 



CO V 

be fl v^ri 

■2 .s iaS « 

§ Mo •»< "i So ja i 

o u a ° B W ? 5 



•^a "S| Vigo's |a 

N « N rft 






1^ 


U O 


s 


^-o 


&& 


•&^ 


■^1 


sis 


a-a a. 

c3s£ 


Mt3 





8 ^ I ^ "I < S 

1 li § I Is :. h 

o 

O O COOOO OO\H00 

^ m HHOOW Ol^s^OM 

bH » "C «M "<) 

S^ ^ CU ti c\ V *~* >^ 

H S % "§-2 " S--3 "-o 

WW Sg S-SiS. .3 S§| .2E 

1— I Qj u2 Cja m ►■ 'I SJS t! S I, 



W ^ 

I— I 

u 



< 



"^ ^ CO 






J3 


i^ 






^ 


V 


O 


u 

a 


£ 


s^ 


aT3 u 


1 


II 



O " CO -S O §2 



d •M 



o w rt »Ti D 543 13 

o o o »n H 

O o tn m -"a- oo I^ 

• 0\\0 oo 00(»3 Jo 



o M B -S 3 O. 

3 « g S -C^ ^li S» 

(Ho O [i- <" SPh H U Pl, u 



E! 



(K 



lO TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

ANCIENT TIMES 

5000 B.C. to 476 A.D. 

L Knowledge of food sources and processes gained through: 

1. Contemporary records, in literature, sculpture, and pictures. 

2. Information as to climate, soil, and geographical conditions. 

3. Observation of conditions in those localities to-day, especially in 
• oriental countries, where life has changed but little with the 

passing centuries. 

II. Part food plays in literature of past. 

1. Casual references in poems, plays, histories. 

2. Religious and legal restrictions and prescriptions of usages; as in 

Mosaic law. 

3. Literature of food itself, as in Greek and Roman times, poems 

celebrating rare foods or great feasts. 

III. Records preserved in history almost wholly those of ruling or noble 
class. 

1. In pictorial representation, monuments, etc., because only the 

we^ilthy could afford these. 

2. In literature, because only the great were thought worthy of cele- 

bration and representation. 

3. Foods of common people known only by contemptuous reference, 

or mentioned for sake of contrast, i.e., account of swine-herd's, 
fare in Odyssey. 

EGYPT 

I. Natural Resources. 

1. Vegetable. 

a. Grain, especially wheat, barley, etc. 

b. Lentils, onions, melons, hops, cabbage, leeks, cucumbers, garlic. 

c. Fruits, especially grapes — monkeys used to gather them; date 

palm, cocoanut palm. 

2. Animal. 

a. Fish of all kinds — cats trained to catch and retrieve them. 

b. Wild animals, antelope, deer, boar, crocodile. 

c. Domesticated and railk-giving animals, beeves, goats, sheep, 

pigs. 

d. Birds and fowl; Egyptians were the first people to hatch 

eggs artificially; cats used to retrieve game birds. 

II. Importation by Trade. 

a. Fruits. 

b. Gums and spices. 

III. Cookery. 

I. Methods shown by wall paintings in tombs. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 1 1 

a. Process of bread making — grinding grain, kneading dough in 

trough with feet, forming into cakes or loaves, baking 
before brazier, storing of finished product. Public 
bakeries. 

b. Brewing. 

c. Plowing. 

d. Harvesting. 

e. Milking. 

f . Salting and preserving game. 

g. Preparing entire meal — ^plucking geese, cutting and preparing 

joints of veal and mutton, roasting goose on spit over 
flame in fire-pot, stewing meat, carving. 

h. Preparing banquet hall. 

i. Serving banquet, while wrestlers, tumblers, fencers and 
musicians entertain guests. 

2. Utensils for preparation and cookery of food preserved to-day. 

3. Elaborate accounts of Egyptian fare in Bible and in Greek writ- 

ings — Herodotus. 

a. Method of preparing veal. 

b. Richness of country's food supply — "flesh pots of Eg3rpt." 

c. Contrast with poor fare in desert. 

4. Egyptian cookery to-day. 

a. Food supply much the same. 

b. Methods of preparation traditional. 

JUDEA. 
Cookery of Bible. 

1. In the beginning, largely vegetable. 

2. Abel's offering of lamb. Gen. IV : 4. 

3. Leviticus — clean and unclean foods — laws. 

4. Foods mentioned in Bible. 

a. Abraham offers unleavened bread to the angel. 

b. Esau — mess of pottage — lentils, very savory — lentils partaken 

of in time of mourning. 

c. Isaac gives blessing to Jacob for kid dressed as venison — 

indicating that venison was highly regarded. 

d. Milk and honey — Land of Canaan — delicacies — "seethed milk," 

butter — song of Deborah, "butter in a lordly dish." 

e. Bread — leavened and unleavened; leaven dates from earliest 

use of meal, back to times of savagery — found among 
most primitive peoples. 

f. Locusts. 

g. Food of captivity in Egypt — 

(i) Corn (6) Garlic 

(2) Melons (7) Fish 



12 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 



(3) Cucumbers 


(8) Pork 


(4) Leeks 


(9) Veal (calf, tender and good) 


(S) Onions 


(10) Cabbage 


h. Wine — grapes. 




i. Olives — fruit of trees. 




j. Quail— Exodus. 




k. Pulse. 




1. Manna — lichen, still known 


1 as food in that locality. 


Feasts of Bible : 




a. Nebuchadnezzar. 




b. Belshazzar. 




c. Esther. 




d. Solomon. 





ASSYRIA AND BABYLONIA. 
I. Character of Countrv. 

1. Like Egypt, rich river valley, fertile soil, warm climate, great 

natural resources. 

2. Favored for commerce and intercourse with other nations, con- 

stant exchange of commodities, including foodstuffs; con- 
stant cultivation of new ways of using native materials. 

II. Natural Resources, and those gained by exchange. 

1. Vegetable. Much the same as Egypt; grains staple product; 

many fruits and vegetables. 

2. Animal. 

a. Fish and shell-fish. 

b. Wild game. 

c. Domesticated animals. 

III. Preparation. 

1. Very elaborate — mention of great feasts of Ahasuerus, of Nebu- 

chadnezzar, Daniel at Belshazzar's feast. 

2. Great diversity of service, shown by utensils of gold and silver, 

richly wrought and skillfully shaped — spoons and forks found 
in ruins. 

3. Legal enactments — ^no cooking on Sabbath, illegal to take medi- 

cine on that day; renting of land for market gardening, rent 
to be one-third of produce ; slave labor on farms, in vineyards. 

4. Pictures of hunting of deer, goat, lion, boar, many wild birds; 

of plowing and cultivating land; of care of vineyards and 
making of wine; of kitchen processes; of banqueting; pre- 
served in clay bricks and cylinders of Ninevah and Babylon. 

PERSIA. 

Rise of Persia contemporary with Greece. Conquered Babylonia, 
reigned as mistress of East till conquered in 5th century b. c. by Greece. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY I3 

I. Wonderfully fruitful country — reputed seat of Garden of Eden. 
Climate semi-tropical, many fruit-trees native to soil. 

II. Early history shows greatest moderation and simplicity of living. 

1. Food largely vegetable, fruits abounding, rice a staple. 

2. Flesh food of secondary importance in diet to milk and cheese, 

which form a large part of food of people. 

3. Preparation marked by simplicity, as shown both by records and 

by simplicity of utensils. Little variety in kinds of dishes 
and utensils, though there is elaborate ornamentation. 

4. Contrast with food-habits of Egypt and Babylonia, and their 

luxuries, shown in story of Ochus (Table Traits, p. 306). 

III. Later, Persian living gradually becomes more luxurious, as shown by 

1. Records of great feasts — as feast of Ahasuerus in Book of Esther. 

2. Remains of great banquet halls, as that of Darius at Persepolis, 

Cyrus at Susa. 

3. Sculptured records of table-scenes. 

IV. Influence of foreign trade upon food of Persia. 

1. Introduction of new foods. 

a. Melon from India. 

b. Plums and cherries from Africa. 

c. Spices and condiments from Arabia. 

2. More elaborate methods of cookery, by contact with highly 

developed Egyptian and Babylonian cookery. 

V. Persian luxury, unlike that of Greece, Rome, and barbarian Europe, 
consisted in skill of preparation and delicacy of flavor rather 
than in profusion of viands and magnificence of mere bulk. 

VI. With conquest by Greece, Persian wealth declines, civilization decays. 
Country to-day differs little in food-stuffs and food-preparation 
from Persia of 600 b. c. 

GREECE. 

I. Homeric Times. Stage of civilization, higher barbarism — life of 
men, husbandry, cattle-raising, fighting; life of women, care of 
household, spinning and weaving, care, storage and preparation of 
food. 
I. Flesh food. 

a. Cattle, sheep, goats, swine. 

b. Roasted on spits over flame of fire — mention of spits large 

enough to support carcass of an ox, turned by hand. 

c. Fat of animals and marrow of bones esteemed delicacies. 

d. Fish held in contempt, eaten only when nothing else was 

obtainable; fishing by nets, harpoons, hooks mentioned. 



14 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

e. Homeric heroes did their own cooking — skill of several in 
special fields mentioned. 

2. Vegetables and grains. 

a. Bread stuffs — barley, meal, and wheaten flour, baked into 

loaves, without leaven. 

b. Fruits — ^grapes, figs. 

3. Beverages. 

a. Wine only drink, mixed with water. 

b. Milk not esteemed — Polyphemus, tj'pe of savage, only user. 

c. Honey sometimes mixed with wine for sweetening. 

4. Butter unknown, cheese used freely, esteemed highly. 

5. Three meals in Homer : 

a. Breakfast. 

b. Dinner — hot meal, served in middle of day. 

c. Supper — light, simple repast. 

6. Feasts described at great length, with well-defined ceremonial 

observances : 

a. Feast at funeral of Patroclus. 

b. Provisioning of boat for Telemachus. 

c. Provisioning of raft by Calypso. 

d. Feast at home of Nestor. 

e. Feast at home of Menelaus. 

f. Feast at home of Alcinous. 

g. Feast at home of Odysseus, 
h. Meal at swineherd's hut. 

II. PoST-HoMERic Period, three main centres : 

1. Sparta, noted for frugality. 

a. Public table for men; common contributions to general 

stock; levy of certain amount per diem. 

b. Light meat diet; staples, barley meal, cheese, black broth, 

dried figs, and dates; moderate use of wine. 

2. Athens, frugal also — allowance of about fifty cents a day for 

jEour adults considered extravagant. 

a. Meat, usually obtained from sacrifices or public festivities. 

Whole meat diet regarded as a hardship. Sausage and 
fish esteemed. 

b. Vegetables, cereals, fruits cultivated extensively — ^beans and 

peas, spinach, cabbage, lettuce, radishes, onions, leeks, 
turnips; pease porridge staple in diet. Figs, olives, raisin 
and wine grapes, apples, pears, quinces, pomegranates; 
nuts — walnuts, chestnuts, almonds; grain — wheat, millet, 
barley, spelt ; leavened bread used freely. Athenians 
prided themselves on fancy baking, sesame and poppy 
seeds used as flavor. Standard weights of loaves. Little 
cake used. Eggs sparingly used. Honey for sweetening 
entirely. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 1$ 

c. Wine only beverage, many varieties. Always mixed with 

water, usually "half and half." Over-indulgence con- 
demned. 

d. Cheese and oil substitutes for butter in cooking; smoked and 

dried fish used as relish; oyster^ considered delicacy. 

Word "ostracise" derived from this. 
3. Ionia, home of luxurious livers. Sybaris noted for its refine- 
ments and love of dainty cookery. Sumptuary laws enacted 
to check these extravagances. Indulgence in wine freer than 
in Sparta and Athens. 

III. Later Period — height of Athenian supremacy. Marked by great 
luxury and profusion of food. 

1. Seven sages of kitchen, each famed for production of some one 

dish or sauce. 

2. 470 B.C. Cooking society awarded prize to one who produced 

most excellent dish. 

3. Serious study of dietetics as well as art of cookery. 

4. Rarity of food and difficulty of securing it more considered than 

flavor of article itself; period of importation from other and 
distant countries. 

5. Influence of Egypt and Babylonia. Song-birds, game-birds, 

domestic fowl highly esteemed, also fish, especially deep-sea 
fish. 

6. Cultivation of fruit-trees — study of horticulture, specialization in 

grafting fruits. Many kinds of wine made; delicate flavor 
and heady quality appreciated. 

IV. Greek Service at Table. 

1. Homeric times. 

a. Rude board on trestles. 

b. Thronos, or chair with back and arms, for important persons, 

stools for common people. 

c. Many vessels, especially for drink, but no knives or forks at 

table. Meat cooked so that it fell to pieces, or else cut 
by steward as it was passed. 

d. Ceremonial observances, as libation, honoring of guest, show- 

ing appreciation of song or story by gift of choice morsels, 
etc. 

2. Later times. 

a. Elaborate tables, marble, wood, bronze, inlay, etc. 

b. Guests reclined on couches, piled with cushions; used right 

hand only in eating. 

c. No forks, fingers used entirely. Forks used only for kitchen 

serving. 

d. Cup-bearer and attendants kept wine cups filled. Tables 

changed at end of courses. 



l6 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

e. Women of family not present at feasts; music, juggling, 

dancing by hired female entertainers. 

f. Sjrmposia at end of meal, learned or polite discussions calling 

out wit and thought of company. 

ROME. 

I. Early History. Living frugal, like that of early Greeks; food pro- 
ducts and methods of preparation very similar. Imitated Greeks 
in all culinary matters. National dish, porridge. 

II. Later Times — Republic. 

1. Fish, red mullet favorite.; shellfish, oysters especially. Game of 

all kinds, birds especially. Domesticated animals, pork highly 
prized; beef and mutton used; fowl bred extensively. Romans 
first to caponize cocks. Geese fattened and stuflfed, livers 
considered great delicacy. 

2. Vegetables — cabbage, lentils, beans, peas, carrots, sorrel, pars- 

ley, truflSes, mushrooms, asparagus; fruits — apples favorite, 
plums, cherries, pears, nuts of many kinds, olives, grapes 
for raisins and for wine. 

3. Beverages — ^beer and malt liquors used among common people, 

wine also common beverage ; honey used in certain fermented 
drinks. 

III. Empire — luxury and degeneracy. Feasts of this time marked by: 

1. A profusion of viands, number of articles served rather than 

excellence the criterion — as Feasts of Heliogabalus, Nero, 
Claudius, Vitellius. 

2. Articles brought from great distances and noted for their rarity 

and costliness. See Good Cheer, p. 57. 

3. Gluttony rather than epicureanism the custom of the time. 

IV. Table Service — like that of the Greeks — reclined on couches around 

table. Much the same manner of serving and eating as in later 
Athenian days. Roman culture borrowed bodily from Greek. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Bible. 
Translations from Iliad, Odyssey, Vergil, Horace, Herodotus, Livy, 

Tacitus, Plutarch, Plato, Apicius, Athenaeus, Martial, Petronius 

Arbiter, Ovid. 

Blumner, H Home Life of Ancient Greeks, 1893 

BoTSFORD, G. W History of Ancient World, 1911 

Ebers, George Egyptian Princess, 1883 

Erman Life in Ancient Egypt, p. 188-193, 1894 

Ferrero, G Women of the Caesars, 1911 

Gulick, C. B Life of the Ancient Greeks, Ch. X-XI, 1902 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY I7 

Hackwood, F. W Good Cheer, 1911 

KuHL-RoMER Home Life of the Greeks and Romans 

LiNEHAN, Ray Habitations of Man, 1894 : 

Mahaffy, J. P Social Life of Greece, 1890 

Maspero, G. C., 

Life in Ancient Egypt and Assyria, Ch. H, VI, XII, XIV, 1892 

Reich, Emil Woman Throughout the Ages, 1908 

St. John, M. J. H Manners and Customs of Ancient Greece, 1842 

Seymour, T. D. . . . Homeric Viands CIn-~Eroceedings of American Philo- 
logical Ass'n., Vol. XXX, 1899). 
Wilkinson, Sir John G., 

Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians, 1878 



DATES IN MEDIEVAL HISTORY 
Eastern Empire Western Empire England 



A.D. 

324 



Constantine the 
Great 

Seat of empire re- 
moved from Rome 
to Constantinople 



375 Invasion of 
Visigoths 

55 J Birth of Moham- 
med 



622 
632 



732 



Hejira 

Spread of Moham- 
medan power 



Battle of Tours 
Mohammedans 
driven south of 
Pyrenees 



Jerusalem in hands 
of Mohammedans 



Fall of Constanti- 
nople 



AD. 



476 



Sack of Rome by 
Alaric 

Fall of Rome be- 
fore Germanic in- 
vaders 



480-752 Merovingian 
Kingdom of 
Franks, begun 
under Clovis, pre- 
vails in west 



732 



768 
800 



1096 
1244 



Charles Martel de- 
feats Mohamme- 
dans 

Charlemagne 
Charlemagne 
founds Holy 
Roman Empire 

First Crusade 

End of Crusades 



1347 The Black Death 
1300-1400 Renaissance 

1429-31 Joan of Arc 

1461-1483 Louis XI 

and uniHcation of 
France 



1492 



Voyage of 
Columbus 



B.C. 

55 



A.D. 

500 



Caesar's conquest [ 
of Brittain ) 



England under 
Saxon rule 



871-901 Alfred the 

Great 
1066 Norman Conquest 

12 1 5 Magna Charta 

J338-1453 Hundred 
Years' War 

1340-1400 Chaucer 



1455-85 War of Roses 



l8 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

MEDIEVAL TIMES 

Until the time of Charlemagne, it is useless to try to trace modern 
geographic divisions or modern race characteristics among the rude 
savage hordes which swept down from northern Europe upon Rome. 
Roman culture and with it Roman luxury, were apparently destroyed, and 
for the food customs of tlje time we can turn back to the records of 
barbaric peoples, as outlined earlier in this course. There are, however, 
four strong influences discernible: 

1. Influence of Eastern peoples and of Eastern food-products upon 

Western barbarians. 

2. Influence of monastic life and habits. 

3. Influence of submerged, but not entirely lost, Roman culture and 

manner of living, which gradually affected all European , 
customs. 

4. Influence of constant war, making fighting, instead of agriculture 

and manufacture, the chief industry. 
I. Influence of Orient. 

1. Difference in natural products, introduction to tropical fruits, to 

spiced foods, richer wines. 

2. With rise of Mohammedan faith, certain food restrictions grew 

up. 

II. Influence of Monasteries. 

1. Monasteries only places of protected quiet in turbulent times. 

Therefore peaceful arts were fostered there, especially agri- 
culture, horticulture, and breeding and raising of stock. 

2. Men of refinement and culture were attracted to them, and 

gradually older ideal of rude, coarse fare was superseded by 
tradition of soft living. 

3. With large numbers of men in these bodies, functions of each 

became subdivided and well-defined, leading to constantly 
growing luxuries of living and of service. 

4. Constant communication between widely scattered monasteries of 

the four orders fostered interchange of delicacies and growth 
of luxurious living. 

5. Monasteries only inns of time, and therefore the hospitality of 

their tables became famous. 

6. Constant entertaining of high ecclesiastical and political digni- 

taries necessitated highly developed service and luxurious 
provision. 

7. Monastic study and research to discover elixir of life resulted in 

brewing and distilling of rich liquors ; thus we get choicest of 
wines and cordials from monastic orders, benedictine, char- 
treuse, etc. 

III. Influence of Roman Culture. 

I. Survival in Italian cities where invaders overwhelmed but did not 
wipe out conquered population. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY I9 

2. Survival in literature and traditions of earlier days, disregarded 

at first by conquerors, but preserved largely through influence 
of monasteries. 

3. Gradual reappearance in mode of living of leaders among the 

conquerors, who desired to ape magnificence of their prede- 
cessors. 

IV. Influence of Constant Warfare. 

1. Return to simplicity of natural, local foods. 

2. Return to simplicity of preparation, with ruder style of living. 

3. Falling off of food-supply checked tendency toward extravagance 

and luxury. 

THE CRUSADES 

I. Introduction of New Food Supply. 

1. Oriental fruits : orange, citron, melon, plum, prune, date, fig, 

raisin. 

2. Spices : cloves, mace, etc. 

3. Nuts : almond, filbert, etc. 

II. Rise of Church Dignitaries to great temporal magnificence, with 
attendant luxury in living and service. 

1. Creation of Kingdom of Jerusalem under Godfrey de Bouillon. 

2. Formation of Orders of Templars and Hospitallers. 

III. Immediate Popularizing of Oriental Methods of food preparation 

1. Through returned Crusaders. 

2. Through travelling clergy. 

3. Through influence of "palmers." 

FRANCE, SPAIN, AND ITALY IN MIDDLE AGES 

I. Distinguished by Greater Refinement of Cookery than that of 
North European countries and England. Paid more attention to 
manner of preparation. 

II. Difference in Climate caused great difference in proportion of meat 
to vegetables in diet. England and Germany spoken of con- 
temptuously for huge consumption of beef and brawn. 

III. Difference in Natural Products and Native Fruits, as olive, 

grape, etc., made difference in diet. 

IV. Artistic Taste Led to Extravagant Service, as "sotelties," huge 

fancy pieces done in sugar and intended only to please the eye; 
peacock roasted and served in plumage ; boar's head gilded before 
serving, etc. 

V. Renaissance Affected Art of Dining, as all other arts. 
I. Elaborated table service and ceremonial. 



20 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

2. Elaborated dishes and utensils; in Italy, table-fork invented. 

3. Elaborated cookery itself, and rarity and costliness of viands 

sought for. 

ENGLAND to 1500 

I. Saxon England. 

1. Foods. 

a. Meats and fish staple in diet, huge quantities being consumed. 

Customary to roast beeves whole. 

b. Fowl esteemed and raised for table; wild fowl considered 

delicacies. 

c. Few vegetables known; cereals (barley, corn, rarely wheat) 

ground for bread ; acorns commonly used as meal by poor. 

d. Liquor distilled from grain the common drink, even among 

rulers. Mead, made from honey, favorite drink. 

2. Table customs. 

a. Huge feasts, to celebrate battles or as signs of good will, 

frequent occurrences. 

b. Men and women sat at table together, ranged according to 

rank, all sitting at same board. 

c. Dishes and utensils rude — cups of horn, dishes of wood, meat 

served on spits on which it was roasted; no forks, but 
each guest brought his own knife. Table cloths used, but 
not napkins. 

d. Heavy drinking the rule. Singing and professional jesting 

the entertainment. The bard improvised verses in honor 
of giver of feast. 

3. Architecture. 

a. Dining hall largest room in the one-story structure. Table 

simply boards laid on trestles, removable when not in use. 
Guests sat on benches without backs. 

b. Kitchen early separated from dining hall, built around chim- 

ney, where all cooking was done before open fire. 

n. Norman England. 

I. Foods. 

a. Greater refinement at once came in with the more cultured 

Normans. Cookery for first time in England regarded as 
an art. Flavor and delicacy more esteemed than mere 
quantity, as among Saxons. With this period comes 
influence of Crusades, with its importation of Eastern 
fruits, as citron, cloves, lemons, oranges, figs, and dates, 
and its spices for preserving meats through winter. 
Norman nobles brought their own stewards and cooks, 
and these positions became posts of honor in household. 

b. Drinks. Upper classes used wines almost entirely; depised 

beer, ale and mead, which continued to be beverages of 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 21 

common people. Heavy drinking still customary with 
both classes. Cider popular beverage, 
c. Vegetable foods much more common than in Saxon period. 
See Good Cheer, p. 85. 

2. Architecture. 

a. Dining hall. Gothic architecture, with high arched roof and 

gallery at one end. Long ceremonial table, with raised 
table on dais across end where master and distinguished 
guests sat. Elaborate ceremony of service. 

b. Divisions of kitchen, with pantry, buttery, etc. 

3. Derivation of our words to-day from 

a. Anglo-Saxon terms, i.e.. Lord, Lady. 

b. Norman terms for foods, i.e., beef, veal. 

c. Monastic divisions of labor, i.e., butler, steward. 

4. Sports and occupations. 

a. Hunting. Wild deer, boar, hare, etc., hunted and kept in 

preserves. 

b. Hawking. Sport of nobility in Norman England. Hawks 

used to bring down small birds, used as food and es- 
teemed as delicacies. 

c. Fishing. Occupation rather than sport; nobility seldom en- 

gaged in it, though sea-food was staple of diet. 

III. Picture of English in Chaucer's Day. 

1. Monastic fare. Prologue to Canterbury Tales. 

2. Traveller's fare, at inns. 

3. Fare of gentlefolk, description of Merchant and of Cook. 

4. Table manners, description of Prioress. 

IV. Appearance of Books of Cookery. 

1. Treatise on Cookery, 1375, by Guillerant, cook to Charles V. 

2. Forme of Cury, 1390, in England, by cook to Richard II. 

3. De Honesta Voluptate et Valitudine, 1474, in Venice. 

4. De Re Culinaria, CoUius Apicius, 1498. 

5. The Noble Boke of Cookery, 1500, in England. 

6. Boke of Kervynge, Wynkyn de Word, 1513, in England. 

7. Kuchenmeistery, Strassburg, 1516. 

8. Manual by Scappi, privy cook to Piux V, 1622. 

9. Proper Newe Boke of Cookery, England, 1570. 
ID. The Good Housewife's Treasury, England, 1588. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Abrams, Annie English Life and Manners in Later Middle Ages, 1913 

A^RAMS, Annie Social England in the isth Century, 1909 

Arabian Nights' Entertainment 

Babee's Boke .' (Training at Table) 1868 (Reprint) 

Baede Eccleciastical History, 600 

Balch, Elizabeth Glimpses of Old English Homes, 1890 



22 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

Beowulf (J. H. Cox, editor) igio. Time of poem, about 500 A. D. 

Brand, John Antiquities, 1905 

Chambers, R Book of Days, 1888 

Chaucer, Geoffrey Canterbury Tales, Prologue, 1386-90 

CoMFTON-RiCKETT, Arthur LondoH Life of Yesterday, 1909 

CouLTON, G. G A Medieval Garner. 1910 

CuTTS, E. L Scenes and Characters of the Middle Ages, 1872 

CuTTS, E. L Domestic Life in England, 183S 

Evans, H-. E High History of the Holy Grail, 1908 

Freytag, G Pictures of German Life, 1862 

Frere, Fanny A Proper Newe Booke of Cookery (reprint), 1913 

Godfrey, Elizabeth English Children in the Olden Time, 1907 

GossoN, Stephen Schoole of Abuse, 1579 

Green, Mrs. A. Stoppford Town Life in the isth Century, 1894 

Guest, George Mabinogion (Time of story, about 800), 1907 

Guest, George Social History of England, 1913 

GuMMERE, F. B Old English Ballads, 1903 

GuMMERE, F. B Germanic Origins, 1892 

Hackwood, Fred., Inns, Ales, and Drinking Customs of Old England 

(no date) 

Hakluyt Voyages, 1598-1600 

Harrison, Wm England, 1577 

Heath, Sidney Pilgrim Life in the Middle Ages, 1912 

Author unknown. Land of Cockayne (Satire on Clergy), cir. iioo 

Malory, Thomas Morte d' Arthur, 1485 

Markham, Gervase English Housewife, 1617 

Marco Polo Travels, 1116 

Maskell, H. P Old Country Inns of England (no date) 

Morton, J Ancren Riwle, 1225 (modernized) 

McGovern, J., Hospitality, Mine Host from the Time of Babylon to the 

Age of the Aeroplane 

Needham, Mary Folk Festivals, 1912 

Plummer, C Life and Times of Alfred the Great 

Privy Purse Accounts of Elizabeth of York, 1502-3 
Privy Purse Accounts of Princess Mary, 1536-1544 

Salzman, L. F Medieval Byways, 1913 

Scott, Walter Ivanhoe, 1825 ; Quentin Durward, 1823 

Skeat, Wm. M The Past at Our Doors, 1911 

Stubbes, Phillipe Anatomje of Abuse, 1583 

Synge, M. B Short History of Social Life in England, 1906 

Tacitus Germania, A. D. 99 

Thrupp, John Anglo-Saxon Homes, from 5th to nth Centuries, 1862 

Traill, H. D Social England, 1901-4 

Walmesley, J., Expenses of Judge of Assizes, 1596-1601. (Cooper Ed., 

1858) 

Walsh, Wm. S Curiosities of Popular Customs, 1897 

Warner, C. D The People for whom Shakespeare Wrote, 1897 

Weston, J. L Sir Gawain (modernized) 

Wright, J. C In the Good Old Times, 1905 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 



23 



Europe 



DATES IN MODERN HISTORY 

England 



1559 Katherine de 

Medici in France 



1588 Defeat of Armada 
Break of Spain's 
dominion 

1572-1609 Rise of 

Dutch Republic 

1 61 8-1 648 Thirty Years' 
War 

1661-1715 Louis XIV of 
France 



1682-1725 Peter the 
Great of Russia 



1740-1786 Frederick the 
Great of Prussia 

1789 French Revolution 

1794 Reign of Terror 

179S-1815 Napoleon I 

1848 Napoleon III 

1853-56 Crimean War 

1870-71 Franco-Prussian 
War 

1870 Unification of Italy 

1871 Unification of 
Germany 



1536-39 Henry VIII 
confiscated 
monastic lands 

1558-1603 Reign of 
Elizabeth 

1564-1616 Shakespeare 



1649 Beheading of 
Charles I 

1 649- 1 660 Common- 
wealth and Crom- 
well 

1660-85 Charles II 

1702-14 Queen Anne 

1 714 House of Hanover 
on English throne 

1757 English in India 



1837-1901 Reign of 
Victoria 

1839-42 English in 
China 



America 



1519-36 Conquests of 

Mexico and Peru 



1607 Jamestown Colony 
1619 Plymouth Colony 



1755 French and Indian 
War 

1776-83 American 
Revolution 

1789 Adoption of 
American 
Constitution 

1845-48 Mexican War 



1860-65 Civil War 



1898 Spanish-American 
War 



24 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

MODERN TIMES : 1500 to Present Day 
I. Period opens with strong interest in 

1. Voyages and Discoveries. 

a. To New World, bringing back maize, squash, tobacco, potato, 

chocolate (from Mexico), turkey. 

b. To Indies and Eastern lands, bringing back coffee, tea, cucum- 

ber. 

c. Popularizing rarer vegetables, cabbage from Holland, etc. 

2. Colonization. 

a. England in America, Indies, India, China, Africa. 

b. France in America. 

c. Spain in North America and South America. 

d. Holland in America and Africa. 

3. Science. 

a. Gardening and horticulture; grafting, propagating, experi- 

menting, carried to high stage of perfection. Hop-grow- 
ing introduced into England. 

b. Cattle raising and breeding; cattle successfully fattened for 

market as had never before been done; scientific interest 
in improving breeds. 

c. Interest in preserving food. Sir Francis Bacon's experiment 

with cold storage for fowl. 

4. Class Consciousness. 

a. Rise of merchant class to position of social importance; 

demands on their part for best in market; rival nobility 
in display and luxury. 

b. Revolt of poor people against coarse fare, demand for more 

adequate wages, more liberal food-supply. 

c. Great wealth pouring into Europe changes conditions of 

living of all classes. 

II. Contrast Between Fare of Upper and Lower Classes great cause of 
discontent. 

1. Magnificence of courts of 

a. Catherine de Medici. 

b. Louis XIV. 

c. Elizabeth. 

d. Peter the Great and Katherine of Russia. 

e. Frederick the Great of Prussia. 

2. Culmination in 

a. French Revolution. 

b. English Reforms of 1832. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 25 

FRANCE 

I. Famous Monarchs Who Influenced French Cookery. 

1. Catherine de Medici. 

a. Brought Italian elegance of food-preparation. 

b. Set standard of magnificence. 

2. Louis XIV. 

a. Chefs. 

b. Favorites. 

c. Taste in dishes. 

3. Marie Antoinette arid French Revolution. 

4. Napoleon, contrast between 

a. Soldierly fare. 

b. Imperial court. 

II. National Characteristics. 

1. Love of excellence in quality. 

2. Sauces. 

3. Delicacy of flavor. 

4. Right proportioning of foods served together. 

III. Famous Chefs. 

Bechamel, Vatel, Vincent dela Chapelle, Robert, Mest, Very, Riche, 
Hardy, Careme, Ude, Francatelli, Soyer. 

IV. Development of Restaurants. 

ENGLAND 
I. Elizabethan Times. 

a. Passion for new things, aping of foreigners. 

b. Prosperity made for magnificence among nobles, plenty 

among commons. 

c. Scientific interest in food products and in distilling, horti- 

culture, etc. 
II. Commonwealth. 

a. Time of repression; excess of every kind forbidden. 

b. Political turmoil, civil war, turned men's minds from all soft 

living and luxury. 

c. Religious severity did away with observance of feast days. 

III. Restoration and Age of Queen Anne. 

a. French influence felt strongly at court. 

b. Steady commerce with colonies made new products staple in 

diet. 

c. Scientific agriculture increased production of food stuffs enor- 

mously. 

IV. Present Time. 

a. Reform bills of 1832 lowered food prices. 

b. Tendencies noted in III continue to operate more strongly, 

especially importation and productivity. 



26 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

AMERICA 
I. Colonial Cookery. 

a. Marked by frugality and simplicity. 

b. New food products, maize especially, staple. 

c. Little imported save wine and condiments. 

d. Effect of mingling of various national stocks seen in cookery, 

i.e.. New England and Dutch of New York. 

II. Revolutionary Cookery. 

a. Provision liberal, but without European refinement. 

b. Vigorous outdoor life of times called for heavy diet; meat 

large part. 

c. Contrast : 

1. New England 

2. Virginia and Maryland 

3. Frontier, Kentucky, etc. 

III. Present Day Influences. 
I. Wars and conquests. 



Commerce and intercourse. 
Developing of vast natural resources. 
Immigration. 
Scientific advances. 

a. Cooking schools. 

b. Literature of cookery. 

c. Production of better varieties of foods. 

d. Preservation of foods, cold storage, transportation, etc. 
6. Famous hotels and restaurants. 

CHINA 

A vast country, shut off from rest of civilization both by natural 
barriers and by temper of people themselves. Its civilization goes back to 
3000 B. c. In itself and apparently independent of any surrounding civil- 
ization, China passes through all the stages outlined from simple brute 
existence to the most complex social organization and development. It 
had, however, almost no influence on other peoples, because of its isolation. 
Therefore its food customs are considered with those of modern times, 
for it is only in our own day that they have become familiar. 

Food Products. 

1. Animal. Fish of all kinds, shellfish, sea-snails, eels, shark-fins, 

sea slugs. Beef not used as food, mutton esteemed, pork 
used freely, deer and antelope used. Fowl or game birds 
regarded as delicacy. Dogs, rats, moles, used for food. 
Eggs staple of diet. 

2. Vegetables. Many varieties of grain, rice staple article of diet, 

celery, bamboo shootsymuts, fruits, oranges, etc., fir cones. 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 2"] 

3. Beverages. Wine, distilled liquor from rice, tea; Chinese an 

abstemious race, drunkenness a disgrace. 

4. Two meals per day, luncheon and dinner. Women never present 

at formal dinner. Service always of four (or multiple of 
four) covers. No knives, forks, or spoons used. Chop-sticks 
of ebony or ivory instead. All food served in small portions 
so that cutting is unnecessary. Ceremonial elaborate. 

INDIA 

Food habits comparatively unknown till modern times, though civil- 
ization as ancient as Persia. Climate ranges from tropical to temperate. 
No distinct botanical features. Much game of all kinds. Agriculture sole 
industry of the people. Largely vegetarians, cookery very simple. Had 
little influence on ancient world, more on England in 19th century. 

CHARACTERISTIC DISHES 

I. Germany noted for 

1. Sausage. 

2. Sauerkraut. 

3. Breads and cakes of all kinds. 

4. Wines and beer. 

II., Norway and Sweden. 

1. Plain, simple foods. 

2. Fish, especially preserved by smoking. 

3. Great variety of fancy breads. 

III. Spain. 

1. Olla podrida. 

2. Peppers in cookery. 

3. Wines. 

4. Choice fruits. 

IV. Italy. 

1. Oil in cookery. 

2. Cheese. 

3. Wines. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

General References 

Addison Sir Roger de Coverly, in Spectator, 1714 

Andrews, Wm Bygone England, 1892 

AsHTON, John Dawn of r9th century in England. 1886 

AsHTON, John Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne, 1897 

Besant, Walter London, 1903-1909 

Blackmore, R. S Lorna Doone, 1869 



28 



TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 



Boas, Mrs. Frederick In Shakespeare's England, 1904 

BoswELL, James Life of Samuel Johnson, 1791 

Bradley, Rosa M., 

The English Housewife in 17th and i8th centuries, 1912 

Carlyle, Thomas The French Revolution, 1837 

Cervantes Don Quixote, 1605-1615 

Cheney, E. P., 

Introduction to Industrial and Social History of England, 1901 
Chronicles of an Old Campaigner 
Court of the Tuilleries 

Defoe, Daniel Journal of the Plague Year, 1719 

Dickens, Chas David Copperfield, 1850 

Dickens, Chas Our Mutual Friend, 1865 

Dickens, Chas Martin Chuzzlewit, 1844 

Dickens, Chas., 

Christmas Carol, 1843; Cricket on the Hearth, The Chimes, 1S44 

Dickens, Chas Tale of Two Cities, 1859 

Deake Shakespeare and His Times 

Dumas, A Culinary Dictionarj 

Earle, Alice Morse Customs and Fashions in Old New England, 1894 

Evelyn, John Diary, 1641-1697 

FisKE, John Dutch and Quaker Colonies of America, 1899 

Gay, John Trivia, 1716 

Hall, Hubert Society in the Elizabethan Age, 1886 

Irving, Washington Knickerbocker History of New York, 1809 

Irving, Washington Sketch Book, 1818 

Lamb, Charles Essay on Roa^t Pig, 1822 

Lang, Andrew Social England 

Newnham-Davis A Gourmet's Guide to Paris 

Payne Voyages of English Seamen 

Pepys, Samuel Diary, 1660-1669 

Prior Poems, 1687 

Pope, Alexander Poems, 1709-1737 

Robinson, H. P Twentieth Century America 

Rye. .England as Seen by Foreigners in the Days of Elizabeth and James I 

Scott, Walter Waverly, 18x4 

Shelley Inns and Taverns of Old London, igog 

Sidney, W. C, 

Social Life in England from the Restoration to the Revolution 

Smollett, Tobias Peregrine Pickle, 1751 

Stephenson, H. J The Elizabethan People, 1910 

Thackeray, W. M Some Dinners in Paris, i860 

Thackeray, W. M Poems 

Walton, Isaac Compleat Angler, 1653 

Austin, Thomas Two 15th Century Cookery Books, 1888 

Hazlitt, W. Cahew Old Cookery Books, IQ02 



an outline on the history of cookery i'q 

Hooker, Margaret H., 

Ye Gentlewoman's Housewifery, compiled from Old Sources, 1912 
Oxford, A. W., 

Notes from a Collector's Catalog, with a Bibliography of English 

Cookery Books, 1909 
Senn, H. C Ye Art of Cookery in Ye Olden Time (no date) 

Old Cookery Books 

AccuM, Fred Culinary Chemistry, 1821 

Acton, Elizabeth English Bread Book, 1857 

Adam's Luxury and Eve's Cookery, 1774 
Artachthos or the Assize or Weight of Bread, 1638 

Austin, Thomas Two 15th Century Cookery Books, 1888 

Book of Cookrye by J. W., 1591 

Book of Receipts for Pastry Cookery and Pickling, 1680 

Briggs, Richard English Art of Cookery, 1794 

Briggs, Richard New Art of Cookery, 1798 

Butler, Caroline London and Country Cook, cir. 1800 

Carter, Charles Compleat City and Country Cook, 1730 

Carter, Charles London and Country Cook, 1739 

Carter, Charles Noble Art and Mystery of Cookery, 1729 

Carter, Susannah The Frugal Housewife, 1796 

Clermont, B The Professed Cook, 1776 

CoLLiNGWOOD and Woolams Universal Cook, 1792 

Compleat Cook, 1655 

Complete Family Piece, 1737 

Complete British Housewife, 1730 

Cookery Reformed or the Lady's Assistant, 1755 

Cook, Ann The Professed Cook, 1750 

Cook's Vade Mecum, 1705 

DiGBY, Sir Kenelm Cookery, 1669 

Evelyn, John Discourse on Thirty-Five Sallets, 1699 

Farley, John London Art of Cookery, 1789 

Frazer, Mrs Practice of Cookery, Pastry and Confectionery, i?04 

Gastronomy, 1822 

Glasse, Mrs. Hannah Art of Cookery, 1746 

Glasse, Mrs. Hannah Complete Confectioner, 1800 

Grahame, W The Art of Making Wines, 1783 

Hall, T The Queen's Royal Cookery, 1713 

Hazlemoee, M Domestic Economy, 1794 

Henderson, W. A Housekeeper's Instructor, 1809 

Hunter, A Culina Famulatrix Medicinae, 1806 

Kettilby, Mary Receipts in Cookery, 1724 

King, W The Art of Cookery, 1709 

Kitchener, W The Cook's Oracle, 1821 

Kitchener, W The Housekeepers' Oracle, 1829 

Liber Cure Cocarum 



30 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

Magii, Domenico Virtu del Kafe, 1565 

Markham, Gervase English Housewife, 1683 

May, Thomas Accomplished Cook, 1665 

MoLLAKD, John Art of Cookery Made Easy and Refined, 1808 

MoxoN, Elizabeth English Housewifery, 1785 

Noble Boke of Cookery, 1500 

NoTT, John Cook's Dictionary, 1723 

Northumberland Household Book (1512), 1770 

NuTT, Fredemck The Complete Confectioner, 1809 

Ordinances and Regulations for the Government of the Royal Household, 

1790 
The Queen's Closet Opened, 1679 

Raffald, Elizabeth The Experienced English Housekeeper, 1786 

Salmon, W Family Dictionary or Household Companion, i6g6 

ScAPPi, B Opera, 1622 

School for Good Living, 1814 

Shackleford, Mrs. Anne Modern Art of Cookery, 1767 

Simpson, J - Complete Book of Cookery, 1806 

Smith Compleat Housewife, 1734 

Warner, Richard Antiquitates Culinariae, 1791 

White, John Art of Baking, 1828 

Whole Duty of Woman, a Guide from Sixteen to Sixty, 1712 

WooLEY, Hanna The Queenlike Closet, 1680 

Wynkyn de Word Boke of Kervynge, 1513 

European Cookery 

Home Life in Many Lands, series published by the Macmillan Co., 1911-14 

Campbell, Helen , In Foreign Kitchens, 1893 

FiLiPPiNi, A International Cook Book, 1906 

French 

Albert, B Le Cuisinier Parisian, 1825 

Audot, L. E La Cuisiniere de la Campagne et de la Ville, 1834 

Beauvilliers, a L'Art Cuisinier, 1814 

Berchoux, J La Gastronomic, 1805 

Caron French Dishes for American Tables, t88s 

Careme, M. a The Royal Parisian Pastry Cook 

De Chelus Histoire Naturel du Cacao et du Sucre, 1719 

Dubois, U Cuisine de tous le Pays, 1872 

Dubois and Bernard La Cuisine Classique, 1864 

French Family Cook, 1793 

Keyser, Mrs. Franci* French Household Cooking (no date) 

Low, B. J French Home Cooking, 1904 

Manon La Cuisiniere Bourgeoise, 1775 

Manon La Nouvelle Cuisiniere Bourgeoise, 1816 

Mario, A Easy French Cooking, 1910 

Ude, Louis The French Cook, 1813 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 3 1 

German 

Davidis, Henriette, 

German National Cookery for American Homes, 1904 

Hanneman^ Elise Kochbuch, igii 

Kochkunst, 1837 

KiJBLER, M. S Das Hausevesen, im Brief en, 1905 

Oswald, Ella German Cookery for the American Home, igo7 

Rottenhofer lUustriertes Kochbuch (no date) 

Taylor, Mrs. Bayard Letters to a Young Housekeeper 

Indian and Colonial 

Baker and Cook ^. A Domestic Manual for India, 1912 

Cutcrewe, Carrie Memsahib's Book of Cookery, 1894 

Herbert, A. K Wyvern's Indian Cookery Cook, 1904 

Pearson and Byrd Breads (India), IQ07 

Wright, Mrs. I. T Indian Cookery Book, igoi 

CocKBURN, Lester, 

Practical Guide to Cookery in West Africa (no date) 
MusKETT, P. E Art of Living in Australia 

Italian 

GiRONCi, Maria Italian Recipes for Food Reform, 1905 

IsoLA Simple Italian Cookery, IQ12 

Jarrin, G. a Italian Confectioner, 1841 

Magii, Domenico Virtu del Kafe, 1565 

RoMOLO Some Italian Recipes, 1905 

RosELLi Opera Noua Chiamata, 1517 

Ross, Janet Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen 

ScAppi, B Opera, 1622 

Waters, Mrs. W. G Cook's Decameron, igoi 

Jewish 

Kander, Mrs. Simon The Settlement Cook Book, 1901 

Levy, Mrs. E. J Jewish Cookery Book, 1871 

American Cookery 

Beecher, C. E Domestic Receipt Book, 1848 

Blot, Pierre Handbook of Practical Cookery, 1867 

Bomberger, 

Colonial Recipes from Old Virginia and Maryland Manors, IQ07 

Campbell, Helen The Easiest Way, 1893 

Child, Lydia Maria The Frugal Housewife, 1829 

The Cook Not Mad or Rational Cookery, 1831 

DeVoe, T The Market Book, 1862 

Earle, Alice Morse Colonial Dames and Good Wives, 1895 

Earle, Alice Morse Colonial Days in Old New York, i8g6 

Earle, Alice Morse The Sabbath in Puritan New England, 1891 



32 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

Earle, Alice Morse Stage Coach and Tavern Days, 1901 

EscoFFiER, A Guide to Modern Cookery, IQ07 

Experienced American Housekeeper, 1823 

Fellowes Culinary Handbook, 1904 

FiELDj Edward The Colonial Tavern, 1897 

Garrett Encyclopedia of Cookery 

GouFFE, J Book of Preserves, 1871 

GouFi-i, j Royal Cookery Book, 1888 

Graham, S On Bread, 1837 

Harland, Marion Some Colonial Homesteads, 1S97 

Leslie, Eliza Complete Cookery, 1841 

Leslie, Eliza More Receipts, 1852 

Pocumtuc Housewife Reprint Deerfield, Mass., IQ07 

Randolph, Mary Virginia Housewife, 1838 

RuNDELL, M. E American Domestic Cookery, 1S23 

Sala, G. a The Thorough Good Cook, 1896 

Singleton, Esther Social New York Under the Georges, 1002 

Smith, J. H Famous Old Recipes, 1908 

Smith, Prudence Modern American Cookery, 1831 

SoYER, A Culinary Campaign, 1857 

Soyer, a Gastronomic Regeneration, 1846 

Statesmen's Dishes, 1887 

Waters, T. F. .Ipswich in the Massachusetts Bay Colony (1633-1700), 190S 

Webster, A. L The Improved Housewife, 1856 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 33 

CHRISTMAS 

In the celebration of the Christmas festival on the 2Sth of December, 
Christian nations are in reality perpetuating the older pagan feasts which 
marked the period of the winter solstice, the time when the sun begins his 
upward climb in the heavens, the return to light and warmth. From 
earliest times this has been the occasion of revelry, feasting and rejoicing 
among all peoples. Among the Phoenicians it was the feast of Baal, or 
Bel, the Sun God ; among the Romans, the feast of Saturn, or Saturnalia, 
and it is from the customs of this celebration that the masking, mumming, 
or pantomime, so characteristic a part of the Christmas festivities in the 
Old World, is derived. Among our Teutonic ancestors, it was the Feast 
of Odin, and our name of Yule-tide, and the ceremonial of the Yule-log, 
are reminders of these older forms of Druid worship, to mark the turn 
of the year, or the "wheeling" of the sun in the heavens. The canny fathers 
of the church endeavored, in so far as was possible, to make the high-days 
and holy-days of the Christian calendar coincide with the periods of 
traditional celebration among the people, thus making a painless transition. 
And in their successful carrying out of this policy, hosts of customs in no 
way connected with the Christian character of the celebration were trans- 
ferred bodily. Thus mince-pie, a characteristic Christmas dish, is the 
lineal descendant of the old Teutonic "blood-pudding'' or sausage, which 
differed from common sausage by being sweetened and having plums 
mixed with it. Not until a comparatively late date was it baked in a 
crust; and indeed plum-pudding and mince pie are first cousins, both 
springing from this famous dish. We may include here, too, the old 
plum-porridge, or pottage, with which the Christmas feast always opened, 
for it belongs with the other two in point of derivation. 

In England, the main dish of the Christmas feast was the boar's head. 
It was prepared by pickling, then roasted, and served on a platter of gold 
or silver, its tusks gilded, a roast apple in its mouth, sprigs of rosemary 
and bay to deck it, and the inevitable mustard to season it. So important 
was its place in the feast that its entrance was preceded by heralds or 
trumpeters, and it was borne in, held aloft by the chief steward himself. 
None meaner in degree than a knight might carve it. The old Oxford 
carol, 

"Caput apri defero," 
was sung as it was borne around the board. 

Another dish in high favor for this feast was the peacock. One can 
only account for the esteem in which this bird was held by the fact of its 
rarity and beauty, for even after all the elaborate preparation and the 
lavish use of good materials to make it palatable (one old recipe calls for 
the flesh of three wethers, tender and good, to make the gravy for a 
single bird), the meat was dry, stringy, and tasteless. The bird was first 
carefully skinned, then stuffed with minced flesh, savory herbs, and a 
dressing of yolks of eggs, then roasted and dressed with the before- 
mentioned gravy. The skin with the plumage was then sewn in place, 
the tail spread to display its full beauty, the beak gilded, and a bit of 



34 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

cotton soaked in brandy inserted therein. It was borne to the table with 
this ablaze, and only the ladies might bring it in, or carve it and serve it. 
Sometimes it was baked in a pie, and then in serving, the head protruded 
from one end, the full-spread tail from the other. An oath taken upon this 
pie was peculiarly sacred, and knights swore upon it their devotion to the 
lady of their choice. Hence comes the old expression "by cock and pie." 
Swans were sometimes given the place of honor when peacock could not 
be obtained, and brawn and sirloin of beef were other Christmas favorites. 
In France and Spain as well as in England, the oyster occupies a promi- 
nent place at the feast, and a gift of a barrel of oysters is a delicate 
attention from one friend to another. While we find frequent mention 
of , venison-pasties, this is not a distinctively Christmas dish in any 
country. ~~ 

The Christmas cake is an institution in every land. It is of the 
richest composition the means of the household can afford; old tradition 
says it should be baked a month before it is to be eaten, and dipped in 
spiced ale or brandy every day for a fortnight. It usually contains fruits 
and nuts, and in the old days was sometimes so huge as to be baked in 
sections, as a single oven could not accommodate it. It was iced and 
built up with sugar devices, much as bride-cakes sometimes are. Some- 
times it was called Twelfth-cake, and then in the baking, a bean, a pea, 
and a clove were put in it. When it was cut, the person to whose portion 
the bean fell was king, she who had the pea was queen, and the clove 
designated the knave. These dignitaries were installed with revelry, and 
ruled till Twelfth Night, being absolute in all commands for their little 
reigns. 

The wassail-bowl was another famous Christmas institution. The 
derivation of the word signifies a health, and in the older days, before 
wines were common and easily obtainable, it was composed of spiced ale, 
with roasted apples bobbing in it. In later days, mulled wine was its basis. 
It was passed round the board, hot and spicy, and each took a deep draft 
from the common cup. It is not until the sixteenth century that we find 
individual cups used for this drink, for the ceremony of partaking of it 
was in itself of a certain democratic significance. > 

Frumenty, a dish of wheat cakes seethed in milk, with pounded 
almonds, was a great standby, served sometimes with venison, sometimes 
as a dish by itself. Geese, capon, pheasant, and carp-tongue pie are all 
mentioned as Christmas dishes. Hares, venison, a fine piece of brawn, 
were all customary Christmas gifts from one householder to another. 
Originally such gifts were made on New Year's Day, and this is still the 
custom in some continental countries. New Year's day marked the 
height of the Roman Saturnalia, and this is but another relic from that 
time. 

Certain games and folk-customs, which with us are associated with 
Hallowe'en, really belong to the Yule celebration. Among these are 
bobbing for apples, and jumping for the cake. This last was a rude sport, 
where a cake, daubed with treacle, was suspended by a string from a 



AN OUTLINE ON THE HISTORY OF COOKERY 35 

beam in the ceiling, and the contestants, with arms bound behind them, 
jumped and tried to bite the cake. Then there was the Christmas Eve 
blessing of the orchards, where the whole company, after partaking, 
oilered the remnants of the cake to the largest apple tree, and sprinkled the 
ground <with the wine, thus assuring abundance for the coming year. 

On Christmas morning all the children of the community could go 
from house to house, asking for simnel cakes, and no one would refuse 
them. Their elders made similar calls, but instead of the simnel cakes, 
they were served with "egg-hot," a forerunner of our own "egg-nogg," 
made with cider, and with cakes of pounded almonds, our marzipan. 
Everywhere extravagance of provision, hearty eating and deeper drinking 
were the rule of the day. 

With the Period of the Reformation, and especially with the rise of 
the Puritans in England, all observation of Christmas and of Twelfth- 
night as times of feast and revel was not only frowned on, but forbidden 
both by law and by church authority. But the love of the festival was 
too deeply implanted to be thus uprooted, and with the passing of Crom- 
• well, we see the old spirit breaking out again in even wilder rejoicing. 
Our own Puritan ancestors came to America while Christmas was in 
eclipse, and consequently New Englanders kept the day as a fast, till their 
Knickerbocker neighbors had corrupted them. Much of the character of 
the celebration in America to-day is borrowed from our German settlers, 
and dates back only to the middle of the last century. 

For excellent descriptions of Christmas celebrations, see 

Scott Marmion, 1808 

Chambers Book of Days, 1888 

Hackwood Good Cheer, 1911 

Irving Bracebridge Hall, 1818 

Dickens Pickwick Papers, 1837 

Dickens Christmas Carol, 1843. 

Dickens Cricket on the Hearth, 1844 

AsHTON, John A Righte Merrie Christmasse, 1894 

Hervey, T. K Book of Christmas, 1888; 

Sandys, Wm Christmas Tide, 1852 

ScHAUFFLER, R. H Christmas, 1907 

SUGGESTED TOPICS FOR CLASS DEVELOPMENT 

Food Taboos in Primitive Society. 

Wars and Food. 

The Effect of Climate upon Diet. 

Religion and Food. 

Dinner Throughout the Ages. 

Development of Utensils. 

Methods of Applying Heat to Food. 

The Crusades. 

Royal Tastes. 



36 TECHNICAL EDUCATION BULLETIN 

Feasts in History. 

Feasts in Fiction. 

The Literature of Cookery. 

Folklore and Food. 

Table Customs. 

National Dishes. 

Famous Chefs. 

The Bread of All Nations. 

Cooking Schools and Their Influence. 

Commerce and Food Habits. 

American Holidays. 

GENERAL BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Andrews, Julia C Breakfast, Dinner and Tea, 186Q 

Brillat-Savahin, J. A Gastronomy as a Fine Art, 1813 (pub. 1854) 

Brillat-Savarin, J. A Physiology of Taste, 1825 (pub. 1854) 

Buckland, Anne Our Viands, 1893 

Child, Theodore Delicate Feasting (no date) 

DoRAN, J . . . : Table Traits, 1859 

Ellwanger, G. H Pleasures of the Table, igo2 

Encyclopedia Britannica 

FiLippiNi, A The Table, i88g 

Fink, Henry T Food and Flavor, iqi3 

GoNLEY, J. W. S Dining and Its Amenities, 1907 

Hackwood, Frederick Good Cheer, igii 

Haywood, A The Art of Dining 

HuMELBERGius, Secundus Dick Apiciau Morsels, 1829 

Jefferson, Cordy Book About the Table 

Kettner Book of the Table 

KiRWAN, A. V Host and Guest, 1864 

Reyniere, Grimrode de Almanach des Gourmands, 1808 

Sherwood, M. E. W ^ The Art of Entertaining 

Soyer, a. B Pantropheon (no date) 

Soyer, a. B Spirit of Cookery, 1895 

Walker, T Aristology, or the Art of Dining 

Bartlett, John Familiar Quotations, 1875-97 

Corey, E. L Books and My Food, 1904 

Hone Everyday Book, 1853 (pub. 1889) 

Smith, J. C Synonyms and Antonyms, 1867 



^'f- 1 



■i. 






,<■ ' 



• ^' . ■:.'•']? 


. ■ ■ •■'* 


/ '^-..-iti 


i; ■"••■; 


- - '-i' 


.•.'■■■. .;8 

• ■ 1 ^ 


■■ ;^'"";^3 


;.. ri > "■' i3 


>*• 1 .!J| 


/ . '• ^'''ll 


., ,'--l»<l 


. ' i ::!, ti 


'■-''' JJ- M 




. '■' .■■•■' ■■Y^'.^m 



^ ■•,■■■■ "'"I/'^-n;-' 



,■■<■' .■■/'■ w 



