HEALTH SURVEY OF 
NEW HAVEN 



A REPORT PRESENTED TO THE Civic FEDERATION OF 

NEW HAVEN BY CHARLES-EDWARD AMORY WINSLOW, 

JAMES COWAN GREENWAY AND DAVID GREENBERG 

OF YALE UNIVERSITY 




-3 - a a 



NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT 

YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS 

MDCCCCXVII 



THE HEALTH SURVEY OF NEW HAVEN 

was prepared at the request of the Civic 
Federation and has since been published 
in pamphlet form as a Document of that 
organization by the Yale University 
Press. Its preparation and publication 
were made possible by the Anna M. R. 
Lauder Memorial Foundation in the School 
of Medicine, Yale University, estab- 
lished in Nineteen Hundred and Fourteen. 



HEALTH SURVEY OF NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT 



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL 

Dr. Charles J. Bartlett, 

President, Civic Federation of New Haven. 

Dear Sir : 

In the autumn of 1915 Dr. H. B. Ferris, on behalf of the Section on 
Sanitation of the Civic Federation, invited me to undertake a survey of 
conditions affecting the health of the city of New Haven and to present a 
comprehensive plan for the development of the health protective machin- 
ery of the community along the most modern and effective lines. I was 
glad to undertake this congenial task; and through the far-sighted and 
generous policy which specifically provided that the resources of the 
Anna M. R. Lauder Department of Public Health in the Yale Medical 
School should be used to further the general cause of public health in the 
State of Connecticut, it has been possible for me to devote considerable 
time to this problem during the past year and a half. I have been 
fortunate in being able to associate with myself in the work Dr. James C. 
Greenway, Director of the Department of University Health and Lecturer 
in the Department of Public Health, and Mr. David Greenberg, Instructor 
in the Department of Public Health. We have now completed our task ; 
and have the honor of transmitting to you herewith our findings and our 
recommendations . 

We desire to record our appreciation of the assistance rendered during 
the course of this study by Mr. D. O'Brien of the Yale Medical School, 
Mr. L. S. Kelley of Yale College, and Mrs. B. H. Bartlett of Teachers 
College who have cooperated in the work ; by officials of the New Haven 
Water Company, the City Engineer's office, the City Forester's office, 
the Infant Welfare Association, the Visiting Nurse Association, and the 
New Haven Dispensary ; by the physicians who gave us data in regard to 
malaria cases; and particularly we acknowledge the constant courtesy 
and helpfulness of Dr. Wright and his entire staff, who have assisted us 
in every way, have placed all the records of the department at our disposal, 
and have contributed freely of their time to supply us with the informa- 
tion needed in the conduct of our work. 

Surveys must frequently be largely critical and destructive in their 
nature. Such has fortunately not been the case with the problems pre- 



2 Health Survey of New Haven 

sented for our consideration. New Haven has a good water supply 
(which slight additional precautions can make ideally perfect from a 
sanitary standpoint), it has an excellent system of sewers which has been 
diligently extended and utilized. The fly and mosquito problems are being 
attacked with vigor and intelligence, in large part as a result of the 
activity of your Federation. 

The city has a public-spirited and forward-looking Board of Health 
and a Health Officer of long experience and complete devotion to the 
duties of his office. Under his tactful and judicious leadership the staff 
of the department has seemed to us to be animated by a spirit of loyalty 
and cooperation deserving of high praise. The supervision of nuisances, 
and the inspection of tenements, food stores, restaurants, and dairy farms 
is faithfully and well done. The division of communicable diseases, 
although pursuing certain policies which seem to us injudicious, has in the 
main proved unusually successful in its work. New Haven has been a 
pioneer in the development of medical inspection of schools and has been 
prompt to realize the value of the recent movement for dental hygiene. 
The Board of Education is doing well its part in protecting the health of 
the school child by attention to the provision of sanitary conditions in the 
schoolhouse. 

The problem of infant mortality has been attacked with vigor and 
success by the Visiting Nurse Association and the Infant Welfare Asso- 
ciation; the problem of tuberculosis with equally marked success by the 
Visiting Nurse Association and the New Haven Dispensary. New Haven 
is fortunate in possessing a Visiting Nurse Association which enjoys 
and deserves a national reputation, and an unusual group of skillful and 
public-spirited physicians gathered about the New Haven Hospital and 
the Dispensary as a nucleus. Nor should the splendid sanatoria main- 
tained by the State of Connecticut and by the New Haven County Tuber- 
culosis Association be forgotten in counting up the health assets of the 
community. 

On the debit side of the account we have pointed out below a number of 
sanitary defects which still exist and which we believe should receive 
the attention of your Federation. 

We have urged improvements in the state housing law and a better pro- 
vision for safeguarding the worker against occupational diseases. Locally 
there are four major sanitary problems which seem to us to demand 
attention, aside from the expansion of the work of the Health Department 
itself. These are the treatment of the sewage which now constitutes an 
offensive and a dangerous pollution in many parts of the Upper Harbor, 
the establishment of a municipal abattoir, the elimination of mosquito- 
breeding marshlands, and the provision of an adequate system for the 



Health Survey of New Haven j 

collection of garbage and refuse. It is unnecessary to labor the need for 
sewage treatment since the city has already appropriated money for an 
experiment station to determine the best method of attaining this end; 
your Federation should, however, be prepared to give its earnest support 
to the prompt execution of whatever plan of relief may finally be decided 
on as most feasible. The importance of anti-mosquito work has also 
been recognized by a city appropriation. We think it important in con- 
nection with this problem that the danger to health from the fresh water 
mosquitoes which breed in the neighborhood of Beaver Swamp and 
West River, and now cause many cases of malaria, should not be for- 
gotten in the desire to remove the more obvious but less dangerous 
nuisance of the salt marsh mosquito. An improvement in the system of 
collecting garbage and the inauguration of a public and general system of 
collecting ashes and rubbish seem to us to be urgently called for in the 
interest of public decency if not of public health. The mountains of 
refuse which collect during the winter months in the poorer districts are 
not creditable to the city. Their existence is inevitable unless systematic 
removal of all wastes is provided for at public expense. 

The milk supply of the city is a problem which seems to us in need of 
serious attention. Farms are inspected but the milk as sold in the city 
is not subject to any effective bacteriological control, and its general con- 
dition as indicated by our own studies is very far from satisfactory. If 
the people of New Haven are to be protected from the danger of milk- 
borne disease it is essential that the supply should be supervised by 
recognized bacteriological methods, that all milk should be graded and 
labeled according to the plan now in use in many cities, and that every 
effort should be made to secure as rapidly as possible the pasteurization by 
the holding system of all milk not of certified grade, for it is only by 
means of such pasteurization that a generally safe supply can be secured. 

Our most important problems have been those which concern the 
Health Department of the city, its organization and development. It is 
to-day a good department ; but it should be a far better one. The classical 
powers and duties of a health department are now exercised with dili- 
gence ; but the newer possibilities of modern public health are unattained. 
Dr. Wright has not been blind to these opportunities. He specifically called 
attention to many of the most essential needs of the department in a letter 
to me under date of April 18, 1916. These ends have not been realized 
because funds were lacking and funds were lacking simply because the 
governing powers of the city have not fully realized the beneficent 
potencies of a health department thoroughly organized along modern lines. 

The present Department of Health has an excellent general and a good 
corps of privates ; but with the exception of Dr. Lewis, the bacteriologist 



4 Health Survey of New Haven 

and epidemiologist, it is entirely lacking in trained and competent lieu- 
tenants. The one essential need which has been made clear by our studies 
is the need for providing the department with half a dozen efficient and 
well-qualified divisional directors, who could supervise the work of their 
subordinates and aid the health officer in the organization and develop- 
ment of their particular lines of work. 

The following expansions of the work of the Department of Health 
appear to us to be essential to its greatest usefulness : 

a. A practical rearrangement of powers and duties by which the 
Board of Health shall be able to devote its energies to the framing of 
a sanitary code and the outlining of broad departmental policies, leaving 
the conduct of administrative details in the hands of the health officer. 

b. An organization of the Department of Health in divisions, the 
present inspection and nursing staffs being each placed under a super- 
visory head. 

c. A strengthening of the division of communicable diseases by the 
addition of a nurse and a clerical assistant. 

d. The reorganization of the laboratory as a separate division of the 
department. 

e. The transfer of the work now done by the Registrar of Vital 
Statistics to the Department of Health. 

f. The reorganization of the work of medical inspection of school 
children so as to provide for a comprehensive system of school clinics. 

g. The appointment of an expert on tuberculosis to coordinate and 
develop the general campaign against this disease. 

h. The support by city funds of the Day Camp now maintained by 
the New Haven Hospital. 

i. The employment (for the present through the Infant Welfare 
Association and the Visiting Nurse Association) of three additional 
nurses for infant welfare work and three for anti-tuberculosis work. 

The cost of the suggested additions to the work of the department would 
be approximately $34,000 a year, which when added to the present appro- 
priation of $40,000 would increase the per capita expenditure for health 
work from 26 to 48 cents, the latter figure corresponding closely to the 
figure of 45 cents which has been set forth as a general average standard 
by the American Public Health Association. 

The vital statistics of the city show that the Health Department as at 
present constituted, and the splendid private organizations at work in 
the health field, have accomplished much. Tuberculosis, infant mortality, 
acute communicable diseases and last year even typhoid fever, show 
gratifying reductions and rates well below the average for American 
cities. Much, however, yet remains to be done. Marked discrepancies 



Health Survey of New Haven 5 

between the death rates in the poorer and the more prosperous wards 
show how greatly elementary sanitation is needed in the tenements. Even 
pneumonia, cancer and the degenerative maladies, which are all par- 
ticularly prevalent diseases in New Haven, can hopefully be attacked 
by an instructive health campaign. 

"Public Health Is Purchasable. Within Natural Limitations a Com- 
munity Can Determine Its Own Death Rate." The truth of this saying 
has been demonstrated time and again. It has been demonstrated in 
New Haven by what has already been accomplished. There yet remain, 
however, much preventable disease and death from which the sufferers 
may be ransomed if public sentiment demands it. A hundred lives a year 
could be saved in this city by a thoroughly organized public health cam- 
paign such as the organization we have suggested would make possible. 
If your Federation can convince the city authorities of the facts the funds 
will be forthcoming, and New Haven will be given a health department 
thoroughly adequate for modern needs and full of beneficent possibilities 
for the health and welfare of her citizens. 

Respectfully yours, 

C.-E. A. WINSLOW. 
April 1, 1917. 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 



A. INTRODUCTORY 



The City and Its Population ..... 15 

Topography and Climate . . . . . . 18 

B. THE SANITARY CONDITION OF THE CITY 

The Homes of New Haven 20 

Problems of Industrial Hygiene ..... 26 

The Public Water Supply 30 

Sewerage and Sewage Disposal ..... 33 

Collection and Disposal of Garbage and Refuse . . 39 

The Fly Problem 43 

Mosquitoes and Malaria ...... 45 

C. HEALTH ORGANIZATION OF THE CITY 

General Form of City Government .... 50 

The Board of Health, Its Duties and Powers ... 50 

The Sanitary Code ....... 52 

Organization of the Department ..... 53 

Inspection of Nuisances . . . . . . 56 

Supervision of Food Supplies ..... 58 

Supervision of Milk Supply . . . . . . 60 

Control of Communicable Diseases . . . . . 66 

The Health Department Laboratory .... 72 

Vital Statistics 74 

Prevention of Infant Mortality ..... 75 

Medical School Inspection . ... . . .79 

Sanitation of School Buildings ..... 83 

Control of Tuberculosis ...... 85 

Problems of Venereal Disease ..... 89 

Mental Hygiene . . . . . . . 91 

Public Health Education 92 

The Health Department Budget ... 93 



8 Health Survey of New Haven 

D. VITAL STATISTICS OF NEW HAVEN PAGE 

The General Death Rate 96 

Infant Mortality . . . . . . . 98 

Acute Communicable Diseases of Childhood ... 99 
Diphtheria . . . . . . . . 101 

Typhoid Fever . .102 

Tuberculosis .104 

The Cause of the Excessive Death Rate of New Haven . 105 

The Problem of Pneumonia 106 

Cancer . . . . . . .109 

Organic Disorders of Adult Life . . . . . 110 

Is New Haven's Health Task Accomplished? ... Ill 



RECOMMENDATIONS 

Recommendation I. That the Committee on Tenement House Condi- 
tions of the Civic Federation investigate the present Housing Laws of 
Connecticut and consider the advisability of strengthening them along 
the lines of the Model Housing Law, or of supplementing them by more 
exacting municipal ordinances, particularly so as to guard against lot 
overcrowding, dark halls and dark toilets, in new buildings, and to provide 
for adequate fire escapes in both new and old buildings. 

Recommendation II. That the Committee on Tenement House Condi- 
tions of the Civic Federation inaugurate a systematic campaign for the 
widest possible extension of the activities of The Improved Housing 
Association to the end of providing through private endowment for more 
model homes ; and that the Committee give consideration to the possibility 
of securing from the city government appropriations for municipal tene- 
ments such as have been so successfully operated by European munici- 
palities. 

Recommendation III. That the Civic Federation organize a new Com- 
mittee on Industrial Hygiene to study the question of securing adequate 
protection for industrial workers against occupational poisonings, and 
the dangers of bad ventilation, industrial dusts and other insanitary fac- 
tory conditions, and present to the Legislature of 1918 a plan for securing 
these ends ; and we suggest that this committee should also direct its atten- 
tion to the importance of having appointments in the present Department 
of Labor made on a merit basis after civil service examination. 

Recommendation IV. That the movement for a system of Health 
Insurance in Connecticut should receive the earnest consideration of the 
Civic Federation as an important step toward the prevention of occupa- 
tional and other diseases. 

Recommendation V. That steps be taken to secure at all times the 
complete safety of the New Haven water by providing for the treatment 
by chlorination of the Saltonstall, Wintergreen and Maltby supplies. 

Recommendation VI. That an ordinance be passed requiring all privies 
to be tightly constructed, screened against flies, and maintained in a sani- 
tary condition; and that a special inspector be detailed to supervise the 
enforcement of these regulations. 

Recommendation VII. That pending the treatment of the city sewage 
the taking of shellfish from the harbor of New Haven be prohibited 
except under such precautions as will ensure adequate purification before 
they are used as food. 



jo Health Survey of New Haven 

Recommendation VIII. That pehding the treatment of the city sewage 
bathing be prohibited in the more grossly polluted portions of the harbor, 
the limits of the prohibited area to be defined by the Board of Health. 

Recommendation IX. That so soon as the experiments on sewage dis- 
posal are completed the sewage of the city should be treated as promptly 
as possible by such means as seem best adapted to eliminate local nui- 
sances and render the harbor waters safe for bathing and for the taking 
of shellfish. 

Recommendation X. That the present system of garbage collection 
should be improved so as actually to secure in all sections of the city the 
regular and frequent removals now called for by agreements with con- 
tractors ; and that a regular public system of collection be instituted for 
other classes of refuse. 

Recommendation XL That in the drainage operations planned for 1917 
the fresh water areas which are likely to breed malarial mosquitoes (such 
as those in Beaver Swamp, on the shores of West River and of Lake 
Whitney, and in East Haven) should receive first attention. 

Recommendation XII. That the Board of Health modify its regula- 
tion in regard to mosquito breeding receptacles so as to declare any 
accumulation of stagnant water in which mosquitoes breed to be a public 
nuisance. 

Recommendation XIII. That the Board of Health adopt a regulation 
declaring malaria to be a notifiable disease and that provision be made for 
investigating each case as reported in order to determine the existence of 
local foci of infection. 

Recommendation XIV. That Section 95 of the Charter Act be amended 
so as to provide that the Board of Health shall appoint the Health Officer 
and determine the general policies of the department, while the conduct of 
administrative details shall be entrusted to the Health Officer, and all 
appointments of other employees shall be made by him under the rules of 
the Civil Service Board. 

Recommendation XV. That the Board of Health prepare and adopt 
a comprehensive and up-to-date Sanitary Code; and that the Health 
Committee of the Civic Federation urge upon the Board of Aldermen the 
propriety of permitting to the Board the free exercise of this power 
within the legitimate field of public health, unhampered by aldermanic 
ordinances. 

Recommendation XVI. That the need for adequate quarters for the 
Department of Health be vigorously urged upon the proper city 
authorities. 

Recommendation XVII. That the Board of Aldermen take such 
action as may be necessary to place responsibility for the inspection and 



Health Survey of New Haven n 

control of ordinary nuisances, such as are due to accumulation of rubbish 
in vacant lots, yards and the like and the investigation of complaints 
relating thereto, in the hands of the police department, so that the in- 
spectors of the health department may devote their attention to the prob- 
lems of fly and mosquito control, the protection of privy vaults, the im- 
provement of housing conditions, and other matters bearing more directly 
upon health. 

Recommendation XVIII. That the Farm Inspector, the Milk Inspector, 
the two Food Inspectors, the four Sanitary Inspectors (excluding the one 
assigned to communicable disease work) and the Tenement House In- 
spector be organized as a Bureau of Inspection, with a Chief or Super- 
vising Inspector at a salary of $2000, to be chosen by competitive examina- 
tion from the ranks of the present staff. 

Recommendation XIX. That the Civic Federation through some 
appropriate committee consider the question of the adequacy of the staff 
of the City Attorney's office to the present needs of the city, and the 
advisability of taking steps to secure the appointment of an additional 
assistant in that office. 

Recommnedation XX. That provision should be made in the Sanitary 
Code for requiring the medical examination of food handlers along the 
general lines of the New York City Ordinance upon this subject. 

Recommendation XXI. That steps should be taken to provide a 
municipal slaughterhouse within the city limits and that regulations be 
included in the Sanitary Code prohibiting the sale of meat which has not 
been passed at the time of slaughter by either Federal inspectors or those 
of the local department of health. 

Recommendation XXII. That provision be made for the systematic 
bacteriological examination of all milk sold in New Haven, for the 
determination of the numbers of bacteria contained therein. 

Recommendation XXIII. That a regulation be passed defining pas- 
teurization as heating to at least 140 for at least 30 minutes, and that 
provision be made for systematic and frequent inspection of pasteurizing 
plants to see that these conditions are attained. 

Recommendation XXIV. That all milk sold in New Haven be graded 
and labeled according to the general plan that has been followed by the 
New York State Department of Health and other official bodies. 

Recommendation XXV. That every possible effort be made to secure 
as rapidly as may be feasible the pasteurization by the method defined 
above of all milk not of certified grade, under the supervision and control 
of the Board of Health. 

Recommendation XXVI. That special efforts be made to call to the 
attention of the medical profession the importance of prompt reporting of 



12 Health Survey of New Haven 

all cases of communicable disease and to secure the vigorous enforcement 
of the law which requires such notification. 

Recommendation XXVII. That the opportunities for hospital isolation 
offered by the Isolation Building of the New Haven Hospital be more 
fully utilized, and that cases of typhoid fever be hospitalized whenever 
they cannot be properly cared for at home. 

Recommendation XXVIII. That the promising policies of the De- 
partment of Health in the treatment of carriers be continued, but that 
they be supplemented by such measures of control of frank cases and 
contacts as are generally considered wise and necessary by recognized 
sanitary authorities. 

Recommendation XXIX. That information disseminated to the 
general public through the medium of the annual report, monthly bulletin 
and other publications of the Department of Health be confined to those 
scientific facts which are generally accepted by competent leaders in the 
fields of medicine and public health, novel and controversial opinions 
being presented to the proper audience through the medium of the 
scientific press. 

Recommendation XXX. That Dr. Lewis be relieved of responsibility 
for the laboratory of the Health Department and permitted to devote him- 
self to the problems of communicable disease control; and that he be 
provided with a public health nurse at $1000 and a clerk at $600 for the 
adequate prosecution of this work. 

Recommendation XXXI. That the Department of Health undertake a 
vigorous educational campaign among physicians and the general public 
in the interest of a more general and more prompt use of diphtheria anti- 
toxin and a wider protection of the public against typhoid and smallpox 
by the use of vaccines. 

Recommendation XXXII. That the laboratory work of the Department 
of Health be separated from the medical work of communicable disease 
control and placed under the direction of a bacteriologist at $2000 with 
an assistant chemist at $1200 and the present technician to assist him; 
that the work of the laboratory be reorganized along the generally ac- 
cepted lines of standard procedure and expanded as rapidly as possible to 
include quantitative bacteriological examination of milk, Wassermann 
tests, examination for typhoid carriers, and identification of pneumococcal 
types for assistance in the administration of sera. 

Recommendatior^ XXXIII. That the office of Registrar of Vital Sta- 
tistics be abolished and that a statistician at $2000 and a clerk at $1000 
be added to the staff of the Department of Health. 

Recommendation XXXIV. That the vital statistics published in the 
annual report of the Department of Health be extended and modified so 



Health Survey of New Haven 15 

as to present the fundamental data generally recognized as essential by 
vital statisticians. 

Recommendation XXXV. That a definite plan for cooperation in the 
summer campaign against infant mortality be worked out by conference 
between the Department of Health and the Infant Welfare Association. 

Recommendation XXXVI. That the city appropriate the sum of $3000 
annually to be expended by the Infant Welfare Association and the Visit- 
ing Nurse Association for the establishment of an additional station and 
for further Infant Welfare work, particularly along the lines of prenatal 
care and the organization of Little Mothers' Leagues. 

Recommendation XXXVII. That an obstetrical nurse at a salary of 
$1200 be added to the staff of the Department of Health to supervise the 
work of registered mid wives. 

Recommendation XXXVIII. That the work of medical school inspec- 
tion be reorganized and expanded along the lines laid down in this report, 
to include the organization of medical clinics, with the provision of the 
following new appointees in addition to the present staff : a Medical Su- 
pervisor at $2500 ; a Supervising Nurse at $2000 ; two clinic nurses at 
$850 each ; a clerk at $750 ; an additional dentist at $1000 ; and an addi- 
tional dentist's assistant at $400. 

Recommendation XXXIX. That the Department of Health adopt 
vigorous measures for the control of the willfully careless consumptive, by 
forcible control when necessary, along the lines adopted in dealing with 
other forms of communicable disease. 

Recommendation XL. That the city appropriate $3000 a year for 
extending the work of the Visiting Nurse Association in the care and 
prevention of tuberculosis and $2000 a year for the maintenance of the 
Day Camp ; and that pending such an arrangement every effort be made 
to maintain the Day Camp through the generosity of private individuals. 

Recommendation XLI. That there be added to the staff of the De- 
partment of Health a competent physician trained in anti-tuberculosis 
work (at a salary of $2500) to supervise and coordinate and develop the 
campaign against this disease along the most effective lines. 

Recommendation XLII. That the Board of Health undertake an 
organized educational campaign among physicians in regard to the prompt 
diagnosis and notification of venereal diseases, and prepare a circular in 
regard to the prevention and cure of these diseases for distribution to 
those whom it might benefit. 

Recommendation XLII I. That the Civic Federation organize a com- 
mittee on Social Hygiene to study the general problems of venereal dis- 
ease in New Haven, to raise funds for the provision of salvarsan treat- 
ment and for the extension of clinical facilities, particularly on the social 



14 Health Survey of New Haven 

service side, and to take part in the state-wide educational movement now 
in progress in regard to the broader "problems of social hygiene. 

Recommendation XLIV. That the public health education work of the 
Department of Health be extended and amplified, especially with refer- 
ence to the control of the constitutional diseases of adult life, and par- 
ticularly by the fullest possible use of the resources of the daily press. 

Recommendation XLV. That the budget of the New Haven Health 
Department be increased from $40,000 to $74,000, so as to make possible 
the various extensions of its activities specified in earlier recommenda- 
tions. 



HEALTH SURVEY OF NEW HAVEN, 
CONNECTICUT 

A Report Presented to the Civic Federation of New Haven 

by 

C.-E. A. Winslow, James C. Greenway and David Greenberg 
Yale School of Medicine 



A. INTRODUCTORY 



The City and Its Population 

New Haven was incorporated as a city in 1784 with a population of a 
little over 3000. It was for a time one of the foremost shipping ports of 
the country until the Embargo Act of 1807 and the War of 1812 checked 
development along this line. The Joint Stock Corporation Act of 1837, 
however, furnished a stimulus to industrial enterprise and the growth of 
New Haven as an industrial center was well under way, fifty years or 
more ago, Eli Whitney's gun factory, the clock company and the rubber 
shop being the leading establishments. 

The railroad to New York, completed in 1849, was an important factor 
in the development of the city; and the location in New Haven of the 
general offices of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Com- 
pany has made the railroad a doubly significant factor in the life of the 
community. Industrial production has largely followed the historical lines 
of firearms, clocks, carriages, rubber goods, hardware and corsets, most 
of which were initiated fifty years ago, the munition trades in particular 
having undergone a phenomenal development during the past two years. 
Brickmaking and oyster culture are also important industries of New 
Haven and its surrounding suburbs. 

The presence of Yale University has for two centuries been a significant 
factor in the social and economic life of the community. 



7(5 Health Survey of New Haven 

The population of New Haven rose from 5157 in 1800 to 22,529 in 
1850, 50,840 in 1870, 85,981 in 1890, 108,027 in 1900 and 133,605 in 1910. 
Using the census method of calculation, which assumes a direct arith- 
metical progression, the estimated population for July 1, 1916, would be 
149,685. It seems certain that the great development of the munitions 
industry in the past two years has led to a greater addition of population 
than the annual increment of 2590 estimated by the Census Bureau. Dr. 
F. W. Wright, the Health Officer of New IJaven, on the basis of informa- 
tion furnished by some of the larger employers of labor, estimated that 
5000 operatives came to the city in 1915 of whom one-fourth brought their 
families with them. We are informed that 4200 new hands were taken 
on in one factory in 1915 and 3500 in 1916. The city directory offers 
corroborative evidence of abnormal growth during the past two years. 
The average annual increment of names in this publication between 1910 
and 1914 was 1660, while the list increased by 2869 names in 1915 and by 
3078 names in 1916. 

On the other hand it is known that many of the operatives attracted 
by recent industrial developments reside in surrounding suburbs; and of 
those who do live in New Haven a majority are unaccompanied by their 
families. The school records do not indicate any abnormal addition to the 
child population. The average annual increase in the average number of 
children registered between 1910-11 and 1914-15 was 690, while the 
increase for 1915-16 was 813. The population of 149,685 derived by the 
census method of calculation is almost certainly too low, but since the 
excess population is largely made up of persons at an age when the death 
rate is not large and the practice of estimating population on any other 
than the regular arithmetical basis is in general so liable to abuse, we have 
deemed it best to use the conservative figure in all subsequent calcula- 
tions. It is very probable, however, that the death rates so calculated may 
be from half a point to a point per thousand too high. 

The age and race composition of the population of New Haven as 
compared with the urban population of the Registration Area of the 
United States is shown in the tables below. The data are for 1910 and 
are derived from the reports of the United States Census. The influx 
of population since 1914 has been predominantly of young adults, at first, 
as we are informed, largely of native and English stock, with more 
recent increments of Poles and of native and Portuguese negroes. 

The age distribution of the population of New Haven in 1910 (see 
Table I) was of a nature distinctly unfavorable to a low death rate, an 
unusually large proportion of its population being in the age groups of 
high mortality under 5 and over 45 years. 

New Haven has a high proportion of population of foreign or mixed 



Health Survey of New Haven 17 

parentage and a very high proportion ( 32 per cent, against 23 per cent for 
the cities of the Registration Area) of foreign nativity. The principal 
foreign stocks represented (indicated in Table II below) are Italian 
(31 per cent), Irish (21 per cent), and Russian (19 per cent). The first 
and last of these as shown in a recent study by L. I. Dublin* are char- 
acterized by death rates practically as low as those of the native born. 
The Irish race in America, on the other hand, generally shows a markedly 
excessive death rate, and the presence of this racial group in such large 
numbers is a distinctly unfavorable factor from the standpoint of 
probable mortality. 



TABLE I 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF THE POPULATION OF NEW HAVEN IN 1910 COMPARED 
WITH THE TOTAL URBAN POPULATION OF THE REGISTRATION AREA 

NEW HAVEN 



Ages 

All .. 
Under 
5-14 ., 
15-24 
25-44 
45-64 , 
65+ ., 



Native white . Foreign- 
All Native Foreign or born 
Classes parentage mixed parentage white Negro 

100.0 28.2 37.0 31.9 2.6 

10.3 2.8 7.0 0.2 0.2 
18.1 5.4 10.4 1.9 0.4 
18.9 5.1 7.5 5.9 0.5 

32.4 8.0 8.7 14.6 1.1 
15.8 4.9 3.1 7.3 0.4 

4.3 2.0 0.3 1.9 0.1 



Ages 
All 

Under 5 
5-14 ... 
15-24 .. 
25-44 .. 
45-64 .. 
65+ ... 



UNITED STATES URBAN 



All 
Classes 

100.0 

9.8 

17.3 

20.0 

33.2 

15.2 

4.0 



Native white 


Foreign- 


Native 


Foreign or 


born 


parentage 


mixed parentage 


white 


41.6 


28.9 


22.6 


4.7 


4.3 


0.2 


8.2 


6.9 


0.1 


8.6 


6.3 


3.9 


12.5 


8.0 


10.2 


5.8 


3.1 


5.4 


1.8 


0.3 


1.7 



Negro 

6.3 
0.5 
1.1 
1.4 
2.3 
0.8 
0.2 



* American Economic Review, VI, 3, September, 1916. 



i8 Health Survey of New Haven 

TABLE II 

ORIGINAL NATIONALITY OF FOREIGN-BORN POPULATION 

New Haven Registration Area 

Austria 2.6 8.7 

Canada, French 1.1 

Canada, other 2.0 6.0 

England, Scotland and Wales 6.2 9.0 

France 0.4 0.9 

Germany 9.6 18.5 

Greece 0.2 0.7 

Hungary 1.1 3.7 

Ireland 21.0 10.0 

Italy 30.7 9.9 

Netherlands and Belgium 0.4 1.2 

Norway, Sweden, Denmark 4.5 9.3 

Russia, including Finland 18.7 12.8 

Turkey 0.4 0.7 

All others . 1.3 5.6 



Topography and Climate 

New Haven occupies an area of 11,460 acres, to the north and along 
the east shore of New Haven harbor (see Fig. 1). It includes fifteen 
wards, the first twelve of them, constituting a rather compact roughly 
circular area west of the Quinnipiac River, representing the city as it was 
prior to 1897. Ward 13 (Westville) lies to the northwest of the rest of 
the city, while Wards 14 and 15 (Fair Haven) border the east shore of 
the Quinnipiac and the harbor. The last three wards, as will be noted 
later, retain a measure of independent local self-government. 

The city is situated on a generally level plan with ranges of hills on 
the east and west close to the city, and on the north at a slightly greater 
distance. The soil is sandy, the underlying rock deposits lying from two 
to one hundred feet below the surface. 

The following data as to climatic conditions have been courteously 
furnished by Mr. L. M. Tarr, Ix>cal Forecaster of the United States 
Weather Bureau. The mean temperature for the year is 50 F. The 
mean temperature for January is 27 and for July 72, giving a seasonal 
range of 45 between the coldest and hottest months. The daily range 
of temperature is 16. Extreme and sudden changes are rare. There 
have never been more than three days in succession with temperatures 
below zero or more than four days in succession with temperatures above 
90. The mean temperatures for New Haven lie as would be expected 
between those for New York and Boston. 




FIG. I 
THE WARDS OF THE CITY 



Health Survey of New Haven 19 

The average annual precipitation for New Haven is 47.2 inches, 2 A 
inches more than for Boston and 3.5 inches more than for New York. 
The mean relative humidity at 8 a.m. is 76 per cent of saturation, the 
same as for New York and 3 per cent more than for Boston. The 8 
p.m. observations on the other hand are distinctly higher for New Haven 
as indicated below. 

RELATIVE HUMIDITY AT 8 P.M. 

New Haven New York Boston 

Winter 72 71 70 

Summer 79 71 73 

Year 74 71 71 

The greater amount of precipitation in New Haven is due to the impact 
of winds coming from the south along the coast and striking the shore of 
Connecticut as it extends across their path to the eastward. The high 
relative humidity is in part due to the same cause, and in part perhaps 
to the steady but moderate winds which prevail, particularly from the sea. 

The hills which surround the city shelter it to some extent from strong 
winds but tend to produce moderate breezes from the sound by the rising 
of the air which becomes warmed in the enclosed area between them. 
The prevailing direction of the wind is from the northwest, the average 
wind velocity for 1910-14 being 9.1 miles per hour. The reported 
velocities for Boston and New York are much higher, 10.6 and 15.5 miles, 
respectively, although these figures are not strictly comparable since the 
Boston and New York instruments are located at a greater elevation above 
the ground. 

New Haven then has a climate typical of the New England coast, its 
local peculiarities being a somewhat higher precipitation, higher atmos- 
pheric humidity and lower wind velocity than normal. 



20 Health Survey of New Haven 



B. THE SANITARY CONDITION OF THE CITY 

The Homes of New Haven 

The housing problem has for some years received the serious attention 
of public-spirited citizens of New Haven, and particularly of the Civic 
Federation. Document No. 6 of the Civic Federation series (Improved 
Housing for Wage Earners, January, 1911) and Document No. 12 (Hous- 
ing Conditions in New Haven, by Carol Aronovici, October, 1913) deal 
directly with this subject; while Document No. 11 (An Industrial Survey 
of a New Haven District, by H. P. Fairchild, April, 1913) and Document 
No. 14 (Living Conditions Among Negroes in the Ninth Ward, New 
Haven, by C. W. Burton, December, 1913) bear upon it less directly. 

Document No. 6 contains a forceful statement by Mr. Lawrence 
Veiller, Secretary of the National Housing Association, following a cur- 
sory inspection of certain local housing conditions in July, 1910 ; while Dr. 
Aronovici's report includes the results of a somewhat extensive housing 
survey made in 1912. Mr. Veiller emphasizes the evils of dirty back 
yards due to inadequate garbage collection, of outside privy vaults, of 
cellar dwellings and overcrowding. Dr. Aronovici stressed particularly 
room congestion, defective fire escapes, and insanitary toilet facilities. 
He showed that room overcrowding in the tenement districts of New 
Haven (138 persons per 100 rooms) was more acute than in similar 
districts in Fall River, Buffalo and Stamford, and less serious than in 
Waterbury, while the average rent per room was higher in New Haven 
($2.67 per room) than in either of the other four cities used for compari- 
son. Of fire escapes Dr. Aronovici says: "The adequacy of the fire 
escapes where provided must be seriously challenged, and in the cases 
where provisions are made they were found to be in a very serious condi- 
tion of neglect and disrepair. Out of a total of 77 buildings in which fire 
escapes were provided, 22 were found seriously deficient." Of the toilets 
examined 43 per cent were found to be "dirty" and 7 per cent "filthy" ; 
32 per cent were recorded as "gloomy" and 33 per cent as "dark" ; three- 
fifths were poorly ventilated or not ventilated at all. 

New Haven has at present in round numbers 3200 tenement houses 
located principally in Wards 3, 5, 6 and 7, and more recently in Ward 9, 
in the vicinity of the Winchester Repeating Arms Company. The popu- 
lation per acre in 1915 was 54.6 in Ward 7, 38.9 in Ward 6, 33.2 in Ward 
3, between 18.9 and 28.5 in the other wards of the older city and between 
1.7 and 2.6 in Wards 13, 14 and 15. 

Housing conditions in Connecticut are mainly governed by two acts 



Health Survey of New Haven 21 

called The Tenement House Act and An Act Concerning Sanitary Con- 
ditions in Tenement Lodging and Boarding Houses. These acts were 
passed in 1911 and amended and strengthened in 1913 as a result of Dr. 
Aronovici's report and the activity of the Civic Federation of New 
Haven. The first of these acts (Chapter 241, Acts of 1911, amended by 
Chapter 23, Acts of 1913), which deals mainly with structural conditions, 
is in most respects still very far behind the standard set in the Model 
Tenement House Law prepared by Mr. Lawrence Veiller of the National 
Housing Association. Thus the Connecticut law permits 90 per cent of 
a corner lot and 70-75 per cent of other lots to be built upon instead of 
80 per cent and 60 per cent, respectively, specified in the Model Law ; and 
there is no limitation at all set upon houses running from one street to 
another on a lot 100 feet or less in depth. The yards behind a two-story 
house may be 11 feet deep against a minimum of 15 feet in the Model Law, 
and an outer court may be 4 feet in width for a two-story house against a 
minimum of 10 feet in the Model Law. The Connecticut law specifies 
that each apartment shall contain one room of at least 120 square feet floor 
area and that other rooms shall have at least 70 square feet floor area and 
that the height of rooms shall be 8 feet 6 inches ; the corresponding figures 
in the Model Law are 150 feet, 90 feet and 9 feet, respectively. The 
section of the Connecticut law dealing with the natural lighting of halls is 
particularly weak, there being practically no requirement for the upper 
two stories of a three-story building. The provision in regard to water 
closets is also unsatisfactory since it requires one water closet only to be 
provided for two apartments of less than three rooms each. Furthermore 
it permits the opening of the toilet room upon a dark shaft with light only 
from other rooms in the apartment. The Model Law requires, and 
decency and sanitation demand, that toilets should be provided within 
each apartment, and that all should have windows opening on street, yard 
or court. 

The law in regard to fire escapes (Sections 2628 and 2629 of the General 
Statutes and Chapter 10, Public Acts, 1909, as amended by Chapter 239, 
Public Acts, 1911) is also unsatisfactory as regards buildings of three 
stories in height or less, since for such buildings it does not require any 
fire escape if there are two interior stairways in the building and does 
not specify the nature of the outside fire escape, if any. The Model Law 
requires and safety demands fireproof outside stairways or outside stair- 
way and balcony fire escapes of stone, concrete or iron. 

The Act concerning Sanitary Conditions in Tenements (Chapter 220, 
Acts of 1911, amended by Chapter 29, Acts of 1913) contains the fol- 
lowing very broad provision which might apparently be made the basis 
for sweeping action, in regard to sanitary conditions in existing buildings. 



22 Health Survey of New Haven 

"Whenever any tenement, lodging, or boarding house, or any building, 
structure, excavation, business pursuit, matter, or thing in or about such 
house or the lot on which it is situated, or the plumbing, sewerage, drain- 
age, light, or ventilation of such house, is, in the opinion of the Board of 
Health, in a condition which is, or in its effects is, dangerous or detri- 
mental to life or health, said board may declare that the same, to the 
extent specified by said board, is a public nuisance, and may order the 
same to be removed, abated, suspended, altered, or otherwise improved 
or purified, as the order shall specify. The Board of Health may also 
order or cause any tenement house, or part thereof, or any excavation, 
building, structure, sewer, plumbing pipe, passage, premises, ground, 
matter, or thing in or about a tenement, lodging, or boarding house, or 
the lot on which such house is situated, to be purified, cleansed, disin- 
fected, removed, altered, repaired, or improved. If any order of the 
Board of Health is not complied with, or so far complied with as said 
board shall regard as reasonable, within five days after the service thereof, 
or within such shorter time as said board shall designate, then such order 
may be executed by such board, through its officers, agents, employees, or 
contractors, and the expense thereof shall be collected from the owner 
by an action in the name of the city, borough, or town." 

Other specific provisions in the Act provide in strong terms for cleanli- 
ness, require a supply of water on every floor (where water pipes are 
accessible) and adequate and suitable privy vaults and water closets for 
every two apartments of three rooms or less and one for every apartment 
of four or more rooms. 

In regard to the lighting of halls the Act is weak, only requiring that 
the owner shall "provide for the lighting of all public halls at night," a 
provision sometimes complied with by placing a candle or an oil lamp in 
the hallway, a dangerous proceeding from the standpoint of fire risk, if 
the candle or lamp were lighted. The Model Law requires that "a proper 
light shall be kept burning by the owner in the public hallways, near the 
stairs, upon the entrance floor and upon the second floor above the 
entrance floor of said house, every night from sunset to sunrise through- 
out the year, and upon all other floors of the said house from sunset until 
ten o'clock in the evening." With this exception, however, the law 
governing maintenance of existing tenements seems to be a reasonably 
satisfactory one. 

An important step toward a higher standard of housing was taken in 
March, 1916, by an amendment to Section 224 of the Municipal Ordi- 
nances of New Haven prohibiting the construction of frame tenements 
of three stories (three decker tenements). During the four years, 1912- 
15, permits were issued for 505 tenements for three or more families 




FIG. II 

A CASE OF LOT OVERCROWDING 
In the house on the right there is one inte- 
rior room, opening on the narrow slit between 
the two buildings, and another completely dark 
room with no window at all. 




FIG. Ill 

AN OLD DWKLLING HOUSE CONVERTED 
INTO A TENEMENT 

A single hall water closet serves for twenty 
people 



Health Survey of New Haven 23 

of which 422, or 84 per cent, were frame dwellings, while of the 163 
such houses built during the last of these years, 1915, 153, or 94 per cent, 
were frame. As Dr. Wright, Health Officer of New Haven, pointed out 
at this time, frame tenements are not only more dangerous from the 
standpoint of fire risk, but since they involve a smaller investment they 
are much less likely to be well equipped and maintained from a sanitary 
standpoint. 

In regard to the general housing problem and particularly in regard 
to the actual conditions in 1916, we have had the assistance of Mr. L. S. 
Kelley of Yale College, to whom we wish to express our appreciation of ' 
his valuable services. Mr. Kelley visited some 200 tenements, and 49 
houses containing 280 tenements were personally inspected by two of 
us (C.-E. A. W. and D. G.). General lot overcrowding does not appear 
as yet to be serious except in a few instances (see Fig. 2) ; and rooms as 
a rule are well lighted and ventilated. Serious evils of this kind will, 
however, undoubtedly arise in the future as the city grows, evils not 
fully guarded against by the somewhat lax provision of Chapter 23 of the 
Laws of 1913. Dark hallways are far too common, particularly in the 
old buildings. Thus in the Sixth Ward, 4 buildings out of 11 had dark 
halls and in the Second Ward, 8 out of 19, while halls in 19 houses in 
the Ninth Ward were all well lighted. Common hall toilets instead of 
toilets in the apartments are almost universal in the older houses and 
many of them are almost wholly dark, as shown by the table below. 

With Dark 
Toilets 

39 

21 

Some of the worst conditions are found, as would naturally be expected, 
in old dwelling houses which have been converted into tenements without 
necessary structural changes (see Fig. 3). 

Dark hallways offer direct incentives to immorality. Hall toilets, even 
when provided with a window of translucent glass opening on the stairs 
or on a room and with the ventilating shaft of 36 square inches area 
required by the law, are frequently almost wholly dark and when dark 
are naturally often in so filthy a condition as to constitute a serious 
menace to the public health. 

The other very serious defect noted was the lack of adequate fire 
escapes. As indicated below, a large proportion of houses have no outside 
stairway or fire escape at all, and most of the remainder are equipped 
only with outside balconies and wooden stairways. The inspection of 



Ward 2 ... 


Total apartments 
inspected 

. . 124 


With Hall 
Toilets 

74 


Ward 6 


52 


40 


Ward 9 . 


104 


24 



24 Health Survey of New Haven 

tenements for fire escapes is in the hands of the Building Inspector, and 
he reports the erection of more than 400 new fire escapes in 1915. Under 
the provisions of the state law, however, it does not appear possible to 
require proper outside fire escapes of iron for the three-story buildings, 
which constitute the bulk of New Haven tenements. 

Total With no outside With wooden 



Ward 2 
Ward 6 
Ward 9 



apartments 
inspected 


fire escapes 
or stairways 


outside 
stairways 


124 


40 


60 


52 


. 48 





104 


56 


18 



Conditions in regard to room overcrowding can only be determined by 
night inspections. Mr. J. J. O'Donnell, Tenement House Inspector, 
informs us that such inspections, as made by him, have failed to reveal any 
serious conditions of this kind, and information gathered from various 
other sources tends to support the view that even the recent great addi- 
tions to the industrial population of New Haven have been absorbed 
without serious difficulty. The male lodging house problem has never 
become a grave one in this city. 

One of the most important results of the Civic Federation movement 
of 1913 was the appointment of a Tenement House Inspector under the 
Board of Health to devote his whole time to the supervision of housing 
conditions. Mr. J. J. O'Donnell has held this position for the past three 
years. We have had ample opportunity to observe his methods and to 
study the very careful records kept. In 1915, 7946 houses were inspected 
(amounting to a semiannual inspection for each house), 2321 new orders 
were issued, 2221 old orders complied with, 244 new toilets installed, 312 
old toilets ventilated, and 1165 night inspections made in regard to the 
lighting of halls. We have been impressed with Mr. O'Donnell's tact 
and efficiency and with the cooperative spirit his educational efforts have 
called forth. 

Conditions are by no means ideal in the tenements of New Haven. It 
must be remembered, however, that housing conditions form merely the 
most obvious aspect of the general problem of poverty which cannot be 
solved in any easy way. Twenty-five hundred of the 3200 tenement 
houses in New Haven were built prior to the Tenement House Law of 
1913 and economic considerations make it impossible to remodel existing 
tenements in any radical degree. So far as the sanitary conditions in 
existing tenements go, we are inclined to believe that Chapter 29 of the 
Acts of 1913 is reasonably adequate and that its enforcement is as 
thorough as could practically be expected. The Board of Health should, 



Health Survey of New Haven 25 

however, be provided with a larger appropriation for the summary abate- 
ment of grave nuisances in order to avoid legal delays imposed by a few 
stubborn offenders. We feel that the clause in relation to the lighting 
of halls is unsatisfactory and that the failure to require outside iron fire 
escapes on three-story tenements involves serious danger. The main 
thing is to control the future and to guard against the indefinite perpetua- 
tion of bad housing conditions. This, it seems to us, the Tenement 
House Law governing the construction of new buildings does not 
adequately ensure. It is always a complex problem to know just how far 
one may safely go in such matters, but we feel that the possibility of 
strengthening the housing laws should receive serious consideration. We 
therefore make the following recommendation. 

Recommendation I. That the Committee on Tenement House Condi- 
tions of the Civic Federation investigate the present Housing Laws of 
Connecticut and consider the advisability of strengthening them along 
the lines of the Model Housing Law, or of supplementing them by more 
exacting municipal ordinances, particularly so as to guard against lot 
overcrowding, dark halls and dark toilets, in new buildings, and to provide 
for adequate fire escapes in both new and old buildings. 

The elimination of bad housing conditions is of little value if better 
substitutes are not provided; and legal regulation should go hand in hand 
with an organized effort to provide model homes. The most important 
step yet taken in New Haven along this line was the organization as a 
result of the Civic Federation agitation of 1913 of The Improved Housing 
Association and the construction of a group of model homes at the corner 
of View and Willow Streets. The block includes eight two-family houses, 
each apartment containing a living room, two bedrooms, a kitchenette, a 
bathroom and sleeping porch, with cellar storage rooms (see Fig. 5). 
Rentals are $12 a month. The Improved Housing Association is incor- 
porated with a capital of $50,000 and dividends are limited to 5 per cent. 
Dividends of 4 per cent were paid during the first year and of 4^ per cent 
during the second year. We believe this plan of providing ideal housing 
conditions on a basis of moderate interest return offers the ideal solution 
of the housing problem ; but many hundreds of such houses are required, 
not sixteen; and in particular there is need for tenements which will 
accommodate at a moderate rental larger families than can be provided 
for in the View and Willow Street block. We therefore make the 
following : 

Recommendation II. That the Committee on Tenement House Condi- 
tions of the Civic Federation inaugurate a systematic campaign for the 
widest possible extension of the activities of The Improved Housing 
Association to the end of providing through private endowment for more 



26 Health Survey of New Haven 

model homes; and that the Committee give consideration to the possibility 
of securing from the city government appropriations for municipal tene- 
ments such as have been so successfully operated by European munici- 
palities. 

Problems of Industrial Hygiene 

According to the returns of the thirteenth census, New Haven had in 
1909 sixteen different industries, each with an annual output valued at 
over a million dollars. These were as follows: The manufacture of 
automobiles, including bodies and parts ; boots and shoes, including cut 
stock and findings; boots and shoes, rubber; boxes, fancy and paper; 
bread and other bakery products; clocks and watches, including cases 
and material ; confectionery ; corsets ; firearms and ammunition ; foundry 
and machine shop products ; gas, illuminating and heating ; malt liquors ; 
printing and publishing; rubber goods; slaughtering and meat packing; 
and tobacco manufactures. 

Of these the manufacture of firearms and ammunition and of foundry 
and machine products which are by far the largest would be expected to 
contribute a considerable, quota of industrial accidents. The making of 
munitions, rubber boots and shoes and of other rubber goods, and the 
smaller industries of brass and bronze (7 establishments in 1909) and 
electroplating (3 establishments in 1909) involve the use of dangerous 
industrial poisons. Grinding and buffing, processes which are in use in 
many of the industries mentioned, cutlery and tool making (6 establish- 
ments in 1909) and marble and stone work (10 establishments in 1909) 
unless special precautions are taken, expose the workers to the inhalation 
of hard dust particles which form an important predisposing cause of 
industrial tuberculosis, while printers and tobacco workers are likely to 
suffer from an excessive incidence of this disease as a result of general 
bad ventilation and a continuous stooping posture while at work. 

It is, of course, quite impossible without exhaustive special studies to 
obtain any idea of the amount of industrial tuberculosis in a given locality. 
All that can be said is that judging from broad statistical evidence and 
experience elsewhere the risks in the industries mentioned must be con- 
siderable except in shops which have introduced the most modern systems 
of prevention. As to industrial poisonings we are somewhat better off, 
for the reporting of occupational diseases to the Commissioner of Labor 
Statistics is required by Chapter 159 of the Acts of 1911. Here as else- 
where such laws are very incompletely complied with. In 1914, 12 cases 
of lead poisoning were reported from New Haven, nine among wire 
workers, and one each among munition workers, clock makers and cigar 




FIG. IV 

A DANGKROTS FIRK Esc API-: 

Tin's fire escape is in a closed court from which there 
is no means of egress except through the buildings. Its 
lowe.r point of attachment was completely rusted away 
so that it could be pulled away from the wall as shown 
in the picture. Xote also rubbish in the court. 




Fid. V 

ONE OF THE BEST FRUITS OF NEW HAVEN'S Civic SPIRIT 
The block of model homes at View and Willow Streets 



Health Survey of New Haven 27 

makers, besides one case of brass poisoning and several minor ailments. 
In 1915 and 1916, however, only seven cases of occupational poisoning 
were reported from New Haven out of a total of 129 received from the 
state at large, a most gratifying result which suggests that steps have 
probably been taken to secure more effective protection. These seven 
include five cases of lead poisoning (a wire worker, a munition worker, 
a painter, a paper hanger, and a saloon keeper). The accident reports 
made to the Board of Compensation Commissioners are not classified 
by towns, but in the third district, which includes New Haven as its 
largest unit, 7659 injuries were reported between November 1, 1914, and 
January 1, 1916. 

Connecticut is fortunate in having a good Workmen's Compensation 
Act, although one which is somewhat less liberal in certain of its provi- 
sions than the Federal Act or the corresponding laws of Massachusetts, 
New York, Ohio and Illinois. The Supreme Court of Errors decided in 
April, 1916, that "personal injury" in the Act was limited to accidents and 
did not cover occupational diseases. 

The state laws designed directly to secure health and safety in factories 
are on the other hand decidedly defective. It is provided in general terms 
that "all factories and buildings where machinery is used shall be well 
lighted, ventilated and kept as clean as the nature of the business will 
permit" ; that "the belting, shafting, gearing, machinery and drums of all 
factories and buildings where machinery is used, when so placed as, in 
the opinion of the inspector, to be dangerous to the persons employed 
therein while engaged in their ordinary duties, shall, as far as practicable, 
be securely guarded" (both provisions from Section 4516, General Stat- 
utes of 1902) ; and that "every employer whose business requires the 
operation or use of any emery, tripoli, rouge, corundum, stone, carbor- 
undum, or other abrasive, polishing, or buffing wheel, in the manufactures 
of articles of metal or iridium, or whose business includes any process 
which generates an excessive amount of dust, shall install and maintain in 
connection therewith such devices as may be considered necessary by the 
factory inspector and state board of health to remove from the atmosphere 
any dust created by such process" (from Section 1, Chapter 208, Public 
Acts of 1913). 

There is no provision whatever in regard to industrial poisonings ; and 
the sections in regard to light and ventilation have no force unless specifi- 
cally interpreted by experts. The enforcement of the laws is entrusted 
to six deputy inspectors (besides two female deputies, whose duties are 
limited to the supervision of conditions surrounding the employment of 
women, "machinery, appliances or fixtures, except sanitary fixtures," being 
specially excluded from their purview). No special qualifications are 



28 Health Survey of New Haven 

laid down by the law for the male deputies and the power of the Civil 
Service Commission to establish technical qualifications is nullified by 
the almost universal practice of securing exemptions. Although the depu- 
ties have undoubtedly acquired a knowledge of the art of safeguarding 
machinery, there is no reason to suppose that they are in any way compe- 
tent to determine whether a given factory is "well lighted" and "venti- 
lated," problems which require the application of refined physical and 
chemical tests. Neither the State Department of Labor and Factory 
Inspection nor the State Board of Health so far as we are aware has 
at present the special technical knowledge necessary to make specific 
recommendations for the carrying out of even the provisions in regard to 
dust removal. 

Two things are now generally recognized as essential in order to secure 
adequate protection of industrial workers against the insidious dangers 
of occupational disease. First there is necessary an Industrial Council 
with power to formulate specific regulations for carrying out the general 
provisions of the law. It is well that the statutory provisions should be 
general as they are in the Connecticut law, but they must be interpreted 
by a small expert body as is now the case in Massachusetts, New York, 
Wisconsin and other states. Such a Council should represent employers, 
employees, the public, and the science of industrial hygiene, and should be 
entrusted with the task of defining for different classes of work good 
ventilation, good light, and adequate dust removal and of formulating 
regulations for the prevention of occupational poisonings. 

In the second place it is essential that laws in regard to light and venti- 
lation, dust removal and occupational poisons, should be enforced by 
trained experts. The New York, Massachusetts and Ohio bureaus pro- 
vide for medical experts to supervise the control of the subtle occu- 
pational poisonings, chemical experts for air analysis and the study of 
poisonous dusts, and engineering experts for the study of ventilating and 
dust removal problems. 

These two things, a small expert council for framing regulations, and 
a force of trained men to carry them out, are the ends to be desired. Just 
how these fundamental needs can be attained under Connecticut condi- 
tions is a problem to be worked out with much care and thought. We 
therefore suggest: 

Recommendation III. That the Civic Federation organise a new Com- 
mittee on Industrial Hygiene to study the question of securing adequate 
protection for industrial workers against occupational poisonings, and 
the dangers of bad ventilation, industrial dusts and other insanitary fac- 
tory conditions, and present to the Legislature of ipi8 a plan for securing 
these ends; and we suggest that this committee should also direct its atten- 



Health Survey of New Haven 29 

tion to the importance of having appointments in the present Department 
of Labor made on a merit basis after civil service examination. 

It is the opinion of those who have given most careful study to the 
problem that the organization of a system of health insurance which 
indirectly stimulates both workman and employer to reduce the risk of 
occupational disease to a minimum will often do even more than direct 
legislation to promote the movement for industrial hygiene. We there- 
fore suggest: 

Recommendation IV. That the movement for a system of Health 
Insurance in Connecticut should receive the earnest consideration of the 
Civic Federation as an important step toward the prevention of occupa- 
tional and other diseases. 

We cannot leave this question of industrial hygiene without a word of 
appreciation of the steps taken on their own initiative by many of the 
employers of New Haven in the direction of providing safe and healthful 
conditions for their employees. The Acme Wire Company, the American 
Steel & Wire Company, the L. Candee Company, the Connecticut Com- 
pany, the Geometric Tool Company, the Greist Manufacturing Company, 
the Hoggson and Pettis Manufacturing Company, the Southern New 
England Telephone Company, the Winchester Repeating Arms Company, 
the City Y. M. C. A., and the Yale Industrial Y. M. C. A. are all members 
of the National Safety Council. The Winchester Repeating Arms Com- 
pany has a particularly well-worked-out system of accident prevention 
which has reduced the proportion of serious or lost time accidents from 
16 per cent of all accidents in 1913 to 4.9 per cent in 1916. Its Personnel 
Department includes an employment bureau, an emergency hospital 
with company physicians and a corps of visiting nurses, employees' per- 
sonal aid and many other branches of work. The Geometric Tool Com- 
pany has a first aid room and a social secretary and has paid special atten- 
tion to factory and personal cleanliness (by the provision of shower baths 
and the like). L. Candee & Company and the Acme Wire Company have 
carried the protection of machinery to a high point, and each firm pro- 
vides a first aid hospital which has proved of great value in reducing 
danger from accidents, and a graduate nurse who carries on invaluable 
work in the sanitary and hygienic instruction of employees. In response 
to our inquiry the Southern New England Telephone Company writes : 

"The fundamentals of industrial safety and welfare as prac- 
ticed by The Southern New England Telephone Co. consist of 
two principal factors: (1) the construction and maintenance of 
its plant and equipment under those standard methods which are 
best known to the art for the elimination of all hazards, and 



jo Health Survey of New Haven 

(2) the education of its employees as to the hazards which may 
be encountered through careless and thoughtless actions, as 
well as the methods which should be followed in order to pre- 
vent such accidents. 

"Rules and instructions for the safety of employees are fur- 
nished to each person entering its service; lectures on 'First 
Aid' treatment are given each year by a competent physician, 
followed by 'First Aid' contests in which all employees are 
encouraged to enlist ; and monthly bulletins are issued to explain 
the most prevalent kinds of accidents with the proper methods 
for their future prevention." 

The Greist Manufacturing Company has paid special attention to hos- 
pital treatment of injuries and factory cleanliness. Mr. H. M. Greist 
writes : 

"We find that the best thing we have ever done for the health 
and happiness of our employees was the change of our working 
hours from 6 days of 9 hours each to 5 days of 9^ hours each 
and 1 (Saturday) half day of 5 hours." 



The Public Water Supply 

The provision of an adequate supply of pure water is the first essen- 
tial of municipal sanitation. In New Haven the public supply is fur- 
nished by the New Haven Water Company, the city paying a lump sum 
for its service. The water supply is very generally distributed, except in 
the outlying districts of the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth wards, 
and private wells are very rare. Our special investigator, Mr. D. O'Brien, 
found a few dug wells on Crescent and Fitch and adjoining streets in 
Ward 13. These should be eliminated as rapidly as possible. 

In the central part of the city the various supplies are mixed in the 
pipes, and the same house may be supplied from one or another source, 
depending on varying draught in various sections. 

The public water supply includes four principal systems which enter 
the city by the mains shown in Fig. 6, while a fifth supply from the 
Maltby Lakes serves a small part of the West Chapel Street section as 
well as the town of West Haven. The first three of the main supplies 
are drawn from Lakes Saltonstall, Whitney and Wintergreen, respectively, 
the fourth or Woodbridge supply from Lakes Dawson, Chamberlain and 
Glen. Up to 1902 all of the water was used without purification. In this 
year a sand filter was installed at Lake Whitney as a result of a serious 




FIG. VI 

THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS OF NEW HAVEN 
A, Saltonstall; B, Whitney; C. Wintergreen; D, Woodbridge (Lake Dawson); E, Maltby 



$2 Health Survey of New Haven 

typhoid epidemic, which was definitely traced to the Woodbridge supply. 
More recently (in 1912) a chlorination plant has been installed at the 
Woodbridge reservoir. The Saltonstall, Wintergreen and Maltby supplies 
receive no purification except that which they gain by storage. 

The Lake Whitney watershed covers 37.7 square miles; that of Lake 
Saltonstall 20.2 square miles; Lake Wintergreen 1.1 square miles; the 
Maltby Lakes 13.3 square miles, and the Woodbridge supply 13.6. The 
population on the watersheds of Lakes Wintergreen, Maltby and Salton- 
stall, the only supplies without purification in addition to storage, is 
16,757. 

Lake Whitney furnishes 12,000,000 gallons daily ; Woodbridge supply, 
9,000,000; Lake Saltonstall, 6,000,000; and Lake Wintergreen, 1,000,- 
000 a total of 28,000,000, which means a consumption of 180 gallons 
per capita per day. This consumption is about three times what it should 
be, and in the interests of economy a system of metering should be intro- 
duced. Any excess over a consumption of 50-60 gallons per capita per 
day is always found to be due to waste through leaking fixtures and leak- 
ing street mains, and the installation of meters soon leads to the detection- 
of such waste and its elimination without any limitation on legitimate 
use. 

The Lake Whitney sand filters have now been in operation for 14 
years and have yielded excellent results under the able superintendence of 
Mr. O'Connor. The system of purification of the Woodbridge supply by 
chlorination is also entirely satisfactory. The other three supplies, as 
pointed out above, are improved by storage and are protected by a very 
thorough system of sanitary patrol and by the ownership by the company 
of a considerable portion of the watershed. Such precautions are good, 
but they do not, and cannot, ensure a wholly safe supply. No amount of 
patrolling can prevent occasional pollution by picnickers, tramps, or by 
those using the roads near the reservoirs. The factor of safety offered 
by storage may at any time be nullified by sudden rushes of rain or 
melting snow or by currents induced by wind, such as caused the epidemic 
of typhoid at Auburn, N. Y., in 1908. New Haven cannot afford to run 
even a slight risk of repeating the disastrous experience of 1901. 

Our laboratory examinations of the various supplies bear out the con- 
clusion that the three unpurified supplies are not at all times entirely safe 
from a sanitary standpoint. 

During November and December, 1916, a series of samples was exam- 
ined on 29 different days for the colon bacillus, the characteristic microbe 
of the intestine. As indicated in the table below, this organism was found 
but once in the disinfected Woodbridge water (in two out of five one c.c 
portions examined), but twice in the filtered Whitney supply (once in one 



Health Survey of New Haven 55 

and once in two out of five one c.c. portions examined) ; while it was 
isolated on four days from Saltonstall, on five days from the Maltby 
supply, and on seven days from the Wintergreen supply. The colon 
bacillus may occasionally be isolated in one or two out of five one 
c.c. portions without the result being significant, but the Wintergreen 
and Maltby results tabulated below indicate that these waters at times 

BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATIONS OF NEW HAVEN WATER 
Number of Days on Which B. Coli Was Isolated 

Number of one c. c. portions showing positive results on a given day 
12345 

Saltonstall 25 4 

Wintergreen 21 4 2 1 

Woodbridge 27 1 

Whitney 25 1 1 

Maltby 23 3 1 1 

show evidence of pollution in amounts which are not considered admis- 
sible by such standards as those laid down by the U. S. Public Health 
Service for drinking water served on interstate railroad trains. It is 
true that most of the colon bacilli in these waters do not come from 
sewage but from the washings of fertilized land, roadways and the like. 
Our studies of the typhoid death rate of New Haven do not indicate that 
the water supply has been recently in any way responsible for its causa- 
tion. It is a possible future danger, not a present one, we have in mind, 
but a danger which an unhappy combination of circumstances might at 
any time make an actual one. 

It is the clear consensus of opinion of competent sanitarians that sani- 
tary patrol and storage alone cannot generally be relied upon to furnish 
a safe water supply in thickly settled regions like those of southern Con- 
necticut, and that additional measures 'of purification should be provided. 
Fortunately in chlorination, as now applied to the Woodbridge supply, 
we have an effective safeguard at a cost so low as to be wholly negligible. 
We therefore urge : 

Recommendation V. That steps be taken to secure at all times the 
complete safety of the New Haven water by providing for the treatment 
by chlorination of the Saltonstall, Wintergreen and Maltby supplies. 

Sewerage and Sewage Disposal 

The prompt removal of excretal wastes by means of public sewers is 
another of the primary essentials of municipal sanitation, and the danger 
of transmission of disease from improperly constructed privy vaults is 



j^ Health Survey of New Haven 

an obvious and important one. 'Excellent progress toward the elimina- 
tion of such vaults has been made in the more closely settled regions of 
New Haven. The older twelve wards are now sewered with reasonable 
completeness and it is estimated by the Board of Health that not over 
fifty vaults now exist on sewered streets. Our special inspector, Mr. 
O'Brien, has checked this estimate by going over certain selected dis- 
tricts and believes the estimate to be a conservative one. For instance, 
only five privies were found in the section of the second, third and fourth 
wards bounded by Park, George and Meadow Streets, Columbus and 
Howard Avenues; and six in the sewered part of Ward 9 and some of 
the sewered part of Ward 10. In the unsewered parts of Wards 9 and 
13, in Fair Haven, especially in the Westville district, on Crescent, 
Watson, Daisy, Bassett and Shepard Streets, the privy problem is, 
however, a serious one. 

In all, nearly 400 privies were inspected by Mr. O'Brien, including 39 
on Crescent, Fowler, Fitch and adjoining streets in Ward 13, 50 in the 
region bounded by Prospect Street, Dixwell Avenue and Munson Street 
(Ward 9), 123 in Ward 14 (Fair Haven), 28 in the Westville district 
(Fountain, Dayton, Emerson and Harrison Streets), and 123 in 
Ward 15 (Lighthouse, Morris Cove and Granniss Corner districts). He 
reports the privies in the Fair Haven district to be in particularly bad 
condition, two-thirds of them being in some way "exposed to flies, rats or 
other insects or vermin." In general, "of the vaults examined, over 50 
per cent were in some way exposed to flies and other insects. Of these, 
most cases were those of uncovered seats, while many had unscreened 
windows, open doors, large cracks, and quite a few were openly exposed 
at the bottom. Some had a combination of all these faults." 

The dangers from such an open exposure of excreta as is shown in 
Fig. 7 is too obvious for discussion. Flies will resort to such a place 
in great numbers and will carry pollution to food in the neighboring 
houses. Only the presence of specific discharges from a typhoid case or 
a carrier is needed to initiate a serious epidemic ; and Dr. Lewis, Bacteri- 
ologist of the Department of Health, has actually traced a considerable 
number of typhoid cases to this cause. Such filthy interior conditions as 
are shown in Fig. 8 constitute an equally serious menace. 

Pending the extension of the sewerage system and the gradual enforce- 
ment of sewer connections on sewered streets we believe that the condition 
of existing privy vaults should receive very serious consideration. Even 
a privy vault can be made reasonably sanitary with sufficient care. We 
therefore urge : 

Recommendation VI. That an ordinance be passed requiring all primes 
to be tightly constructed, screened against flies, and maintained in a sani- 




FIG. VI 1 
A DANGKROVS OPKN PRIVY 




PIG. VIII 
FILTHY INTERIOR OF A PRIVY 



Health Survey of New Haven 



35 



tary condition; and that a special inspector be detailed to supervise the 
enforcement of these regulations. 

The main trunk sewers and outlets of the sewerage systems of New 
Haven are shown in Fig. 9. There are 129.58 miles of sewers and it is 
estimated" that there are about 20,000 connections, 18,904 having been 
actually recorded between 1871 (when the records begin) and 1916. The 
system is built on the combined plan to take both house sewage and storm 
water as was the practice until recent times, but the sewers were well 
designed and in general may be considered adequate and satisfactory. At 
times of heavy rain the flow backs up in the 36-inch sewer on Church 
Street between George and Grove and causes flooding of cellars, a condi- 
tion which can be ameliorated, though not wholly removed, by plans 
which have been prepared by the City Engineer's Office. The Whalley 
Avenue Boulevard sewer is also somewhat overcharged. 




FIG. IX 

THE PRINCIPAL SEWERS OF NEW HAVEN 

A. Sea St. outlet; B, Meadow St. outlet; C. East St. outlet; 

D, Poplar St. outlet; E, James St. outlet 



The next large project to be undertaken is the sewerage of the north- 
ern half of Westville. Plans have been drawn for a separate system in 
this region to connect with an extension of the 60-inch Whalley Avenue 
sewer, the storm water drains to discharge into West River. Eighty 
thousand dollars has been appropriated to begin this work, which is 
already under way. In connection with the general problem of sewer 



j<5 Health Survey of New Haven 

extension we desire to endorse the 'recommendation of Dr. Wright that 
the Board of Health should have a voice in selecting the streets to be 
sewered in the order that, in its opinion, necessity demands. 

Sewerage offers the one wholly satisfactory solution of the difficulties 
of the individual householder; but it creates a new municipal problem, 
that of sewage disposal, one of the largest and most pressing civic prob- 
lems which New Haven must face in the immediate future. 

Aside from many small private sewers there are five large public sewers 
which discharge into New Haven harbor at the points indicated in Fig. 
9. At Sea Street on the west side of the harbor about 3,600,000 gallons 
a day are discharged; at Meadow Street, 1,700,000 gallons and at East 
Street, 13,600,000 gallons, both near the head of the harbor; while two 
smaller sewers discharge into the Quinnipiac River at Poplar Street 
(850,000 gallons) and James Street (2,450,000 gallons). These figures 
are from gaugings made during August, 1916, under the direction of 
Albert B. Hill, Consulting Engineer. 

Much of New Haven harbor is shallow, particularly in the vicinity of 
the Sea Street outfall. The outfalls are all above low-water mark, and 
the sewage as it spreads over the flats and deposits its solid sludge upon 
them produces a condition of gross nuisance; while the presence of the 
untreated sewage constitutes a grave menace to the health of those who 
bathe in the harbor or consume shellfish grown therein. 

During the past summer the sanitary condition of the harbor was 
exhaustively studied by a corps of experts from the U. S. Public Health 
Service. Dr. Hugh S. Cumming, Surgeon in Charge, has made the 
following report to Dr. Wright in regard to these investigations. 

"The investigation has included : 

"1. Observation of the origin and character of the discharge from the 
various sewer outfalls. 

"2. Observations of floats set near the outfalls and of feces and other 
floating matter discharged therefrom, with reference to the direction and 
distance traveled by them over various periods of time and tide. 

"3. Laboratory examinations of approximately one thousand eight 
hundred samples of mud, water and shellfish taken from all parts of the 
harbor. 

"As a result of the investigations so far made, the following conclu- 
sions have been reached : 

"1. That the harbor of New Haven, and the tidal portions of the 
Quinnipiac, West and Mill Rivers above the line between Bradley Point 
and the Old Tower are grossly polluted by sewage discharged from the 
sewer outfalls in the harbor. 



Health Survey of New Haven 57 

"2. That the portion of the harbor which lies below the above line and 
within the breakwater contains a smaller proportion of pollution because 
of the dilution at each incoming tide and the sedimentation of some of 
the sewage before it reaches the area. 

"3. All of the first described area, and probably all of the second, 
certainly that portion adjacent to the channel, receives sewage, including 
human feces, within one tide, or about six hours after its discharge from 
the sewer outfalls. The sewerage system of New Haven is so con- 
structed that sewage is discharged unusually fresh and before disinte- 
gration has taken place. 

"4. The direction of flow and distance traveled by sewage from any 
outfall is determined by the combined action of the tide and wind. 

"5. Shellfish in the harbor are exposed to pollution by sewage from 
the city and are filthy, dangerous and unfit to be eaten as taken from 
the area. 

"Owing to their greater physiological activity during warm weather, the 
danger of conveying infectious pollution is greatest during such periods, 
and the eating of uncooked shellfish taken from along the fore shore and 
in the immediate vicinity of sewer outfalls is particularly dangerous to 
health. 

"There is no sanitary reason why shellfish should not be grown in the 
harbor if they be transferred to unpolluted waters for a period of about 
ten days before they are taken as food. 

"6. Bathing and swimming in the waters of the harbor above the line 
between Old Tower and Bradley Point, and in the rivers is unsafe and 
should be prohibited. The practice, which seems common, of bathing in 
the rivers and along the fore shores in the vicinity of sewer outfalls is 
especially dangerous. 

"The dike at Sandy Point diverts grossly polluted waters from the 
sewer outfalls above that point, toward and into Morris Cove ; floats and 
pieces of feces have been followed from the outfalls to the bathing beaches 
at Fort Hale and in Morris Cove, including the vicinity of the Yacht 
Club. 

"The sewage along the shore from Savin Rock to Bradley Point comes 
in part from the sewer outfall of the West Haven Disposal Plant, though 
it is probable that some of it comes from the city sewer outfalls as has 
been shown by the float which traveled from the City Point outfall to 
Cox's Beach within eight hours. 

"Briefly, I recommend that the taking of shellfish from the harbor of 
New Haven be prohibited, except under precautions as will insure that 
they will not be used as food until after purification. 



$8 Health Survey of New Haven 

"That the bathing in the grossly polluted, filthy waters of the harbor 
and rivers be prohibited. 

"That the city continue to take such appropriate steps as will eventually 
insure the proper disposal of its sewage." 

We believe all of these findings to be fully justified ; and urge as 

Recommendation VII. That pending the treatment of the city sewage 
the taking of shellfish from the harbor of New Haven be prohibited 
except under such precautions as will ensure adequate purification before 
they are used as food f 

and as 

Recommendation VIII. That pending the treatment of the city sewage 
bathing be prohibited in the more grossly polluted portions of the harbor, 
the limits of the prohibited area to be defined by the Board of Health. 

We would particularly call attention to the fact that New Haven 
suffers from an excessively high typhoid fever death rate, and that our 
special studies of the local prevalence of the disease indicate that the 
cases are specially concentrated in those water-front wards immediately 
adjacent to the sewer outlets. From these facts as well as from the 
seasonal and age incidence of the disease we are inclined to believe that an 
appreciable amount of the typhoid infection in New Haven may be due to 
bathing in these polluted waters. The purification of shellfish and the 
limitation of bathing are at best but temporary palliative measures. New 
Haven cannot abandon the harbor, which should be its chief natural 
beauty and its pleasure ground, to be a public nuisance and a breeder of 
disease. An appropriation has been made for a channel to be dredged 
out to the main channel from the Sea Street outlet, which is to be sub- 
merged well below the surface of the harbor. This procedure may help 
matters somewhat, here and at the other outfalls. What is really essen- 
tial, however, is the treatment of the sewage. Complete purification to 
the point of oxidation of all the organic matter is by no means essential, 
for it is estimated by Mr. Kellogg of the City Engineer's Office that the 
tidal prism in the whole harbor is 300 times the sewage flow, which means 
that the natural digestive capacity of the harbor should be ample to care 
for the soluble materials present. The suspended solids should, however, 
be removed to avoid sludge deposits and local nuisances, and as a pre- 
liminary to chemical disinfection, which will make thq harbor safe for 
taking shellfish and for bathing. The exact process which will prove most 
efficient and economical for securing these ends must be determined by 
special study, and the City Government has placed $11,000 at the dis- 
posal of a special Aldermanic and Citizens' Subcommittee for an investi- 
gation of the subject. An Experiment Station is being built at the East 




FIG. X 
BACK YARDS BEFORE THE SPRING CLEAN-UP 




FIG. XI 
A COURT IN A CROWDED TENEMENT DISTRICT 



Health Survey of New Haven 39 

Street outfall, to be operated under the direction of Prof. S. E. Barney 
of the Sheffield Scientific School and one of us (C.-E. A. W.). We would 
urge: 

Recommendation IX. That so soon as the experiments on sewage dis^ 
posal are completed the sewage of the city should be treated as promptly 
as possible by such means as seem best adapted to eliminate local nui~ 
sances and render the harbor waters safe for bathing and for the taking 
of shellfish. 

Collection and Disposal of Garbage and Refuse 

The systematic collection of garbage was first instituted in New Haven 
in 1876 through the efforts of that pioneer sanitarian, Prof. W. H. 
Brewer. It was first placed under the control of the Board of Health, 
but with a growing realization of the fact that the handling of munici- 
pal wastes is rather an engineering than a health problem, it was, in 1915, 
removed, at the request of the Board of Health, from the jurisdiction of 
the Board and placed under the Department of Public Works. 

At present the collection of garbage is carried out by the city itself in 
the region between Chapel Street on the southeast and State Street and 
Mill River on the southwest, while two contractors care for the south- 
easterly and southwesterly sections. The contracts call for collection in 
covered metal wagons at three to four day intervals during November, 
December, January, February, March and April, and on alternate week 
days during May, June, July, August, September and October. That this 
periodicity of collection does not obtain is known to all and evidenced by 
the large number of complaints. During the years 1911-15 there have 
been on the average about 2800 complaints each year, and during the first 
eleven months of 1916 there were about 2500. The city imposes a fine of 
$5 upon the contractors for each infraction not answered in 24 hours, 
and this helps in checking laxity of the collectors. 

In order to obtain a better idea of the actual efficiency of the service, 
a house-to-house canvass was conducted by Mr. O'Brien during two 
periods of a week each, once in June and once in August. 

Mr. O'Brien reports as follows : 

"Streets were selected at random, generally one from each of the first 
twelve wards, so as to get a fairly representative idea of conditions 
throughout the city, and twelve consecutive houses on each street (six 
on a side) were canvassed for the stated time. Of the streets selected, 
some were of the poorer class, some of the better class. The condition 
of the garbage can and the amount of garbage present were noted in each 
case every day. In this way it was easy to tell whether or not a collection 



^o Health Survey of New Haven 

had been made. If there was any doubt, careful questioning of the house- 
holder generally cleared up the situation. 

"A study of the records as summarized in the table below indicates that 
the service is irregular and falls very far short of the three collections a 
week called for by the contracts. Nor is the collection by the city any 
better than that carried out by the private contractors. 

"A noticeable feature of the present canvass was the dirty and fly- 
breeding condition of a very large number of garbage cans. In many 
instances the contents were practically a solid mass of maggots. The fault 
here seems to be both with the garbage collector for not coming more fre- 
quently, and scraping the cans more thoroughly when he does come, and 
with the householder for not scalding and washing the can after it is 
emptied. Carelessness and negligence on the part of the collectors were 
evident from the number of houses 'skipped* upon a street, and from 
the spilling of garbage in the yard during the transfer from one can 
to another. The disreputable condition of many of the cans, such as 
lack of covers, cracks, exposure to flies, etc., is the fault of the tenant 
or owner of the house. The practice of throwing garbage upon the ash 
heap and in the yard was due either to the filling of the garbage can and 
the irregularity of collection, or to the insanitary habits of the house- 
holder, or to both. In many instances tenants were obliged to burn or 
bury their garbage to eliminate nuisance." 



GARBAGE COLLECTIONS IN ONE WEEK, SUMMER, 1916 



Location 

fGregory 
90-118 

fElm, 569-599 
*Oak, 528-504 

*Cedar, 260-252 
*Warren, 26-28 
"Wallace, 61-92 

*Blatchley 
162-140 

*Blatchley 
432-420 

*East, 534-554 

tHumphrey 
260-290 

*High, 25-37 



One 



Sat. 

Tues. 
Mon. 

Thurs. 



*Contractor's collection. 
fCity collection. 



Two 

Sat., Tues. 
Wed., Sat. 

Sat., Mon. 
(very irreg.) 

Tues. Thurs. 



Mon., Wed. 



Wed., Fri. 



Three 



Mon., Wed., Sat. 
(very irreg. ) 



Health Survey of New Haven 41 

Even more serious perhaps is the question of the refuse other than 
garbage, for the collection of which the city makes no provision at all. 
Ashes, rubbish and other classes of refuse must be disposed of on the 
initiative and at the expense of the householder. There are some 50 
to 70 collectors who undertake this work without any sort of regulation or 
supervision. In some districts collections are made with reasonable 
regularity at a charge of ten cents a barrel. In the poorer sections the 
refuse accumulates in barrels or makeshift ash bins or in piles in the 
yards during a period of months and during the spring clean-up is 
carted away for $1.50 to $2 a load. It is, of course, inevitable that 
much true garbage of an offensive nature is generally mixed in with these 
accumulations of ashes and rubbish. 

Mr. O'Brien inspected the back yards in selected districts and took 
many photographs like Figs. 10-12. He found the yards in such streets 
as Elm, Gregory, Humphrey and Blatchley Avenue to be most of 
them in good condition, but on Oak, Cedar, Warren, Wallace and East 
Streets many dirty yards were found. Thus of two of these regions he 
says: 

"On Cedar Street, No. , garbage, papers, cans, etc., thrown in the 
yard and ash heap, and covered with flies; at No. , garbage spilled in 
the yard causing smell ; at No. , garbage spilled about the can and gar- 
bage, cans, etc., in the ash heap, with flies very numerous; at No. , 
garbage thrown in the ash heap in large amount and drawing flies; the 
yard, especially the ash heap, very dirty and smelly. The large number 
of flies in all the yards on this street was remarkable. 

"On Warren Street the yard was heaped with garbage, rubbish, etc. ; at 
No. the yard was dirty, and the people were burning the rubbish ; at 
No. the yard was dirty and there was garbage about; at Nos. , 
and the yards were dirty ; at No. the yard was dirty and had garbage 
in it ; and at No. the yard was dirty, and had a very noticeable number 
of flies." 

We do not feel that the Board of Health is responsible for the existence 
of these unfortunate conditions. On the contrary we were impressed 
with the general efficiency of the department in this respect and with the 
great relative improvement effected by the vigorous clean-up campaign 
which is conducted by the various departments during the spring months. 
If there is no systematic public collection of refuse, other than garbage, 
the accumulation in bins and yards of great masses of filth, particularly 
during the winter, is inevitable in the poorer quarters of the city. 

Dirty back yards are not to-day regarded as of primary importance con- 
sidered purely from the standpoint of the public health. Except for the 
problem of fly breeding, which will be discussed in a later section, the 



^2 Health Survey of New Haven 

removal of the conditions described would not appreciably affect the death 
rate. Civic cleanliness is, however, important for its own sake. Public 
decency must be considered as well as public health. The dilapidated and 
overflowing rubbish bins and the untidy back yards of New Haven can 
scarcely fail to strike an observant visitor, familiar with conditions in other 
cities. These conditions are not creditable to the city, and as a matter of 
proper civic pride should not be permitted to continue. 

It may be pointed out that "proper disposal of city waste (sewage, 
garbage, ashes, rubbish, etc.)" is one of the special needs urged upon us 
by Dr. Wright in a letter of April 18, 1916. We cordially agree; and 
therefore make: 

Recommendation X. That the present system of garbage collection 
should be improved so as actually to secure in all sections of the city the 
regular and frequent removals now called for by agreements with con- 
tractors; and that a regular public system of collection be instituted for 
other classes of refuse. 

The garbage collected in the city of New Haven is utilized for the 
feeding of swine, that from the central section at a municipal piggery at 
the Springside Home and that from the sections served by contractors 
at farms in Westville and Fair Haven Heights. 

Statistics as to the amount of garbage collected are available only for 
the city's district, in which the yearly collection amounts to 2820 loads of 
two tons each. The total appropriation for garbage collection is $26,000, 
of which the two contractors receive $5000 and $6000 apiece. The 
operating expenses of the piggery amounted in 1915 to $2505.69 and the 
profits from the sale of pigs to $15,589.39, leaving a net profit on garbage 
disposal of $13,083.70; enough to pay all but $2000 of the cost of collection 
in the municipally served area. Thus the total net cost of collection and 
disposal, including the sums paid to contractors, amounts to about $13,000 
or less than 9 cents per capita. A near-by Connecticut city of about the 
size of New Haven pays over $50,000 for the collection and disposal (by 
reduction) of its garbage. In general, experience shows that the feeding 
of garbage to pigs is the most profitable method of disposal for all except 
very large cities, and New Haven is to be congratulated on the financial 
success of this procedure in its own case. A part of the low cost may, 
however, be explained as due to the defective service noted above. Con- 
ditions at the piggeries are also not altogether satisfactory and will require 
the attention of the city authorities in the near future. 

The refuse other than garbage, collected by the private collectors, is 
taken to the city dumps, of which there are fifteen, and to some private 
dumps. Refuse dumps are objectionable as sources of dust, as starting 
points for fires, and as breeding places for insects. The problem of a 




FIG. XII 
THKIR ONLY PLAYGROUND 




FIG. XIII 
ONE OF THE CITY DUMPS 



Health Survey of New Haven 43 

better system of ultimate disposal must some day be faced. The increasing 
value of paper may easily make a plant for the utilization of wastes of 
this character a source of profit to the city. A system of municipal collec- 
tion must in any case be a preliminary to improved methods of ultimate 
disposal ; and the elimination of the thousands of small dumps which now 
disfigure the back yards of the city is the condition which requires most 
immediate attention. 

The Fly Problem 

Municipal cleanliness and public health are by no means so closely 
related as was once thought to be the case. There is one way, however, in 
which filth does have a direct and sometimes a measurable effect upon the 
death rate, by furnishing conditions favorable to the breeding of flies, 
which in turn may act as the agents for the transmission of the germs of 
communicable disease. Where human excreta are exposed, as in unpro- 
tected privy vaults and at such surface sewer outlets as those of New 
Haven, flies may easily carry the germs of typhoid fever to food, and even 
in sewered cities, as shown by recent studies in New York, they may play 
an important part in the causation of summer diarrhea of infants. 

The favorite breeding place of the common house fly or filth fly is 
stable manure, and the proper handling of this substance is fundamental 
in the anti-fly campaign. In 1916 there were 1338 stables harboring 3431 
horses recorded within the city limits ; and one of the sanitary inspectors 
of the Board of Health devotes himself during the summer months to 
the inspection of these places, and the enforcement of Section 446 of the 
City Ordinances which provides that "No person shall place, leave, or 
suffer to remain upon any premises in said city any stable manure (except 
for fertilizing purposes) or refuse matter in which flies may breed, 
unless the same is enclosed in a tight .box, pit or other receptacle which 
shall be kept closely covered so as to exclude all flies at all times except 
when said manure or refuse matter is being placed therein or removed 
therefrom. 

"During the months of May, June, July, August, September, October 
and November it shall be unlawful for any person to allow said stable 
manure or refuse matter to remain unremoved for a period of over seven 
days. 

"The penalty for failure to comply with this rule is a fine of not less 
than one, nor more than one hundred dollars." 

The sanitary inspector assigned to the task of the control of fly 
breeding places made 4356 inspections between March 1 and August 1, 
1915, and found 458 stables not in good condition. Four hundred fifty- 



44 Health Survey of New Haven 

five of them made satisfactory changes either upon his order or following 
admonition from the City Attorney, and three owners were fined. 

Interest in the fly problem has been greatly stimulated during the past 
few years by the activity of the Committee on Sanitation of the Civic 
Federation under the leadership of Dr. Ferris. In 1914 $650 was sub- 
scribed tot this work, five inspectors were employed, and with the co- 
operation of the Board of Health 1200 stables were catalogued, 8000 
inspections made, and 100 stable owners brought into court for violation 
of the ordinance. A vigorous educational campaign was carried on 
through the newspapers and by means of pamphlets and placards, lectures 
and motion pictures. The work was continued in 1915, and in 1916 Mr. 
G. Russell Phillips, the Fly Inspector of the Federation, personally in- 
spected the stables in the city proper during the summer and left cards 
bearing the city ordinance above quoted at each place. Mr. Phillips 
reports as follows in regard to his inspection : 

"Most of the stables were in good condition. Many have made arrange- 
ments for farmers to come in at least every three days to take away the 
manure. Others provide for the removal of the manure every day in 
the week except Sunday. In each instance the farmers were glad to get 
the manure for taking it away. A few stable owners were discovered 
who refused to clean up their places at all until they were threatened with 
the prospect of facing court proceedings. Thirty-five names of people 
whose premises were breeding flies were handed to the Board of Health 
and their places were cleaned up with the exception of two or three who 
were brought into court. In one place a garbage pile was discovered 
outside the barn that was fairly alive with flies. Upon this pile were a 
dead cat and several dead rats and about it were half a dozen little chil- 
dren playing. They were handling the dead animals and other refuse in 
the pile. This was turned over to the Board of Health who took very 
prompt measures to clean up this nuisance. In most cases where the ordi- 
nance was not being lived up to it was a case of carelessness on the 
part of the owners or occupants themselves, or the servants, and when 
approached in regard to the matter they were ready and willing to put 
their places in proper condition." 

Conditions were also observed during the past summer by one of us 
(D. G.) and by Mr. O'Brien, and we too feel that conditions are reason- 
ably satisfactory. For certain periods during July and August Mr. 
O'Brien studied the relation between sanitary conditions and the extent of 
the fly nuisance by placing traps in selected localities and measuring the 
catch at regular intervals. The number of flies caught in clean yards and 
neighborhoods was usually small. In a number of cases traps showed 
an almost negligible catch after a week. In fairly clean localities it took 



Health Survey of New Haven 45 

four days to accumulate a pint of flies (900 flies per day). In dirty back 
yards, on the other hand, with ash heaps strewn with garbage, such as 
were found on Prince and Wallace Streets and behind a market on State 
Street, more than two quarts of flies could be collected in three days 
(4800 flies per day). 

It is evident that the control of the fly nuisance will continue to require 
the earnest attention of the Board of Health ; and constant advances in our 
knowledge of the habits of the insect are likely to make progress more 
rapid in the future than in the past. It is possible, for example, that less 
emphasis should be placed on the tight closing of the manure bin and 
more on the frequent and complete removal of all the manure. The tight, 
dark bin was designed to prevent the laying of eggs in the manure, but it 
seems probable that eggs have frequently already been deposited in the 
manure before it is placed in the bin, and if such be the case the larvae may 
easily develop and go into the pupa state unless the manure is absolutely 
all cleaned out of the bin. Manure bins with impervious floors or so 
arranged that the floors can be easily and completely cleaned, and stables 
with water-tight floors (as now required in Washington) are coming 
to be regarded as specially important factors in the anti-fly campaign. 

Mosquitoes and Malaria 

The mosquito nuisance is another of the problems of public health and 
welfare which have been attacked by the Civic Federation with special 
vigor and success. In the year 1912 the Committee on Sanitation of the 
Federation organized a Special Committee on Mosquito Extermination, 
which raised over $5000 by popular subscription during the first year of its 
existence. Mr. P. L. Buttrick was engaged as Field Agent, and after a 
general survey of the local mosquito situation, $3500 was spent in draining 
and filling operations of a more or less permanent character, the remainder 
of the sum being devoted to securing temporary relief by oiling. 

There are three main factors in the New Haven mosquito problem: 
the salt marshes which breed the salt marsh mosquito, Culex sollicitans; 
the fresh water marshes and sluggish streams which breed the Anopheles 
mosquitoes; and fresh water pools, barrels, tin cans, catch basins, roof 
gutters and other small accumulations of stagnant water in which the rain 
barrel mosquito, Culex plpiens, thrives. As pointed out by Mr. Buttrick 
(Report on Mosquito Control, Documents of the Civic Federation of 
New Haven, No. 10, March, 1913), there are several hundred acres of 
salt marsh in the immediate vicinity of New Haven, a large portion of 
the area offering suitable breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The Cove 
marsh and Sandy and Old Field Creek marshes in West Haven, the area 



q6 Health Survey of New Haven 

bordering West River between Congress Avenue and the New York, 
New Haven & Hartford Railroad tracks to the west of New Haven, the 
section along Mill River in the center of the city, the Quinnipiac meadows 
to the east, and the Fort Hale, Morris Cove and South End marshes in 
East Haven are the principal areas of this sort. The most important fresh 
water marsh areas (of special significance as breeders of the Anopheles or 
malarial mosquito) in 1912 were Old Field Creek marsh above Blohm 
Street in West Haven, the section bordering West River above Congress 
Avenue, Beaver Swamp to the northwest, and isolated spots near Lake 
Whitney and on the watersheds of the Quinnipiac and Farm Rivers and 
of the brook which flows through East Haven east of Burr and Concord 
Streets. Drainage operations for the control of mosquito breeding were 
first begun in 1912 on the Morris Cove meadows, where 191 acres were 
drained, and 86 acres of the South End marsh, 81 acres in the lower West 
River Valley and 17 acres near Fort Hale were also treated. 

In 1915 an Act Providing for the Elimination of Mosquito Breeding 
Places or Areas was passed (Chapter 264, Public Acts of 1915), giving 
power to the director of the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station 
to make rules and orders concerning the elimination of mosquitoes and 
mosquito breeding places or areas, to ascertain where mosquitoes are 
breeding, and to survey, drain, fill or otherwise eliminate any mosquito 
breeding place. Subject to appeal to the courts by aggrieved parties, it 
was provided that the director shall drain, fill, or otherwise treat such 
areas, whenever funds have been provided for the purpose by the state or 
any city, borough or town, or by private contributions ; but no appropria- 
tion was made by the Legislature for carrying out the purposes of the act. 
It was further provided that the city, town or borough in which such im- 
provements are made shall keep drains unobstructed and maintain suitable 
tide gates for keeping them in operation. 

Four acres of marsh east of West River, near its mouth, were drained 
at the expense of the railroad in 1915, and about 90 acres on the west shore 
of West River between Spring Street and Congress Avenue were drained 
by private subscription in 1916. The Board of Finance has included in 
the 1917 budget an appropriation of $10,000 which it is believed will clear 
up some of the worst of the serious mosquito breeding areas which remain 
within the city limits (Fort Hale marshes, the shores of the lower 
Quinnipiac, areas still undrained in the West River Valley and Beaver 
Swamp). 

The Anti-Mosquito Committee, Inc., has kept an inspector in the field 
each summer to locate mosquito breeding places and keep existing drain- 
age ditches in good condition. 

In general, progress in the solution of the mosquito problem of New 



Health Survey of New Haven 47 

Haven may be considered most satisfactory and the completion of the 
drainage system planned for the coming year should bring substantial 
relief. In such projects, however, it is important that the diminution of 
the general mosquito nuisance to be obtained by the drainage of extensive 
salt marsh areas should not receive exclusive attention at the expense 
of the less obvious but more important problem of controlling fresh 
water areas which breed the malarial mosquito. Some of the worst 
places of this kind in Beaver Swamp and along West River have been 
eliminated and the Park Commission and the Civic Federation have done a 
considerable amount of oiling during the past few summers. Yet the 
Anopheles mosquitoes are far too abundant in New Haven and the 
malaria which results is a serious factor in the sickness rate of the city. 

Eleven physicians interviewed by us have courteously furnished us 
with records of 85 cases of malaria seen by them during 1916 and the 
location of these cases is plotted in Fig. 14. It will be noted that these 
data, which are of course very incomplete (twenty other physicians inter- 
viewed had all seen many cases but had no detailed records), indicate 
distinct centers of infection in the neighborhood of West River, Beaver 
Swamp, Mill River (near East Rock Park) and in Fair Haven. 

This is a problem which we believe deserves the very earnest attention 
of the city authorities. The salt marsh mosquito is a nuisance, but the 
malarial mosquito is a serious menace to health, and the opposition of 
private property owners (which as we are informed has delayed the 
clearing up of Beaver Swamp) should not be permitted to stand in the 
way of a vigorous campaign against this insect. We cannot believe that 
the courts would sustain any appeal against Chapter 264 of the Acts of 
1915 when a direct health menace was involved. We therefore urge as 

Recommendation XL That in the drainage operations planned for ipi? 
the fresh water areas which are likely to breed malarial mosquitoes (such 
as those in Beaver Swamp, on the shores of West River and of Lake 
Whitney, and in East Haven) should receive first attention. 

It must be remembered that the control of the malarial mosquito re- 
quires not only the drainage of extensive swampy breeding areas, but a 
constant surveillance to detect small isolated breeding places. Anopheles 
maculipennis is commonly found in sluggishly running streams and is 
comparatively easy to control, but A. punctipennis, which recent studies 
have shown is also a carrier of malaria, may thrive in all sorts of small 
accumulations of standing water. The suppression of these insects is 
an important part of the public health campaign and should be systemati- 
cally undertaken by the Board of Health. The Board now has a regula- 
tion prohibiting the exposure of "any can, kettle, pail, barrel or other 
receptacle containing rain or stagnant water ; unless the same is effectively 




FIG. XIV 

MOSQUITOES AND MALARIA 

The shaded areas indicate the principal malarial-mosquito-breeding marshlands of New Haven. 
Each dot represents the location of a case of malaria of which we have record during 1916. 



Health Survey of New Haven 49 

screened against mosquitoes." One of the sanitary inspectors of the Health 
Department devotes a part of his time during the summer months to the 
enforcement of this regulation. In the latter part of the summer of 1915 
he made 300 inspections of vacant lots and found 53 that contained recep- 
tacles or pools of stagnant water. All but three were cleaned up on his 
request, and the others under threat of prosecution by the City Attorney. 

The regulation cited above should be broadened so as to cover other 
mosquito breeding accumulations of water not in "receptacles." Further- 
more we believe that a definite attempt should be made to gain a complete 
knowledge of the prevalence of malaria in New Haven and of its relation 
to Anopheles breeding places. 

Recommendation XII. That the Board of Health modify its regula- 
tion in regard to mosquito breeding receptacles so as to declare any 
accumulation of stagnant water in which mosquitoes breed to be a public 
nuisance. 

Recommendation XIII. That the Board of Health adopt a regulation 
declaring malaria to be a notifiable disease and that provision be made for 
investigating each case as reported in order to determine the existence of 
local foci of infection. 



50 Health Survey of New Haven 



C. HEALTH ORGANIZATION OF THE CITY 

General Form of City Government 

The city of New Haven is governed under a charter which provides 
for the election every alternate year of a Mayor, Controller, Treasurer, 
Clerk, Collector, City Sheriff, and six Aldermen at large and of fifteen 
Aldermen representing the individual wards. The Corporation Counsel, 
Police Commissioners, Fire Commissioners and Chief, Director of Public 
Works, Park Commissioners, members of the Board of Health, Board 
of Education, and Board of Charities and Correction, and certain other 
executive officers are appointed by the Mayor. The municipal budget is 
framed and all bills against the city approved by a Board of Finance 
composed of the Mayor, the Controller, one Alderman, elected by the 
Board of Aldermen, and six citizens appointed by the Mayor. 

The city includes fifteen wards, three of which, Wards 13, 14 and 15, 
retain a certain degree of independent self-government. In these wards 
the Westville school district, the South school district and the Borough 
of Fair Haven East remain intact as before the consolidation of 1897, 
and public service in these wards and assessments and taxation for city 
improvements are limited by the status existing before that date. So far 
as public health matters are concerned all the fifteen wards are for 
practical purposes under the jurisdiction of the central municipal 
authority. 

The Board of Health, Its Duties and Powers 

The Board of Health, which exercises "care and control" over the 
Department of Health, is composed of five members, two of whom must 
be physicians. The members of the Board serve without pay. One 
member is appointed annually to serve for a term of five years and the 
Board chooses its own president. 

The Board has "all the jurisdiction, power, privileges and duties now 
by law vested in and imposed upon the town health officers in this state 
in their respective towns." Since Section 2521, Chapter 151, of the Gen- 
eral Statutes, provides that the town health officer "shall have and exercise 
all the powers necessary and proper for preserving the public health and 
preventing the spread of diseases," the authority granted would seem to be 
an extensive one. 

Further powers in regard to the inspection and regulation of the sale 



Health Survey of New Haven 51 

of foodstuffs, the licensing of milk vendors and the abatement of nui- 
sances are specifically granted. Most important of all it is provided that : 

"Said board may, from time to time, make such by-laws, rules, regu- 
lations and orders as in its judgment the preservation of the public health 
shall require, to be enforced in the same manner as city ordinances, which 
by-laws, rules, regulations, and orders shall be of full force and effect 
throughout the entire fifteen wards of said city; provided the same 
be not inconsistent with the constitution or laws of this state or of the 
United States or with the charter or ordinances of said city ; and provided 
that said board shall in no case impose a penalty of more than one hundred 
dollars for a single violation of any by-law and that no suit or process 
shall be brought for such violation unless said by-laws have been published 
at least four times in some daily newspaper printed in said city, before 
such violation occurred." (Section 94 of An Act Revising the Charter of 
the City of New Haven, as amended by act approved May 29, 1901.) 

The most important function of the Board of Health, to which we shall 
return in the succeeding section, is this function of formulating regula- 
tions ; for the wise exercise of such a quasi-legislative power can best be 
secured by the joint action of a board or council. In the direction of 
broad policies and perhaps also in the decision 'of specially important 
problems involving sharp conflict of interests the action of the Board of 
Health may be required. Experience in municipal government, in this 
and other fields, has made it amply clear, however, that ordinary details 
of administration, and particularly the appointment of subordinates and 
the assignment of their duties, should be concentrated in the hands of 
a single responsible executive. It seems to us unfortunate therefore that 
Section 25 of the Charter Act provides that all employees of the Depart- 
ment of Health shall be appointed and their respective powers and duties 
determined by the Board of Health. The high character of the Board as 
it has generally been constituted and the tact and judgment of the Health 
Officer, Dr. Wright, have on the whole secured good results from the 
present system. The principle, however, is a bad one and the appointment 
of inspectors, clerks, nurses and the like by a board of five members 
rather than by the Health Officer, still more the apportionment of their 
individual duties, tends to interject politics into a department and to 
militate against its administrative efficiency. We therefore urge as 

Recommendation XIV. That Section 95 of the Charter Act be amended 
so as to provide that the Board of Health shall appoint the Health Officer 
and determine the general policies of the department, while the conduct of 
administrative details shall be entrusted to the Health Officer, and all 
appointments of other employees shall be made by him under the rules of 
the Civil Service Board. 



2 Health Survey of New Haven 

Precedents for this policy may be found in the method of appointment 
now in force in the Department of Education and the Department of 
Public Works. 

The Sanitary Code 

One of the most fundamental principles of effective public health work 
is the principle that the Sanitary Code, for city or state, should be formu- 
lated, not by a general legislative body, but by a small expert board or 
council. 

Sanitary regulations in order to be at the same time reasonable and 
effective must go into a detail far beyond the possibilities of ordinary 
legislation and should be modified to meet changing conditions in a way 
which cannot be secured by the action of large legislative bodies. The 
delegation of quasi-legislative powers of course requires confidence in the 
body to whom they are entrusted, but experience has shown that in this 
way and in this way alone can adequate health protection be assured. 

The City Charter as noted above does actually confer upon the Board of 
Health the power to make regulations not inconsistent with ordinances of 
the Board of Aldermen. In practice, however, many of the more im- 
portant matters have been referred to the Aldermen to be embodied in 
ordinances, often without result; while in some cases regulations made 
by the Board have been rendered null and void by conflicting ordinances 
enacted for the purpose. Dr. C. J. Bartlett, President of the Board of 
Health, alluded to this matter as follows in the Annual Report of the 
Health Department for 1915 : 

"The most serious external condition that confronts the department, in 
my opinion, is its inability to secure adequate local health regulations. As 
examples of this I need only to mention the vain attempts of this board in 
previous years to secure a much-needed amendment to our milk ordinance, 
or to remind you of the fate of the health regulation regarding the taking 
of clams and oysters for direct consumption from our grossly polluted 
harbor, which regulation was entirely nullified by an ordinance later passed 
by the then Board of Aldermen. If New Haven hopes for the best health 
conditions, it must be willing to adopt approved methods of securing 
these. Its Board of Health must be given a free hand in making adequate 
regulations in its own field of work. This broad view of granting neces- 
sary powers to a board of health in order to make it efficient has been 
adopted both in New York City and New York State upon the basis that 
prevention of disease and death, in so far as possible, is of prime impor- 
tance to the welfare of the city and the state." 

The city of New Haven has at present no complete and effective sani- 
tary code. Sections 382 to 397 of the ordinances of the city provided for 



Health Survey of New Haven 53 

the reporting and isolation and exclusion from school of certain com- 
municable diseases and prohibited the distribution of samples of medi- 
cines ; and a new and more comprehensive ordinance on the reporting and 
isolation of communicable diseases has recently been passed. Board of 
Health regulations provide for the sanitary handling of foods, prohibit 
spitting and regulate lodging houses, the keeping of poultry and the main- 
tenance of mosquito breeding receptacles. There are no provisions what- 
ever in regard to the control of milk supply or of the quality of foods, 
except for protection in handling from dust and flies. There is no 
machinery provided for dealing with tuberculosis. There are no specific 
regulations in regard to nuisances (other than those dealing with spitting 
and the care of manure). There are no regulations in regard to the sani- 
tation of theaters and other public buildings, of schools, factories or public 
conveyances. 

Recommendation XV. That the Board of Health prepare and adopt 
a comprehensive and up-to-date Sanitary Code; and that the Health 
Committee of the Civic Federation urge upon the Board of Aldermen the 
propriety of permitting to the Board the free exercise of this power 
within the legitimate field of public health, unhampered by aldermanic 
ordinances. 

It will be noted that instead of the present plan under which the Alder- 
men and the Board of Health divide the task of code-making, and the 
Board of Health and the Health Officer divide the work of administra- 
tion, we are suggesting that the formulation of the Sanitary Code be left to 
the small and expert Board of Health and the executive work of the de- 
partment be entrusted to a single responsible head, the Health Officer, a 
policy in accord not only with the best health department practice but 
with all modern tendencies in municipal government. We believe that 
the delegation of the code-making power to the Board of Health may be 
left to the discretion of the Board of Aldermen without alteration of the 
organic law. If, however, the Board of Aldermen should prove unwill- 
ing to leave this power in the hands of the body best qualified to exercise 
it a change in the charter would seem essential. 

Organisation of the Department 

The present staff of the Department of Health includes the following 
officers : 

Health Officer, Frank W. Wright, M.D. 

Clerk, Ward Bailey. 

Bacteriologist, Dwight M. Lewis, M.D. 

Farm Inspector. 

Milk Inspector. 



54 Health Survey of New Haven 

Two Food Inspectors. 

Five Sanitary Inspectors. 

Tenement House Inspector. 

Three Medical Inspectors of Schools. 

Dentist and Assistant. 

Seven School Nurses. 

Stenographer. 

Technician. 

An additional inspector will be provided this year (1917). 

The internal organization of the department is of the simplest, all of 
the employees being directly responsible to the Health Officer and all 
except the bacteriologist, who enjoys a considerable measure of inde- 
pendence, keeping in constant touch with him in regard to all details of 
their work. The inspectors report to Dr. Wright each morning and 
receive orders from him, while the school physicians and school nurses 
meet him for a conference once a week. Mr. Bailey, though he bears only 
the title of clerk, is in effect the secretary of the department, attending to" 
routine correspondence and being in charge of the office in the absence 
of the Health Officer. 

Such a system as this is admirable in a small office, but for the health 
department of a city of 150,000 there would be many advantages in a 
somewhat better developed plan of organization. With the extensions of 
the work which seem urgently called for in the future such a plan will 
be essential. 

A better system of record keeping would materially contribute to 
efficiency. Complaints for instance are at present simply entered in a 
"blotter." The individual inspector keeps record of his assignments in 
an ordinary notebook. Mr. Bailey was sent out by the Board of Health 
last year to examine systems of office administration in use by the health 
departments of nine large cities, and in regard to this matter he made 
the following recommendations : 

"I believe the sanitary records should be made as concise, simple and 
complete as possible. I would record all complaints either in an office 
record book or better, I think, on the Buffalo stub system. I would have 
all complaints, whether received at the office or outside, plainly numbered 
and all orders, notices or reinspections afterwards to bear the same 
number. I would have a record card filled out by the Inspector on the 
premises. I would have a stub system of orders issued by the Inspector, 
whenever possible, upon the premises. I would have all orders, rein- 
spections, notices of any kind, extensions and prosecution endorsed fully 
upon the record card. I would file the record card with copies of all 



Health Survey of New Haven 55 

notices, orders or correspondence in a filing envelope, the Buffalo plan, 
the outside of the envelope plainly showing the number, the situation of 
the nuisance, the party served upon, the date of order or notices or rein- 
spections, the date and result of prosecution. This envelope gives the 
entire history of the case with every fact necessary for prosecution. I 
would index this envelope by street and number and file the same by date 
of the expiration of the orders given ; if the time is extended change the 
filing date. This system presents daily in the office all the pending busi- 
ness which as a rule should be first attended to. No excuse can then be 
given for delays or overlooking work. I would have a daily time report 
of the Inspector showing when and what work he had done the previous 
day. From this report all pending business can be checked and the 
Inspector's attention called to any oversight. I would have this system 
apply as far as practicable to all our Inspectors.'' 

These excellent recommendations were approved and blank forms 
actually prepared for carrying them into effect; but after a half-hearted 
trial of a few days the department went back to the old methods. 

The inspectors make daily and monthly reports to Dr. Wright of the 
number of inspections made, but as to thoroughness of work and 
economy in the use of time they are practically without supervision. In 
the case of the school nurses, as we shall point out later on, the effects 
of lack of supervision are serious, and similar results must in some 
measure be felt all through the department. It is impossible for the 
Health Officer to keep his hand on twenty-five employees doing such 
different classes of specialized work as are involved in a modern health 
department and at the same time to devote the requisite energy to the 
development of broad lines of policy. In order to improve the details of 
office administration in the interest of efficiency and economy and at the 
same time to free the Health Officer for the development of broad 
policies along the newer lines of public health, we believe that something 
in the nature of bureau organization should be introduced. The ten milk, 
food and sanitary inspectors (except the inspector employed on com- 
municable disease work) form one natural unit which might properly be 
directed by a single head. The school nurses and such other nurses as 
may be employed by the department (except those who may deal specifi- 
cally with communicable diseases) form another; while the control of 
communicable disease and the work of the laboratory constitute two other 
natural divisions of health department work. We shall make specific 
recommendations in regard to these points as the several topics are taken 
up later on. 

We cannot, however, leave this general subject of administration 
without an expression of warm appreciation for what Dr. Wright has 



5<5 Health Survey of New Haven 

accomplished with the machinery at his disposal. Both methods and 
morale are important, but morale is by far the more essential of the two ; 
and this the New Haven Health Department has. So far as we have seen 
the whole force is animated by a spirit of loyalty and devotion to the 
work of the department that constitutes a rare tribute to the character and 
the personality of its chief executive. 

One matter which should receive serious consideration is the limited 
office space allotted to the department. The bacteriological laboratory is 
in a small attic room in the police court building. The Health Officer and 
eleven employees are crowded into a single room in the City Hall. 
Adequate provision for the department was to have been made in connec- 
tion with the remodeling of the old Court House building ; but complica- 
tions appear to have arisen which threaten to interfere with this plan. 
Some relief is urgently needed. We therefore make 

Recommendation XVI. That the need for adequate quarters for the 
Department of Health be vigorously urged upon the proper city 
authorities. 

Inspection of Nuisances 

Of the five sanitary inspectors on the staff of the department one is 
assigned to the work of placarding and disinfecting in cases of communi- 
cable disease, under the direction of Dr. Lewis. A second devotes himself 
during the summer to the task of fly and mosquito control, and during 
the winter to the inspection of barber shops. The other three conduct the 
regular sanitary inspection each in a particular district, one of the three 
also having charge of the inspection of theaters. 

The three district inspectors attend to all complaints and also carry on 
a systematic house-to-house inspection so far as time permits. Their 
daily reports show the places at which complaints are investigated, the 
streets visited and the orders and notices served, the latter being also 
recorded on a stub system. Monthly reports are presented in somewhat 
greater detail, the summary of the monthly reports for the year 1915 
being given in the last annual report as follows : 

WORK OF THREE DISTRICT SANITARY INSPECTORS, 1915 

Inspections 18,965 

Nuisances found 3,100 

Nuisances abated 2,907 

Complaints received 897 

Complaints justifiable 678 

Cases of unsanitary plumbing corrected 115 

Water closets made sanitary 169 

Privy vaults abolished 104 

New toilets installed . 129 



Health Survey of New Haven 57 

So far as these records go and so far as we have been able to ascertain 
from other sources, the work of the sanitary inspectors seems to be 
generally efficient and satisfactory. We feel quite certain, however, that 
the keeping of records on a proper card and envelope system (such as 
was suggested by Mr. Bailey) would in the end facilitate their work and, 
since the envelopes could be arranged by date while "active" and after- 
ward by streets, they would provide an invaluable index to past and 
present sanitary conditions. 

The special inspector assigned to fly and mosquito control and inspec- 
tion of barber shops reports the inspection of 4356 barns, 407 barber 
shops, and 2335 tenement houses (1357 of the latter inspections at night). 

In considering the proper place of nuisance inspection in the work of 
the Health Department it is important to keep in mind the distinction 
between conditions which are merely offensive to sight and smell and 
those which contribute directly to the spread of disease. Miscellaneous 
rubbish in back yards is an example of the former class, exposed privies 
and fly-breeding manure piles of the latter. We believe that privies, stables 
and mosquito-breeding pools deserve considerably more attention than 
they are now receiving in New Haven; and it is the belief of the Health 
Department that the Housing Inspector requires assistance in his special 
field. 

In his letter to us under date of April 18, 1916, Dr. Wright has pointed 
out the proper way to make sure that the vital health-protective work of 
the department shall be fully carried out, by freeing its inspectors of the 
work of attending to the ordinary nuisances which have no definite sani- 
tary bearing. He suggests that "The inspection and responsibility for 
conditions of yards, vacant lots, dumps, etc., be placed upon the police 
department, the present corps of sanitary inspectors to confine their 
efforts to inside conditions and matters that affect them, or are affected 
by them." 

With this suggestion we are in hearty accord ; and we therefore make 

Recommendation XVII. That the Board of Aldermen take such 
action as may be necessary to place responsibility for the inspection and 
control of ordinary nuisances, such as are due to accumulation of rubbish 
in vacant lots, yards and the like and the investigation of complaints 
relating thereto, in the hands of the police department, so that the in- 
spectors of the Health Department may devote their attention to the prob- 
lems of fly and mosquito control, the .protection of privy vaults, the im- 
provement of housing conditions, and other matters bearing more directly 
upon health. 

We feel, as pointed out above, that the work of the inspection force 
would gain from a better system of record keeping and a closer adminis- 



$8 Health Survey of New Haven 

trative supervision. It seems ta us that the f ood and milk inspectors as 
well as the tenement house inspector might be included for this purpose 
under a single head. It would be only a fitting recognition of good service 
to appoint this new official from the ranks of the present staff; and he 
should of course be selected for merit by a civil service examination in 
which experience and the personal factor as displayed in an oral test 
receive due weight. 

We therefore urge as 

Recommendation XVIII. That the Farm Inspector, the Milk Inspector, 
the two Food Inspectors, the four Sanitary Inspectors (excluding the one 
assigned to communicable disease work} and the Tenement House In- 
spector be organized as a Bureau of Inspection, with a Chief or Super- 
vising Inspector at a salary of $2000, to be chosen by competitive examina- 
tion from the ranks of the present staff. 

One obstacle which has interfered with a maximum of efficiency in 
the work of the Health Department has been the difficulty in securing 
prompt and effective backing from the courts. The Health Department 
wisely relies on educational methods wherever possible, but with the 
occasional stubborn offender vigorous legal pressure must be applied. 

The City Attorney has for many years had but one assistant, while 
the business handled has increased more than threefold. The collection 
of personal taxes alone has added tremendously to the burden of work in 
his office. We believe for the good of other city bureaus, as well as for 
the sake of the Health Department, that this condition should be remedied ; 
and suggest as 

Recommendation XIX. That the Civic Federation through some 
appropriate committee consider the question of the adequacy of the staff 
of the City Attorney's office to the present needs of the city, and the 
advisability of taking steps to secure the appointment of an additional 
assistant in that office. 

Supervision of Food Supplies 

The supervision of food supplies (other than milk, which will be 
separately considered) is in the hands of Food Inspector J. J. O'Gorman 
and Assistant Food Inspector H. J. Frederick. Mr. O'Gorman inspects 
restaurants, bakeries, macaroni factories and candy kitchens, and Mr. 
Frederick, meat markets and stores. During 1915, 7283 inspections were 
made of markets and stores, 2570 of restaurants, 1878 of bakeries, and 
417 of candy kitchens. 

Dr. Wright has attempted to secure the passage of an ordinance requir- 
ing the licensing of all places where foods are sold, but the courts have 




FIG. XV 
Samples of Score Cards used in the Food Inspection Work of the Department of Health 



Health Survey of New Haven 5P 

apparently decided that, so far as restaurants are concerned, this cannot 
be done. The department has, however, accomplished excellent results 
by a campaign of education supplemented by specific legal proceedings 
when necessary. Each type of establishment has a special score card on 
which the results of the inspection are recorded. These score cards are 
of Dr. Wright's own devising and seem to us simple and satisfactory. 
The results of the scoring are published once a year in the monthly 
bulletin of the department. The bulletin for April, 1916, for instance, 
contained the current and previous scores of 79 bakeries and the 
bulletin for January, 1917, the scores of 89 lunchrooms. Succeeding 
scores show a marked and progressive improvement as a result of the 
stimulating effect of these publicity methods. For instance, on the first 
visit only 13 restaurants scored 90 or above and 27 were below 70, while 
on a second visit 31 were 90 or above and only 17 below 70. Mr. 
O'Gorman reports that $50,000 was spent by owners or operators in the 
improvement of bakeries in 1915 as a result of the campaign. 

A number of typical food stores, bakeries and restaurants have been 
inspected by two of us (C.-E. A. W. and D. G.), alone and in company 
with the department inspectors. We have been impressed with the high 
standards of cleanliness which generally prevail and believe that New 
Haven may feel well satisfied with the results attained. 

In one respect, however, and that the most important one of all, the 
food supply of New Haven is entirely unprotected. Diseased human 
beings constitute a far more serious danger to foods than uncleanly 
surroundings; and progressive health departments are now providing 
for the systematic medical examination of food handlers to guard against 
such infection of foods as has caused serious epidemics in the past. The 
past high typhoid rate in New Haven makes such a precaution seem 
particularly desirable. Dr. Wright has urged that measures should be 
taken to provide this important safeguard, and we are wholly in accord 
with him. 

Recommendation XX. That provision should be made in the Sanitary 
Code for requiring the medical examination of food handlers along the 
general lines of the New York City Ordinance, upon this subject. 

There is one other food-supply problem which requires attention, the 
control of the sale of meat from diseased animals. Over 90 per cent of 
the meat products consumed in New Haven are shipped in interstate 
commerce and are therefore subject to Federal inspection. The rest of 
the supply, of local origin, comes in the main from slaughterhouses in 
West Haven. These animals are inspected at the time of killing by 
Jewish rabbis (koshermen) and only meat which reaches their high stan- 
dards can be sold to Orthodox Jews. The carcasses rejected by the 



<5o Health Survey of New Haven 

koshermen, however, are habitually sent to New Haven and sold in the 
poorer stores to the non-Jewish population. The Health Officer of West 
Haven has proved generally cooperative and permits Mr. Frederick to 
visit the West Haven slaughterhouse, but the New Haven officials have 
no power there and the effective control of the situation is impossible 
under present conditions. On an inspection made by one of us (C.-E. 
A. W.), a carcass was seen hung up ready for, the market which bore the 
mark indicating rejection by the kosherman and still showed distinct 
evidences of advanced tuberculosis in spite of the effort that had evidently 
been made to cut away all the parts which are most commonly diseased. 

Dr. Wright urges the "establishment of a municipal slaughterhouse 
and the passage of ordinances that require all meats to be either federally 
or locally inspected." Mr. Frederick (who is not a veterinarian but has 
a good practical knowledge of meat inspection) does what can be done in 
the way of detecting diseased meat in the stores, and during 1915 con- 
demned 5164 pounds of meat and 144 pounds of poultry. Effective 
control, however, absolutely requires ante mortem and post mortem in- 
spection at the time of slaughter, and this can only be secured in a 
slaughterhouse within the city limits and under the control of the Health 
Department. Bridgeport has a municipal slaughterhouse and an excel- 
lent ordinance covering the whole subject. Such a slaughterhouse need 
not be costly to construct and its operation would be covered by the fees 
charged for slaughtering. The danger to health from diseased meat is 
not quantitatively as serious as is often thought to be the case, but it is 
a sufficiently real one to deserve attention. 

Recommendation XXL That steps should be taken to provide a 
municipal slaughterhouse within the city limits and that regulations be 
included in the Sanitary Code prohibiting the sale of meat which has not 
been passed at the time of slaughter by either Federal inspectors or those 
of the local department of health. 

Supervision of Milk Supply 

Of all food products milk is the one that is most likely to be a factor in 
the spread of communicable disease. It may carry the germs of tubercu- 
losis from the cow to man. It very frequently becomes infected from 
human cases of disease or carriers; and even when not specifically in- 
fected the ordinary dirt germs which it contains play an important part 
in causing digestive summer diseases of children. The proper safe- 
guarding of the milk supply is therefore one of the primary essentials of 
sanitation. 

The first step in controlling the condition of the milk supply is inspec- 
tion of farms, dairies and food stores to see that this very perishable 



Health Survey of New Haven 61 

foodstuff is produced and handled under reasonably cleanly conditions. 
This phase of the work is provided for in New Haven by the employment 
of two inspectors, one of whom inspects the farms, while the other inspects 
the dairies and visits the food stores to see that they comply with the 
Board of Health regulation which requires such stores to take out a 
license for the sale of milk. In 1915, 1543 inspections were made of 763 
farms shipping milk to New Haven, 4152 inspections of the dairies of 125 
dealers handling this milk, and 2526 visits to 774 stores selling it. The 
results of the farm and dairy inspections are recorded on score cards of a 
type devised by the New Haven Department of Health, which are very 
similar to the cards used for store and restaurant inspection, specifying 
only a few broad points and permitting a wide latitude of opinion to the 
Inspector. Such a type of card seems quite adequate for store inspection, 
but in the case of farms and dairies elaborate score cards have been 
devised and more or less standardized by various health departments 
and by the United States Department of Agriculture which seem to us 
much more satisfactory. They go into such detail that the inspector has 
merely to record the presence or absence of certain specified conditions, 
while in filling out the New Haven card he assigns from 5 to 10 points 
to a single item merely according to his general subjective impressions. 
The dairy score cards in use elsewhere are, however, at this time in 
process of modification as a result of studies of the relative value of 
various factors in milk production. Perhaps it will be as well to wait 
for the outcome of these revisions before making a change; but the 
present New Haven cards do not seem to us to be adequate ones. 

Farms failing to score 70 points on the scale of 100 used are not per- 
mitted to ship milk to New Haven; and the results of the dairy scoring 
are published at intervals in the monthly bulletin of the department. The 
sale of dipped milk is prohibited and practically all the milk sold in the 
city is delivered in bottles, a condition which is highly gratifying. 

The dairy inspector takes four samples of milk each month from each 
of the hundred-odd dealers, 5033 samples in all being taken in 1915. 
These samples are examined in the laboratory for butter fat and total 
solids (to detect milk that has been watered or is otherwise of deficient 
food value). Smears are also made and examined under the microscope 
to discover streptococci or pus cells from cows with diseased udders. No 
direct physical test is made for dirt, nor is any bacteriological count 
attempted. Dr. Lewis, the bacteriologist of the department, believes that 
he can recognize certain spore-forming bacteria on the smears which he 
considers indicative of pollution, but this is a test which so far as we are 
aware does not rest on any basis of generally demonstrated fact. 

Since the bacteriological count is accepted by sanitarians with practical 



62 Health Survey of New Haven 

unanimity as the best test of the general sanitary quality of milk we 
had a series of 200 samples collected and examined in this way by Mr. D. 
O'Brien in order to gain an idea of the general condition of the New 
Haven supply. The samples were collected during July and August so 
that they represent the worst conditions of the year so far as temperature 
is concerned. The milk was obtained by purchase either from wagons or 
from stores in various districts and it is believed represents a fair average 
sample of the supply of the city at that season. Plates were made 
promptly after the collection of the samples and incubated under stan- 
dard conditions on lactose agar for 48 hours at 37 C. 

The general distribution of the results obtained is indicated in the table 
below and in Fig. 16. We have classified the counts obtained in four 
groups, under 100,000 bacteria per c.c., 100,000 to 1,000,000, 1,000,- 
000 to 5,000,000 and over 5,000,000. One hundred thousand bac- 
teria per c.c. is the maximum number of bacteria permitted, accord- 
ing to generally accepted standards, in milk to be drunk raw, while 
1,000,000 is the maximum number generally allowed for milk to be used 
for cooking. The milk samples are arranged below in three groups, 
including the raw milk, the bulk pasteurized milk, and the milk pas- 
teurized in the bottle. 



BACTERIAL CONDITION OF NEW HAVEN MILK, JULY AND AUGUST, 1916 

Number of samples showing indicated numbers 
of bacteria per c. c. 

100,000 1,000,000 

Under to to Over 

100,000 1,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000 

Raw milk 7 37 58 57 

Bulk pasteurized milk 3 4 2 2 

Bottle pasteurized milk 11 13 4 2 



With all due allowances for the season of the year these results are 
nothing less than astounding. Of the raw milk samples 115 out of 159 
or 72 per cent showed over a million bacteria per c.c., which accord- 
ing to the rules of the Commission on Milk Standards would make 
it unsalable until pasteurized, its use even after pasteurization being only 
permitted for cooking. The law of the state (Chapter 221, Section 18, 
Public Statutes of 1911) says that "milk containing more than one million 
bacteria per cubic centimeter shall be considered impure milk." 

The highest count obtained was 1,028,000,000, which must be nearly a 
record; but counts of twenty to thirty million were not uncommon. A 
few specific cases of particularly poor supplies are noted below. 



Raw 





Pasteurized 




Under 
100.000 



100,000 

i.ooojooo 




1.000.000 
5.000.000 



Over 
5.000,000 



Bacteria per Cubic Centimeter 



FIG. XVI 

Diagram illustrating the distribution of 200 samples of New Haven milk according to Bacterial 
Content. Samples of Raw Milk above, samples of Pasteurized Milk belw 



Health Survey of New Haven 
BACTERIAL COUNTS OF. PARTICULARLY POOR SUPPLIES 



Dealer 
D ... 
F ... 
L ... 
M .., 
T ... 
Z . 



Number of samples showing bacteria per c. c. 


ader 
0,000 


100,000 
to 
1,000,000 


1,000,000 
to 
5,000,000 


Ove 

5,000,( 





1 


9 


1 








2 


4 








2 


4 








3 


3 





1 





8 








1 


5 



In contrast with these figures it should be mentioned that one dairy 
supplying the city, the Fairlea Farms, has been subject for some years to 
voluntary bacteriological control, having, as we are informed, been 
examined weekly with counts almost uniformly under 10,000. A number 
of examinations of this milk were made in the laboratory of the Depart- 
ment of Public Health, during the winter and spring of 1915-16, with 
similar results, but the data were obtained for another purpose and are 
not included in the tabulation above. 

In regard to the general quality of the milk supply of New Haven, 
Mr. O'Brien's data do not stand alone. Through the courtesy of Prof. 
L. F. Rettger we have been furnished with the results of 62 examinations 
of milk samples collected during the months of February to May, 1914, 
and examined in the Laboratories of Bacteriology and Hygiene of the 
Sheffield Scientific School by Messrs. N. Berman and R. R. Harkness. 
These investigators found 19 samples with counts under 100,000, 24 
between 100,000 and 1,000,000, 12 between 1,000,000 and 5,000,000 and 
7 over 5,000,000, showing as would be expected from the season of the 
year lower counts than ours. Even here, however, 19 out of 62 samples 
or 31 per cent were over the million mark. Furthermore Messrs. Ber- 
man and Harkness made a special test for the presence of the tubercle 
bacillus in the milk (which Mr. O'Brien did not do) and found it present 
in 4 out of 42 samples examined. 

Ten years ago a similar though more extensive study of the bacterio- 
logical condition of the milk supply of New Haven was made by Dr. 
C. J. Bartlett, the results being published in full in the New Haven 
Register for October 21, 1906, and in the Yale Medical Journal for 
February, 1907. Professor Bartlett in the examination of 154 samples of 
milk found counts ranging from 5,000 to 17,500,000, two-thirds of the 
counts being over half a million. This study had much to do with pro- 
moting the inception of farm inspection in New Haven. 

The high bacterial counts recorded by Messrs. O'Brien, Berman and 
Harkness do not in any sense indicate that the system of farm and store 



Health Survey of New Haven 65 

inspection in force in New Haven has been at fault. We shall point out 
further on that the infant mortality of New Haven showed a marked and 
gratifying decrease in 1907, coincident with the beginning of the farm 
inspection work. High counts of bacteria in milk are frequently found 
rather as a result of imperfect cooling and consequent multiplication than 
of initially dirty milk, and this we believe to be the case in New Haven, 
Such bacterial multiplication can only be controlled by ordinances re- 
quiring the cooling of milk and in particular by systematic bacteriological 
control. 

The ultimate object of the sanitarian in dealing with milk supply is to 
secure the pasteurization by adequate methods of all but a small amount 
of milk of special certified grade. Experience has made it amply clear 
that no raw milk is safe unless produced from tuberculin tested herds 
under sanitary conditions, which are so costly as to bring the price up to 
15 or 20 cents a quart; and even milk of this latter type should in our 
judgment be pasteurized in the home in order to remove all possible 
danger. Modern methods of pasteurization offer a simple and efficient 
method of securing a safe supply at a reasonable cost. New York City 
has at last succeeded in securing a practically complete pasteurization of 
its milk supply ; and this is the goal toward which most progressive health 
departments are aiming. 

New Haven is fortunate in having one large milk supply, that of the 
New Haven Dairy, which is not only pasteurized but pasteurized in the 
final package, a metal capped bottle. The high counts found in six samples 
of this milk out of thirty examined (see table, page 62) suggest that the 
operation of the plant has not always been perfect, but the overwhelming 
superiority of this milk to the general supply of the city is indicated in the 
table, and the process is one which can, and should, be made to yield a 
uniformly excellent product. It is indeed the only ideally safe method 
since there is no possibility of infection in the sealed bottle after the heat 
is once applied. 

The problem before New Haven is the securing of a milk supply which 
is either of certified grade or efficiently pasteurized. This cannot be done 
all at once. The proper procedure, as it has been worked out for New 
York City and more recently for New York State and many other places, 
is first of all to establish a grading system by which all milk shall be sold 
in receptacles, clearly marked as belonging to one of three grades, A, B or 
C, and as either raw or pasteurized. Grade A is for the use of children, 
Grade B for adults and Grade C for cooking only, and the grades are 
based on dairy scores and on bacteriological counts. After such a grad- 
ing system has been in force it is possible step by step to educate the 
public as to the danger of raw milk of Grades C and B, and finally to 



66 Health Survey of New Haven 

eliminate first one and then the other of these dangerous raw milks from 
the market. 

Any organized campaign for the betterment of the milk supply must 
rest on a systematic study of bacterial content, which should be promptly 
provided for in the budget of the Health Department laboratory. Such 
determinations are of vastly more moment than the detection of low fat 
content milk. On the inspection side the control of pasteurizing plants is 
much more vital than farm or dairy inspection. Pasteurization by the 
so-called "flash" system (high heat for a short period) is entirely un- 
reliable and no milk should be sold as pasteurized that has not been 
treated by the holding system (heated to 140 to 145 for thirty 
minutes). Yet the Board of Health at present exercises no control what- 
ever over these plants, some of which are known to be operated on the 
flash system. A new inspector is to be added to the staff of the depart- 
ment in 1917 to be assigned as we understand to farm inspection. If 
he could be trained to supervise the operation of pasteurizing plants it 
would be far more valuable. We therefore make the following recom- 
mendations as to successive steps to be taken for the safeguarding of the 
milk supply of New Haven. 

Recommendation XXII. That provision be made for the systematic 
bacteriological examination of all milk sold in New Haven, for the 
determination of the numbers of bacteria contained therein. 

Recommendation XXIII. That a regulation be passed defining pas- 
teurisation as heating to at least 140 for at least 50 minutes, and that 
provision be made for systematic and frequent inspection of pasteurizing 
plants to see that these conditions are attained. 

Recommendation XXIV. That all milk sold in New Haven be graded 
and labeled according to the general plan that has been followed by the 
New York State Department of Health and other official bodies. 

Recommendation XXV. That every possible effort be made to secure 
as rapidly as may be feasible the pasteurization by the method defined 
above of all milk not of certified grade, under the supervision and control 
of the Board of Health. ' 

Control of Communicable Diseases 

This very important phase of health department activities is now 
governed by an ordinance very recently (February, 1917) adopted by 
the Board of Aldermen, an ordinance which on the whole is adequate 
and satisfactory. There are three omissions from the list of reportable 
diseases, chicken pox, malaria and rabies (or still better all dog bites), 
which the Board of Health should remedy by special regulation as it has 



Health Survey of New Haven 67 

the power to do. The reporting of chicken pox is desirable in view of 
the likelihood that this disease may be confused with smallpox, and 
malaria, as has been pointed out above, constitutes one of New Haven's 
important health problems. 

The actual supervision of communicable diseases is in the hands of Dr. 
D. M. Lewis, bacteriologist to the department. He has all the laboratory 
work of the department to do, as well as the communicable disease con- 
trol, with only the assistance of a technician in the former and of one 
sanitary inspector in the latter field. 

The reporting of cases of communicable disease, which must be the 
basis for all effective control, is not yet as satisfactory as could be 
desired. A reasonably good idea of the completeness of reporting may 
be gained from a comparison of fatality rates (ratio of deaths to reported 
cases) on the assumption that actual fatality does not vary widely in 
different localities. The table below shows the recorded fatality rates 
for New Haven and New York for 1915 as given in Public Health 
Reports for June 30, 1916. It does not seem likely that diphtheria and 
typhoid fever were really much more severe in New Haven. It is more 
probable that about a quarter of the typhoid cases and about a third of 
the diphtheria cases escaped report. The small actual number of deaths 
from scarlet fever in New Haven makes this figure of little significance. 



FATALITY RATES (DEATHS PER 100 REPORTED CASES) 



Diphtheria 


New York 

84 


New Haven 

128 


Measles 


1.6 


1.7 


Scarlet fever 


29 


10 


Typhoid fever . 


13.5 


17.1 



All the above figures, both for New Haven and for New York, as well as 
those which could be cited for other communities, indicate that the 
reporting of cases of communicable disease is everywhere regrettably 
incomplete. This is so important a matter that we urge as 

Recommendation XXVI. That special efforts be made to call to the 
attention of the medical profession the importance of prompt reporting of 
all cases of communicable disease and to secure the vigorous enforcement 
of the law which requires such notification. 

In the past, deaths from communicable disease were reported to the 
Department of Health only by the undertaker. The new ordinance 
requires a report from the physician in attendance, a duplication of his 
report to the Registrar of Vital Statistics, which would be unnecessary if 



68 Health Survey of New Haven 

the registration of vital statistics were under the Health Department as 
it should be. 

Every case of acute communicable disease reported is personally in- 
vestigated by Dr. Lewis and an epidemiological card is filled out which 
constitutes the original record of the case. An index file by residence is 
also maintained for all cases and carriers and charts are currently kept 
showing the distribution of each important disease by wards and by 
weeks. These records are most valuable, and in general the epidemio- 
logical work of Dr. Lewis is deserving of high praise. One device for 
getting in touch with early cases seems particularly praiseworthy. When- 
ever a child is absent from school for three half-sessions the teacher is 
requested to report the fact to Dr. Lewis. Such absentees are at once 
followed up if they reside in a neighborhood where communicable disease 
has been recorded, and this procedure makes it possible to find many new 
cases in their early and most dangerous stages. 

The provisions in the new ordinance which govern isolation and dis- 
infection, during and subsequent to cases of communicable disease, are 
reasonable and adequate. The city is fortunate in having admirable 
facilities at its disposal, for the isolation of patients who cannot be prop- 
erly cared for at home, in the Isolation Ward of the New Haven Hospital. 
This building has 75 beds and patients sent by the Health Department 
are cared for at a charge to the city of $2 a day. Eighty-eight patients 
were thus provided for in 1915 and 97 in 1916. The hospitalized cases in 
1916 were distributed among the various diseases as follows : diphtheria, 
19; poliomyelitis, 23; scarlet fever, 24; erysipelas, 14; ophthalmia or 
gonococcal infections of other types, 7 ; meningitis, 3 ; measles, 1 ; whoop- 
ing cough, 5 ; chicken pox, 1. Nineteen cases out of 164 reported cases 
of diphtheria, and 24 out of 185 reported cases of scarlet fever seem a 
small proportion to require hospital care at city expense. In New Haven, 
as elsewhere, it is probable that many cases of typhoid fever are treated 
at home which might be better cared for in the general ward of a hospital. 

Judging from general experience elsewhere it seems doubtful whether 
the city of New Haven is taking full advantage of the isolation building 
to which it contributed half the cost of construction. We have been 
informed by persons conversant with the situation that cases are at times 
now cared for at home which in the public interest and for their own 
sake might better receive hospital care, and could do so if appropriations 
for this purpose were increased. 

Recommendation XXVII. That the opportunities for hospital isolation 
offered by the Isolation Building of the New Haven Hospital be more 
fully utilized, and that cases of typhoid fever be hospitalised whenever 
they cannot be properly cared for at home. 



Health Survey of New Haven 6p 

One of the particularly noteworthy aspects of communicable disease 
control in New Haven is the emphasis laid upon the carrier, a person who 
may be well or only suffering from comparatively slight chronic symptoms 
and yet is cultivating in his body and distributing to others the virulent 
germs of disease. The new communicable disease ordinance specifically 
provides for the isolation of carriers on the same terms as persons who are 
actively sick. Dr. Lewis has laid special stress on this danger in his own 
work, and has succeeded in locating such carriers and in checking local 
outbreaks of disease due to them in a number of instances in which the 
methods ordinarily used by health departments would have failed. He 
has made real contributions to epidemiology in this regard. 

Another thing for which the Department of Health deserves special 
credit is the abandonment of fumigation as a routine procedure after the 
termination of a case of communicable disease. Experience has shown 
very clearly in recent years that it is rather people than things that carry 
pathogenic germs. If proper isolation and systematic disinfection of 
discharges have been secured during the course of the disease terminal 
fumigation will generally be unnecessary; if these conditions have not 
been secured terminal fumigation will be useless, for other susceptible 
members of the household will long since have been exposed. Fumigation 
is still performed in particular instances where it may seem desirable. Its 
abandonment as a routine procedure marks a decided step forward, involv- 
ing a material saving of money, and tending toward sound education of 
the medical profession and the public as to the real mechanism of 
disease transmission. 

In the matter of dealing with carriers Dr. Lewis's practice differs from 
the usual health department procedure in the direction of greater strin- 
gency and the results he has obtained seem to justify his position. In 
certain other respects, however, we feel that his departure from currently 
accepted standards is less fortunate. He isolates diphtheria for example 
for a minimum period of ten days and then releases those patients who 
show no clinical signs of disease of the nasopharynx, instead of requiring 
two successive negative bacteriological cultures to be taken from nose and 
throat to show the absence of the infective organism. So with scarlet 
fever he releases patients after three weeks (instead of the usual 30 days) 
unless there are clinical signs of persisting disease. Even more objection- 
able seems to us the practice of isolating exposed nonimmunes, only if 
disease of the nasopharynx is apparent. The universal procedure else- 
where is to isolate all diphtheria contacts until negative cultures have been 
obtained from nose and throat, and all scarlet fever contacts until the 
usual incubation period of the disease has passed. It may be that Dr. 
Lewis is able to separate infected persons from others by inspection of 



jo Health Survey of New Haven 

the nasopharynx. He believes that no untoward results have followed 
the new policy. In view, however, of the grave doubts felt by competent 
diagnosticians as to the safety of such a procedure we are of the opinion 
that the public should be given the benefit of the doubt and the usually 
accepted rules followed as a minimum. 

Recommendation XXVIII. That the promising policies of the De- 
partment of Health in the treatment of carriers be continued, but that 
they be supplemented by such measures of control of frank cases and 
contacts as are generally considered wise and necessary by recognised 
sanitary authorities. 

There is one other point in regard to communicable diseases to which 
we feel regretfully compelled to refer. The courage to seek new truth 
and devise new methods of work is the very life of science, and the 
originality of Dr. Lewis is an asset of which the New Haven Department 
of Health may well feel proud. The proper place to present new ideas, 
however, is before a jury capable of estimating their value, in scientific 
meetings and in scientific periodicals. Not all new ideas are true ones and 
original conceptions must be tried out and gradually established by other 
workers before they can be accepted. The educational literature pub- 
lished by a health department should not include controversial matter. 
There are plenty of established truths to be taught, and to put forth purely 
personal views, at variance with those of the vast body of scientific men, 
in popular bulletins, with official sanction, can only lead to confusion and 
a lack of confidence fatal to the influence of the body promulgating them. 
Both the annual and the monthly bulletins of the New Haven department 
have suffered from a failure to recognize this sound rule of conduct. 

The monthly bulletin for March, 1916, for example, contained an article 
accusing physicians of filling out "inaccurate and misleading" death cer- 
tificates based on "guess work." In the annual reports of the department 
cases reported by physicians as due to diphtheria, scarlet fever, etc., are 
subdivided according to Dr. Lewis's personal views into half a dozen 
different maladies on the assumption that the physician's diagnosis was 
erroneous. Such criticisms should be offered before the County Medical 
Society, not in a popular bulletin. The issue for July contains the state- 
ment that "in the use of a 1 per cent solution of camphor and eucalyptol 
in mineral oil we have a sure cure of diphtheria and scarlet fever 
carriers" ; and it is added "Thus, the bag of camphor worn by our an- 
cestors was not irrational." It is safe to say that the general consensus 
of the best medical opinion would condemn these statements as unjustified 
by any evidence yet presented. In the bulletin for August and October 
are discussions of the epidemiology of infant paralysis in which it is 
quite clearly stated that there are two types of this disease, one "of a 



Health Survey of New Haven 71 

sporadic type, the paralysis only giving the diagnosis, a type apparently 
not contagious and not fatal; secondly, a type called highly contagious 
and frequently fatal." This is exceedingly important if true; but no 
such distinction is recognized by any of the leading authorities who have 
devoted years to the study of this disease. 

It is obvious that the dissemination of views of this sort (whether 
inherently justified or not) in popular bulletins can only tend to alienate 
from the Health Department the physicians whose support is so essential 
to its success, and can only produce in the mind of the public confusion 
and lack of confidence in either health authorities or the medical 
profession. 

Recommendation XXIX. That information disseminated to the 
general public through the medium of the annual report, monthly bulletin 
and other publications of the Department of Health be confined to those 
scientific facts which are generally accepted by competent leaders in the 
fields of medicine and public health, novel and controversial opinions 
being presented to the proper audience through the medium of the 
scientific press. 

No specific criticisms should obscure the fact that the policies of the 
Health Department in regard to communicable diseases are in general 
aggressive and forward-looking. 

Markedly satisfactory results have already been attained in regard to 
typhoid fever, the death rate for this disease having dropped from 24.4 
per 100,000 for the five years 1907-11 to 15. 1 for the five years 1912-16, 
and to 8.0 per 100,000 for the last of these years, 1916. The other com- 
municable diseases except measles show a gradual improvement as indi- 
cated below. Nineteen sixteen was a low year for diphtheria and measles, 
a fairly high year for scarlet fever and whooping cough. 

DEATH RATES PER 100,000 FOR COMMON COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 

Whooping Typhoid 
Diphtheria Scarlet Fever Measles Cough Fever 

1907-11 18.4 7.5 7.2 12.6 24.4 

1912-16 . 17.0 4.6 9.4 7.8 15.1 



It is impossible to attain the most satisfactory results without materially 
strengthening the staff assigned to this very important phase of health 
department activity. A portion of the time of one physician with the 
assistance of one inspector is inadequate for the proper control of com- 
municable disease in a city the size of New Haven. Dr. Wright in his 
letter of April 18 urged the need of "nurses for the bureau of com- 



j2 Health Survey of New Haven 

municable diseases for follow-up work" and of a "city diagnostician at 
least for cases that are cared for at the expense of the municipality." 
Dr. Lewis believes that he should be given two nurses, particularly for 
the work of locating nasal carriers, and a clerk to assist in the statistical 
work of the office. 

More help is certainly needed. We are inclined to believe that the first 
step to be taken in this direction is the freeing of Dr. Lewis from the 
responsibility of the laboratory, which is really a separate problem de- 
manding the entire attention of a specialist. The control of communi- 
cable disease, particularly by attention to the carrier problem, is the spe- 
cial work in which Dr. Lewis has demonstrated particular ability. If 
relieved of the laboratory work we believe that concentration upon this 
task would be even more fruitful of results ; and under such conditions 
one nurse and a clerical assistant should prove adequate for immediate 
needs. We therefore suggest : 

Recommendation XXX. That Dr. Lewis be relieved of responsibility 
for the laboratory of the Health Department and permitted to devote him- 
self to the problems of communicable disease control; and that he be 
provided with a public health nurse at $1000 and a clerk at $600 for the 
adequate prosecution of this work. 

The department furnishes diphtheria antitoxin and smallpox vaccine 
free to all who cannot afford to pay for them. It also provides physi- 
cians on request with typhoid vaccine or anti-rabic virus. The continued 
high death rate from diphtheria, here as everywhere, for New Haven 
is not peculiar in this respect, is a reproach to modern public health 
science; and typhoid and smallpox vaccines should be used much more 
widely than at present. We would therefore urge as 

Recommendation XXXI. That the Department of Health undertake a 
vigorous educational campaign among physicians and the general public 
in the interest of a more general and more prompt use of diphtheria anti- 
toxin and a wider protection of the public against typhoid and smallpox 
by the use of vaccines. 

The Health Department Laboratory 

A well-organized laboratory is one of the most essential elements in a 
modern public health campaign ; and this is one aspect of health work in 
New Haven which seems to us to call for radical improvements. 

All the diagnostic and laboratory work of the department is done by 
Dr. Lewis, in such time as he can spare from his epidemiological duties, 
with the aid of one technician. The chemical and microscopical exami- 
nation of milk, to which reference has been made above, and the diag- 



Health Survey of New Haven 73 

nostic tests for diphtheria, typhoid fever and tuberculosis, constitute the 
great proportion of the work. In 1915 there were made 5033 milk 
analyses, 4117 examinations for diphtheria, 540 for typhoid fever, and 
626 for tuberculosis, with 259 examinations of water and 495 miscel- 
laneous tests. 

For the diagnosis of diphtheria, only a swab is distributed without the 
usual accompanying serum tube. Swabs which come in during the day- 
time are at once inoculated upon serum, but no direct examination is made 
of the swab. Swabs which come in after 7 p.m. are planted upon serum 
by the police officer who happens to be in charge at the police station. 
The procedure in force in the best laboratories is to supply the physician 
with both swab and serum. He inoculates the serum himself, and if it 
arrives at the laboratory during the night, provision is made for dropping 
it through a slot directly into the incubator so that it is ready for exami- 
nation in the morning. 

Blood for the Widal test in typhoid fever is collected and sent in to 
the laboratory dried on a paper slip instead of on metal or glass. We are 
of the opinion that the difficulty in dissolving out all the material absorbed 
by the meshes of the paper constitutes a possible source of error in this 
procedure. 

A few samples are examined in the laboratory in cases of malaria, 
meningitis and other diseases. No feces examinations are made to detect 
typhoid carriers. No Wassermann tests are made, no examinations are 
made for the bacillus of whooping cough, and no work is done on the 
identification of types of pneumococci, a procedure which is coming to be 
of great importance in connection with the new serum treatment of 
pneumonia. 

In general, we are of the opinion that the work of the laboratory 
should be materially extended in scope and standardized and improved 
in method. To this end it should be recognized as constituting an impor- 
tant branch of department work distinct from epidemiology, and it should 
receive much more generous support than it does at present. We would 
strongly urge as 

Recommendation XXXII. That the laboratory work of the Department 
of Health be separated from the medical work of communicable disease 
control and placed under the direction of a bacteriologist at $2000 with 
an assistant chemist at $1200 and the present technician to assist him; 
that the work of the laboratory be reorganised along the generally ac- 
cepted lines of standard procedure and expanded as rapidly as possible to 
include quantitative bacteriological examination of milk, Wassermann 
tests, examination for typhoid carriers, and identification of pneumococcal 
types for assistance in the administration of sera. 



74 Health Survey of New Haven 

Vital Statistics 

The reports of births, deaths and marriages in New Haven are made 
to a special officer, the Registrar of Vital Statistics, entirely independent 
of the Department of Health. This is an unfortunate arrangement be- 
cause the collection of mortality statistics in particular requires consider- 
able expert knowledge. Death returns as they are filed are frequently 
incomplete and unsatisfactory as regards the causes of death, and in 
order that they may be adequate each return should be checked up and 
if the cause of death is not returned under one of the headings accepted 
by vital statisticians the matter should be cleared up by correspondence 
with the physician in question. 

The present plan is also a needlessly costly one. The Registrar of 
Vital Statistics receives a salary of $2000, and employs two clerks, the 
total cost of the office being $4700 a year aside from $2150 paid out in 
fees, etc. This staff simply records the returns received and files the 
necessary duplicates at Hartford, but does nothing whatever in the way 
of tabulating and analyzing data. For such purely routine work the 
cost is exorbitant. An expert statistician at $2000, with one clerk at 
$1000 and with the clerical assistance now devoted to the tabulation of 
data by the Department of Health, should be able to accomplish all and 
more than is done at present. In the interest of both efficiency and 
economy we urge as 

Recommendation XXXIII. That the office of Registrar of Vital Sta- 
tistics be abolished and that a statistician at $2000 and a clerk at $1000 
be added to the staff of the Department of Health. 

The analysis of vital statistics prepared by the Health Department is 
presented in the form of seven tables in its annual report. These tables 
show deaths by months and wards, deaths in public institutions by months, 
deaths by principal causes and months, and deaths by principal causes and 
age and sex. Under each of the last two headings (causes and months, 
and causes and age and sex) there are two tables, one giving certain 
principal causes of death individually, and the second, larger groups of 
causes (epidemic, general, nervous, and the like). The latter groups of 
causes are too large and indefinite to be of value and these tables might 
be omitted with advantage. Even the causes of death given in the more 
extended tables are in many instances groupings of two or more items 
which should be distinguished according to the accepted standard classi- 
fication. There are no data given for five of the most important corre- 
lations, as follows: sex and age, ward and sex, ward and age, ward 
and nativity, ward and cause. There are no death rates by principal 





FIG. XVII 

A FEW PRODUCTS OF THE INFANT WELFARE STATION 
Courtesy of the Visiting Nurse Association 



Health Survey of New Haven 75 

diseases, no infant mortality rates, and no birth rates. All these data 
are generally recognized as essential elements in a statistical report. 

The Health Department cannot be blamed for these rather serious 
deficiencies since it has no special appropriation for statistical work and 
no trained statistician on its staff. On the other hand the shortcomings 
indicated should certainly be remedied, since under present conditions 
the valuable statistical data which the registration returns of the city 
might furnish are being in large measure wasted, while the Health De- 
partment is without many of the essential facts which should guide an 
intelligent public health campaign. 

If our last recommendation should be carried out, the statistician thus 
provided should be able to do the tabulating required. If not, a special 
statistician should be added to the staff of the department to analyze 
the data received from the Registrar of Vital Statistics. In any case we 
suggest as 

Recommendation XXXIV. That the vital statistics published in the 
annual report of the Department of Health be extended and modified so 
as to present the fundamental data generally recognised as essential by 
vital statisticians. 

Prevention of Infant Mortality 

The control of infant mortality by an organized campaign for the edu- 
cation of mothers is the most important and most fruitful of all the 
possible activities of the Department of Health. Two recent attempts 
have been made (by Dr. C. V. Chapin, Health Officer of Providence, 
R. I., and by Mr. Franz Schneider, Jr., Sanitarian, of the Russell Sage 
Foundation) to estimate the relative value in terms of life saving of the 
various divisions of public health activity. Both these authorities assigned 
to infant welfare 20 per cent of the weight attached to the entire health 
program as a whole. Yet this field, representing one-fifth of all the 
possibilities of health department effort, has as yet received but slight 
official recognition in New Haven. 

Fortunately the public spirit of the community has stepped into the 
breach and through two private organizations, the Infant Welfare Asso- 
ciation and the Visiting Nurse Association, has to a considerable extent 
filled this serious gap in our defenses against preventable disease. The 
initiative in raising funds for this work, and its general direction, is due 
to the Infant Welfare Association; its actual conduct is in the hands of 
the Visiting Nurse Association, which organization also supplies a sub- 
stantial proportion of the necessary financial support. 

The infant welfare station is the central feature of the campaign 
against infant mortality; and five such stations are now maintained 



j6 Health Survey of New Haven 

throughout the year at the following points : the New Haven Dispensary, 
Lowell House, Neighborhood House, Dixwell Avenue Congregational 
Church, and in Fair Haven. Rent and gas are supplied free at all sta- 
tions and the services of the medical staff are given without charge. 
Weekly conferences with mothers are held at each station throughout 
the year, and between May 15 and October 1 high-grade milk is distrib- 
uted. This milk is furnished at ten cents a quart by the Fairlea and Hay- 
land farms and is sold approximately at cost. Those who cannot afford to 
pay for milk are supplied by the generosity of Mr. Lee of the Fairlea and 
Mr. Stoddard of the Hayland farms, each of whom donates 1000 quarts 
of milk for this purpose. Emphasis is, however, properly laid at the 
stations upon breast feeding rather than upon the supply of a substitute 
in the form of clean milk, for the supreme task of the milk station is an 
educational one and its aim is the training of the individual mother in all 
the technique of infant care. 

One of the most essential parts of the activity of the welfare station is 
the educational follow-up work. During the summer months four nurses 
and three assistants are employed, at an expense to the Infant Welfare 
Association of approximately $2500. During the winter three nurses and 
two assistants are engaged in this work at the expense of the Visiting 
Nurse Association, amounting to a contribution to the cause of about 
$2000. 

The average attendance at the stations during the summer of 1916 
was 460, the maximum 600. In winter the numbers vary between 350 
and 450. The conduct of the work seems in all respects admirable and 
the results have been most gratifying. In 1915, 958 babies were enrolled 
of whom only 28, or 2.9 per cent, died; in 1916, 1021 were enrolled, of 
whom 33, or 3.2 per cent, died. 

The part taken by the Health Department in this work has been the 
assignment of school nurses during a part of the summer to visit the 
tenements, and give instruction in infant care and home sanitation. Cir- 
culars have been distributed by these nurses, including Advice to House- 
keepers, Directions for the Care of Milk and directions for modifying 
milk for infant feeding. This work has produced gratifying results in 
the improvement of living conditions in the homes of the poor. For 
the present year Dr. Wright has obtained an increased appropriation 
which will make it possible to keep all the school nurses on the pay roll 
for eleven months and to develop this summer work much more exten- 
sively. This is a highly commendable step. In order that a maximum 
of efficiency may be attained it is essential that the activities of these 
Health Department nurses should be closely correlated with those of the 
Visiting Nurses. We therefore suggest as 



Health Survey of New Haven 77 

Recommendation XXXV. That a definite plan for cooperation in the 
summer campaign against infant mortality be worked out by conference 
between the Department of Health and the Infant Welfare Association. 

The infant mortality rate of New Haven, as will be pointed out in a 
later section, is a very satisfactory one in comparison with that of other 
cities, a condition which reflects great credit on the city and its various 
health agencies. Dr. Lewis believes that improvements in the milk 
supply have had much to do with the reduction in infant diarrhea since 
1909 ; and the figures seem to bear out this contention although the milk 
supply as we have seen is still very far from an ideal one. The splendid 
work of the Infant Welfare Association and the Visiting Nurse Associa- 
tion is no doubt a large element in the drop since 1912. The strong ten- 
dency of Italian mothers to nurse their babies, and the generally high 
level of intelligence and of prosperity in the community are all vital 
factors to be taken into account. 

The fact that only 9 babies out of 100 die before reaching their first 
year of life is gratifying by comparison with the record of many other 
cities, but offers no excuse for standing still in the good work. New 
Haven's natural advantages and the good start that has been made should 
inspire rather than discourage further advance; for there is yet much 
that remains to do. 

In the first place there is need for a sixth Infant Welfare Station in 
the vicinity of State Street. Generally accepted standards call for one 
station to every 20,000 population, making seven or eight stations for a 
city the size of New Haven, but for the present at least one more sta- 
tion, in this district, would seem to us adequate. 

In the second place it is most desirable that provision should be made 
for supervision of midwives. More than half the deliveries in New 
Haven are made by midwives, and the visiting nurses tell us that almost 
all the cases of sore eyes seen by them are among this group. The mid- 
wives in Connecticut must pass a state examination, but in addition they 
should be locally registered and supervised ; even without legal authority 
(which the city could probably not assume), the moral influence of super- 
vision would be considerable, and individuals who might prove definitely 
recalcitrant could be reported to the state board of examiners for the 
withdrawal of their license. 

Thirdly, prenatal work is very sorely needed. Such work in Boston 
has reduced the infant death rate to less than one-half of the rate among 
babies not receiving prenatal care. Prenatal work is now -conducted in 
conection with the dispensary station but nowhere else. Provision for the 
education of prospective mothers at the other four stations would un- 
doubtedly be the means of saving many lives. 



f8 Health Survey of New Haven 

Finally, the establishment of Little Mothers' League classes for the 
instruction of the girls who must generally care for their baby brothers 
and sisters has in other cities proved a most valuable element in the 
infant welfare movement. Summer talks to school children (35 of them 
during 1916) have been given for the past three seasons by the Visiting 
Nurse Association at the expense of the Civic Federation. School Health 
Leagues were organized by the Department of Health in 1915-16. These 
are good beginnings, but the work should be developed and organized to 
extend throughout the school year. 

Another point which is much in need of attention here and elsewhere 
is the health of the child between infancy and entrance into school (ages 
two to six) . After the child leaves the welfare station and before it comes 
under the observation of the school medical inspector there is a serious 
gap, and it is most desirable that some machinery should be provided 
for supervising the child during this period of its life. 

To provide thoroughly adequate machinery for the protection of the 
infants of New Haven we are of the opinion that at least three full time 
nurses are required in addition to the service now contributed by the 
Infant Welfare Association and the Visiting Nurse Association ; and this 
additional provision should clearly be made by the city itself, which has 
so far taken so little part in this vital work. The Health Department has 
not been blind to this need. In his report for 1915, Dr. Wright pointed 
out that "three welfare nurses would be profitably employed at all sea- 
sons and that more direct results can be obtained than from any other 
measures of equal cost." 

The conduct of infant mortality work logically belongs in its entirety 
to the Department of Health, and in the future should ultimately be con- 
ducted under official auspices. In most cities, however, there is a more 
or less close cooperation with private agencies which share a part of the 
burden. In New Haven two-thirds of all the work that seems necessary 
is already being carried by the Infant Welfare Association and the Visit- 
ing Nurse Association ; and it is being carried in a wholly ideal way. In 
view of these facts we are inclined to believe that the most satisfactory 
results would be obtained for the present by placing the funds necessary 
for expanding the work in the hands of the organizations which have 
begun it so successfully. We therefore urge as 

Recommendation XXXVI. That the city appropriate the sum of $3000 
annually to be expended by the Infant Welfare Association and the Visit- 
ing Nurse Association for the establishment of an additional station and 
for further Infant Welfare work, particularly along the lines of prenatal 
care and the organisation of Little Mothers' Leagues. 

The supervision of mid wives on the other hand is obviously a function 



Health Survey of New Haven 7P 

which should be directly exercised by the Department of Health. We sug- 
gest as 

Recommendation XXXVII. That an obstetrical nurse at a salary of 
$1200 be added to the staff of the Department of Health to supervise the 
work of registered midwives. 

Medical School Inspection 

Medical school inspection in New Haven was commenced February 1, 
1913, with the appointment of two physicians. A third was added Jan- 
uary 1, 1916. There are seven school nurses. This force is appointed 
and controlled by the Board of Health. 

The grammar schools, 62 in number, containing 21,708 children, are 
divided about equally among the three doctors and seven nurses, the 
latter also doing some work in the parochial schools. There is no medical 
supervision of the high schools with 3363 pupils, the Boardman Appren- 
tice Shops with approximately 200 pupils, the Kindergartens with 2525 
pupils, and the parochial schools with 3500 a total of approximately 9600. 

Physical examination is commenced with the first grade (five to six 
years) in each school, each succeeding grade being examined in turn. As a 
rule the first five grades are completed and sometimes the sixth is started 
within a year. 

The Medical Inspectors are on duty during school hours. They exam- 
ine superficially the eyes, ears, nose, throat, teeth, and cervical lymph 
nodes. Stripping of the children is not permitted, so that proper examina- 
tion of the heart and lungs and examination for orthopedic deformities 
are not possible. 

Where certain defects are discovered, a form is filled out and signed, 
calling attention to the fact, with the advice to the parents that the child 
should receive the attention of its family physician. Such advice may or 
may not be followed. A new system has been recently introduced where- 
by it is hoped to determine what percentage of such recommendations is 
followed out. 

In addition to the routine examinations, the Medical Inspectors are 
on call for emergency cases, such as accidents and suspicious contagious 
diseases. 

During the spring and fall they vaccinate against smallpox those chil- 
dren who have not already been recently vaccinated, unless a physician's 
certificate is brought exempting them on physical grounds. 

In 1915 the two school physicians made 9784 inspections and found 
586 cases of contagious and parasitic disease and 2200 physical defects. 
In 1916 the three school physicians made 11,350 inspections and found 
782 cases of contagious and parasitic disease and 3125 physical defects. 



So Health Survey of New Haven 

The nurses are on duty from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. During school hours 
they inspect such children as are referred to them by the teachers, for 
pediculosis, ringworm, and impetigo. They also treat these conditions, 
when found, under restrictions formulated by the Board of Health. 
After school hours they accompany certain children to the hospital or 
dispensary, and do a certain amount of home visiting. 

With a little training, the teachers could with very little expenditure 
of time do much of the inspection now done by the nurses, and the 
nurses could do most of that now done by the physicians and in addi- 
tion the essential follow-up work outside of school. 

The lack of adequate and effective follow-up work seems to us one 
of the most serious defects in the present system. A special study was 
made by Mrs. B. H. Bartlett, R.N., a graduate student in the Depart- 
ment of Nursing and Health of Teachers College, of the efficiency of 
the work of the New Haven school nurses in comparison with the work 
accomplished in New York City, Newark, N. J., and Montclair, N. J. 
Mrs. Bartlett points out that 

"1. There is no one at the head of the staff who understands the 
various phases of school nursing or who can comprehensively direct their 
work. 

"2. Under the present system there is no way of judging what kind of 
work is being done or how efficient each nurse is, as each one works 
independently. 

"3. There are no requirements demanded of the women employed on 
the staff as to whether they are graduates of a good training school or 
registered nurses in the state. 

"4. The salary of $65 is not sufficient to attract the best type of nurses 
into the work unless they live at home and are not self-supporting. As 
there is no chance of promotion, and no efficiency marks, there is nat- 
urally little incentive to do the highest kind of work.* 

"5. There are no routine directions as to technique in individual or 
class instructions at school as each nurse follows her own plan. This 
brings confusion to both teachers and pupils when a new nurse enters 
a school. 

"6. At present a great deal of time must be wasted at the school 
through mismanagement, as a nurse can easily inspect two schools a day 
instead of one. Arrangements should be made with the principal and 
teachers of each class when the nurse should be in her office. Thus time 
would be spared in waiting for the various classes to assemble in the 
nurse's office. 



*The salaries of the nurses have been increased for the present year to $75 a 
month for eleven months of service. 



Health Survey of New Haven 81 

"7. The number of home visits per nurse is far below the average in 
other cities. This important part of the work has been overlooked, and 
little improvement can be made until a better system of follow-up work 
can be done to join the home and the school. 

"8. Efficient work cannot long be expected from untrained or un- 
directed workers, nor will a small salary hold the best nurse who under- 
stands she is not paid enough for full time work which requires her time 
and skill. For permanent betterment of the work there should be a 
reorganization of the staff, skilled workers, careful administration, ade- 
quate remuneration, complete records, better examining rooms, more 
clinics, and a careful system of following up all physical defects of the 
school children." 

An analysis of the recorded work of the nurses makes it clear that 
Mrs. Bartlett's strictures are in the main justified. In 1915 the nurses 
made 2796 visits to schools and 2329 visits to homes. In 1916 the corre- 
sponding numbers were 2624 and 2540. This means that each nurse made 
between one and two school visits and between one and two home visits 
a day. In New York City each nurse averages three schools a day and 
five home calls. 

We have been favorably impressed with the ability and the enthusiasm 
of certain of the nurses engaged in this work. It seems obvious, how- 
ever, that closer administrative supervision of the work of the staff 
as a whole would be desirable. 

Furthermore, we believe as suggested above that a fundamental read- 
justment of the work of physicians, nurses and teachers would prove of 
advantage. Such a readjustment would permit the services of the three 
Medical Inspectors to be utilized for work in School Medical Clinics, the 
establishment of which would be a distinct advance. The benefits of such 
clinics may be briefly stated as follows : 

1. They form a necessary complement to the preliminary work of 
school medical inspection which experience has shown can be satis- 
factorily performed by teachers and nurses. 

2. They permit the trained physician to be utilized for a more thor- 
ough examination of serious or puzzling cases than is possible in the 
ordinary routine of medical inspection. 

3. Being an integral part of the school machinery, they work in the 
closest relation with teachers, attendance officers, and nurses, at a mini- 
mum of time and maximum of convenience for children and doctors. 

4. They are available not only for the skilled diagnosis of such cases 
as the inspection of teachers and nurses may develop, but permit the 
necessary continuous observation and adequate treatment of such chronic 
conditions as discharging ears, favus, ringworm, scabies, etc., at a great 



82 Health Survey of New Haven 

saving of the health of the school children and their school hours. The 
average parent of public school children cannot afford the expert ser- 
vices of aurist, oculist, etc., such as would be provided by a school clinic. 
Discharging ears, for instance, need daily attention, such as syringing, etc. 
Experience has shown that parents rarely carry out, even if fitted to do 
so, the advice of their family physicians ; a large part of a nurse's time 
is occupied in the attempt to see, by visits to the home, if treatments are 
carried out. This is a long and tedious task and the work is rarely effect- 
ive. It is estimated that nine- tenths of the cases of discharging ears 
among school children have been neglected in the past, with a large 
number of cases resulting in deafness. Likewise, the removal of enlarged 
tonsils and adenoids cannot be best handled by the average family physi- 
cian. The modern treatment for ringworm is by the use of the X-ray. 
How many physicians are in a position to offer such treatment? Instances 
might be multiplied. With the organization of the school clinic, most of 
such difficulties disappear. It is designed to care for the conditions most 
commonly met with in the school, at a minimum of time, with a maximum 
of efficiency, and at great saving in expense. 

5. Such clinics permit a rational control of open-air classes, special 
classes for the deaf and dumb, the subnormal and backward, and the grada- 
tion of all children on a physiological basis as contrasted with the present 
irrational chronological one. 

6. They serve as a medium of cooperation between the school and 
other agencies, such as the Bureau of Communicable Disease for epi- 
demiological studies and the Department of Physical Education for the 
correction of various physical defects, many of which are the result of 
school attendance, and for which the school authorities might properly 
be held responsible. 

7. They permit the recording and filing of the results of the exami- 
nations made and offer an opportunity for the necessary study of such 
results. 

Probably the greatest need in connection with the present system is 
the need of a Supervisor, a physician specially trained in educational 
hygiene and having experience in this field. Efficient leadership is essen- 
tial to scientific control of all successful organizations and a carefully 
selected man would supply the necessary inspiration and cohesive power 
which are fundamental to success. Besides providing leadership, such a 
man could take active part in the Medical Clinic and supply much needed 
educational training in hygiene for children, parents, teachers, and jani- 
tors. He would correlate all those activities relative to the school child's 
health and normal development, medical inspection, and physical exami- 



Health Survey of New Haven 83 

nation, school medical clinic, physical education, school sanitation, etc. 
He should be provided with two special clinic nurses and a clerk for 
record keeping in addition to medical inspectors as at present provided. 

The other vital need of the department in this connection is for a well- 
trained and experienced Supervising Nurse who could supply leader- 
ship and coordination to the nursing staff which we are convinced is 
not at present functioning with a maximum of efficiency. She might 
also very properly be entrusted with the supervision of the conduct by the 
Visiting Nurse Association of the infant welfare and tuberculosis work, 
which we suggest should be financed by grants from the City Treasury. 

The provision of dental clinics and of special education in mouth 
hygiene is coming to be recognized as one of the most important health 
problems. The New Haven Department of Health has made a good 
beginning along this line by the appointment of one dentist and one 
assistant, and by the conduct of a peripatetic clinic which is moved from 
school to school giving treatment to the teeth of the six-year-old chil- 
dren. Bridgeport, which has been a pioneer in this field, now has a staff 
of two dentists and twenty-two dental hygienists, stress being laid almost 
wholly on dental prophylaxis rather than on the treatment of cavities 
after they have already developed. We believe this service should be 
extended in New Haven as rapidly as funds can be obtained. 

With a view to the most complete and satisfactory development of the 
essential work of preserving the health of the future citizens of New 
Haven, we urge as 

Recommendation XXXV III. That the work of medical school inspec- 
tion be reorganised and expanded along the lines laid down in this report, 
to include the organization of medical clinics, with the provision of the 
following new appointees in addition to the present staff: a Medical Su- 
pervisor at $2500; a Supervising Nurse at $2000; two clinic nurses at 
$850 each; a clerk at $750; an additional dentist at $1000; and an addi- 
tional dentist's assistant at $400. 



Sanitation of School Buildings 

Although not properly a problem of health organization, a word may 
perhaps be said at this point, in connection with the general subject of 
school hygiene, in regard to the sanitary conditions of the public school 
buildings, a subject which has been studied in some detail by one of us 
(J. C. G.). 

An inspector maintained by the Board of Education, a trained engineer, 
is doing excellent work in the supervision of sanitary conditions ; and the 



4 Health Survey of New Haven 

attitude of the Board in all matters relating to the health of the school 
children is deserving of praise. 

The school buildings are of all types, five of wood construction, one 
of brick and wood, the rest of brick. The number of rooms varies from 
two to nineteen in the grammar schools. Schools are also maintained in 
six buildings not owned by the school district. As might be expected, 
the school buildings represent the evolution of the science of school 
sanitation. The newer buildings are thoroughly up to date, the older 
ones leave much to be desired. 

Seventeen of the school buildings are provided with plenum systems 
of ventilation, the rest with gravity systems. The teachers are held 
responsible for air conditions in their rooms. They are required to post 
the temperature on the blackboard every half hour, and are supposed 
to maintain the thermometer at 68 or below. Some of the class- 
rooms are overcrowded, resulting in a disturbance of ventilating condi- 
tions and frequently in an improper position of the pupil with respect 
to light. Many of the rooms are not supplied with adjustable desks, an 
important matter which should receive attention. Many postural 
deformities are the result of poorly fitting desks. 

Drinking fountains are for the most part unsatisfactory in type. Many 
are makeshifts placed in the sinks; none have proper guards to prevent 
direct contact between the mouths of the children and the water outlet. 
They are of the continuous flow type for the most part, and either be- 
cause of a low water pressure or because of a desire to economize in 
water, the streams practically necessitate the direct application of the 
mouth to the spigot. Recent bacteriological studies would seem to indi- 
cate the desirability of replacing the present vertical stream type with 
a fountain in which the discharge comes off at an angle so that the water 
after being in contact with the mouth will fall into the basin and not on the 
top of the spigot. 

Toilets are of various kinds. Those in the new schools are excellent, 
those in the older very bad. In several schools, the old outside toilet re- 
mains, a very objectionable condition. The urinals are usually less satis- 
factory in type than the toilets. No common towels or drinking cups 
have been seen, though in some places paper towels are not always 
provided. 

Several of the newer school buildings are equipped with electric vacuum 
cleaners. The schoolroom floors of those buildings not so equipped 
should receive a dust-laying preparation. The general cleanliness of 
the floors, windows, etc., is excellent. 

While the above-mentioned defects are mentioned, it should be stated 
in fairness that the members of the Board of Education realize the con- 



Health Survey of New Haven 85 

ditions as they exist and are attempting to improve conditions as rapidly 
as the funds available permit. Further appropriations for this purpose 
should be provided. 

It is desirable that all school-teachers and janitors should receive in- 
struction in general school sanitation. Their position is a responsible 
one. For instance, no other class of individuals about the school build- 
ing has more influence over conditions which affect the health of the 
pupils than the janitors. They should be taught not only how to operate 
a fan mechanically, but why fresh air is necessary. They should under- 
stand why dusting and sweeping are undesirable during school hours ; it 
is still practiced in some of the New Haven schools at present. 

Open-air classes are maintained in two schools, the Edwards Street 
School and the Prince Street School. The second of these, a class of 
37 pupils, was inspected by one of us (J. C. G.). Of the 37 children, 5 
were definitely tuberculous, 8 were under suspicion, and the rest were 
suffering from malnutrition from various causes. Complete physical 
examinations are made, hemoglobin estimated, and the weights of these 
children recorded once a month. Physically, a definite improvement has 
been noted in all. Warm clothing and a nourishing hot beverage of cocoa, 
milk, or gruel is supplied by friends of the school. 

In the Green Street and Washington Hooker schools, a room is kept 
with the windows open in which special classes are held. Each school 
building should be provided with such a room, where weak, anemic, or 
otherwise sickly children may receive schooling. Warm covers and a 
hot drink should be provided for these children, as is done for those in 
the fresh-air class. 

Additional special classes should be provided for children below par 
mentally and for those having defects of speech. 

Control of Tuberculosis 

Next to infant mortality tuberculosis presents greater possibilities of 
life saving, of a tangible reduction in the death rate, than any other 
problem within the province of the health department. The estimates by 
Chapin and Schneider of the relative importance of various health pro- 
cedures assign respectively 10 per cent and 12 per cent of the total value 
of all health activities to anti-tuberculosis work. In New Haven, how- 
ever, almost the whole of this important phase of public health work has 
been left to private and unofficial agencies. 

The Board of Health does of course require the reporting of tubercu- 
losis, and as we have seen furnishes the usual laboratory facilities for 
diagnosis. The reporting is still incomplete, but compares very well with 



86 - Health Survey of New Haven 

the results obtained in other cities. On death or removal of a case the 
home is visited by the sanitary inspector assigned to work under Dr. Lewis 
and instructions are given in regard to cleansing, and disinfection is done 
where necessary. No visits are made to cases reported unless death or 
removal occurs. 

As in the case of infant welfare, private agencies have gone far to 
supplement the lack of official initiative in this matter. An effective dis- 
pensary system is the first essential in a campaign against tuberculosis; 
and the New Haven Dispensary has furnished admirable facilities of this 
kind (under the direction of Dr. F. B. Standish). Three afternoon 
clinics (for men, women and children, respectively) are held and one 
evening clinic. The total number of new cases registered at these clinics 
during 1916 was 282 and the number of visits paid to the clinics was 
1484. Dr. Standish believes that the time has come for the extension of 
this work by the establishment of branch dispensaries to reach other 
sections of the city more directly, and suggests the Grand Avenue dis- 
trict as the one most in need of such facilities. We are heartily in accord 
with this suggestion, and believe that with this exception present dis- 
pensary facilities for dealing with tuberculosis are entirely adequate and 
satisfactory. 

The tuberculosis nursing work in connection with the dispensary is 
done by the Visiting Nurse Association, five nurses being assigned to 
this service. This work, like everything else undertaken by the V. N. A., 
appears to be carried out in an admirable manner. The number of 
nurses available is not, however, sufficient to do all that is necessary, par- 
ticularly along the line of searching out incipient cases in the environ- 
ment of those already known to be affected. The secret of success in 
anti-tuberculosis work lies in beginning treatment at the earliest possible 
moment, and as a general rule there will be found in the family of each 
frank case at least one incipient case in just the stage to profit most by 
hygienic care. We believe that one of the most important things to be 
done in connection with the anti-tuberculosis campaign in New Haven is 
the extension of the work of instructive public health nursing in regard 
to this disease, and we feel that at least three more nurses should be 
employed in order to cover the ground properly. 

One of the most valuable agencies in combating tuberculosis is the Day 
Camp in which children from tuberculous families (who in a large 
majority of cases are already affected with the disease in incipient form) 
can be put in condition to resist its ravages by outdoor life and hygienic 
instruction. The New Haven Hospital has for three years financed such 
a Day Camp in West Haven under the management of the Visiting Nurse 
Association. The camp has been kept open only during the summer. 




* 



Health Survey of New Haven 8? 

Attendance has averaged about 85 a day and the results, according to the 
physicians and nurses closely in touch with them, have been most 
gratifying. The cost of maintaining the Day Camp is about $2000 a year, 
and we understand that the hospital authorities are considering its aban- 
donment on the ground of expense. We believe that this would be most 
unfortunate, for the leading experts on tuberculosis are laying increasing 
stress on such work as is done in the Day Camp as perhaps the most 
fruitful of all lines of endeavor in the anti-tuberculosis field. Dr. D. R. 
Lyman writes us in connection with this question : "I sincerely trust the 
Day Camp will be not only continued but enlarged. If, as you suggest, 
we could only through our nurses and dispensaries get hold of the latent 
or pretubercular cases in the families where there has been open chronic 
tuberculosis, and could then through a day camp run all the year round 
build up these little cases and carry them until they are able to go to work, 
we would save the community many times the expense in the long run." 
We feel, however, that work of this kind, which is essentially preventive 
in nature, should logically be supported at public expense and not by the 
New Haven Hospital. 

For hospital treatment of tuberculosis, New Haven has the facilities of 
the four state sanatoria at Hartford, Meriden, Norwich a"nd Shelton, with 
565 beds. We understand that the State Tuberculosis Commission is 
asking for the addition of 60 beds to the institution at Shelton, which, with 
the one at Meriden, is particularly convenient for New Haven. There 
is also available the Gaylord Farm Sanatorium at Wallingford, which has 
100 beds for incipient cases. This institution is maintained by the New 
Haven County Anti-Tuberculosis Association; and the group of public- 
spirited citizens who have financed and managed this institution deserves 
the gratitude of the community for an undertaking which is looked to as 
a model the country over. 

The facilities for the care of the tuberculous have not been quantita- 
tively adequate to meet the need in recent years. Ten or more cases in 
urgent need of sanatorium treatment are frequently on the waiting list 
of the dispensary at a given time; and the Poor Farm at Springside is 
frequently forced to receive tuberculous patients who should be under 
sanatorium care. The new hundred-bed hospital now under construction 
by the New Haven Hospital, designed particularly for the treatment of 
advanced cases, should, however, meet the need for institutional care for 
the immediate future. 

A conscientious tuberculous patient need not be a menace to family and 
friends, but one of the most serious problems in the prevention of tuber- 
culosis is the control of the willfully careless consumptives. There are 
individuals in New Haven who have been turned out of sanatoria be- 



88 Health Survey of New Haven 

cause of willful disobedience to rules, intemperance and the like, and who 
go back and forth from the tenements to the dispensary and the poor- 
house without adequate control, and a constant menace to their fellows. 
In New York State such individuals are committed through summary 
legal process and are kept under institutional supervision and forced to 
obey the necessary rules by the authority of the law. The ordinance re- 
cently adopted for the control of communicable disease provides that "it 
shall be the duty of said Department of Health, through its accredited 
agents, to maintain such adequate quarantine or isolation of those sick 
of, and those proven carriers of, notifiable diseases as shall be sufficient 
for the protection of the public health/' Tuberculosis is one of the notifi- 
able diseases and we see no reason why the recalcitrant tuberculous 
patient should not be treated under this rule precisely as a case of small- 
pox would be. We therefore urge as 

Recommendation XXXIX. That the Department of Health adopt 
vigorous measures for the control of the willfully careless consumptive, by 
forcible control when necessary, along the lines adopted in dealing with 
other forms of communicable disease. 

The continuance and expansion of the work of the Day Camp and the 
extension of instructive public health nursing service seem to us the other 
pressing needs of the situation.; and it is clear, in view of the splendid 
work done by private agencies, that the city should do its share in those 
directions where help is needed. In his letter to us of April 18, 1916, 
Dr. Wright listed among 'the special subjects for our consideration, "the 
establishment of an institution for the care of the tuberculous cases of 
this city with nurses to investigate and care for domiciliary cases," and 
"the establishment of a municipal dispensary." We do not feel that fur- 
ther institutional or dispensary facilities are indicated at present ; but the 
development of public health nursing and the continuance and extension 
of the work of the Day Camp seem to us essential. As in the case of 
infant welfare work, these activities should eventually be undertaken by 
the city, but until the health officer is provided with a proper corps of 
trained lieutenants, we feel that it would be better to leave the tuberculo- 
sis work under its present efficient management. For the present the 
largest returns can be secured from the city's funds by expending them 
through well-organized existing agencies. 

Recommendation XL. That the city appropriate $3000 a year for 
extending the work of the Visiting Nurse Association in the care and 
prevention of tuberculosis and $2000 a year for the maintenance of the 
Day Camp; and that pending such an arrangement every effort be made 
to maintain the Day Camp through the generosity of private individuals. 

In addition to these immediate needs we are of the opinion that the 



Health Survey of New Haven 89 

Department of Health should be in direct contact with the whole anti- 
tuberculosis campaign and should exert a coordinating and directive 
influence over all its phases. In a matter of so much moment there 
should be some one person whose business it is to know all that is going 
on in dispensary work, visiting nursing, and sanatorium care, to see that 
all agencies are effectively working together, and to plan for constructive 
development in the future. We therefore urge as 

Recommendation XLI. That there be added to the staff of the De- 
partment of Health a competent physician trained in anti-tuberculosis 
work (at a salary of $2500) to supervise and coordinate and develop the 
campaign against this disease along the most effective lines. 

A discussion of this general subject would be incomplete without ref- 
erence to the excellent work of the Employees Tuberculosis Relief Asso- 
ciation, which was founded through the initiative of the Chamber of 
Commerce in 1912 and which has set the standard for many similar organ- 
izations elsewhere. The Association is supported by purely voluntary con- 
tributions from employers and employees, and after a firm is once ac- 
cepted, all its employees receive the benefits of the Association whether 
they have personally contributed or not. According to the Journal of 
the Association for August 5, 1916, "the employees of forty-six mercan- 
tile and commercial concerns and twenty theaters and moving picture 
houses are counted in its membership to a total of over forty thousand." 
During 1915 the Association received $11,385.32, of which $9763.32 came 
from contributions of the affiliated firms and employees. It spent 
$9597.78, of which $8719.65 went for sanatorium treatment. The Associa- 
tion had a balance of $6795.71 on hand December 31, 1915, and is at 
present in a strong position financially. We cannot, however, avoid 
pointing out the serious effect which severe industrial depression might 
have upon an organization which has assumed a certain moral responsi- 
bility to provide sickness benefits but is dependent on absolutely voluntary 
contributions which might cease at any time. It is greatly to be hoped 
that some way may be found of placing this most valuable enterprise on 
a firmer financial basis. 

Problems of Venereal Disease 

The restriction of communicable diseases of a venereal nature involves 
far-reaching problems, social and educational, as well as medical. It is 
with the latter that we are concerned in the present discussion. 

The first step in the control of venereal disease is the introduction of 
an effective system of notification. The law of the State of Connecticut 
calls for the reporting of such diseases without the name of the patient ; 
but even this very moderate requirement is a dead letter in New Haven. 



po Health Survey of New Haven 

During the last six months of 1916 there were reported in the state 276 
cases of venereal disease, of which 142 were reported from Hartford, 73 
from Bridgeport, and not one from New Haven. 

In a report to the Hartford Board of Health some years ago Dr. Paul 
Waterman outlined the value of notification of venereal disease as 
follows : 

"The advantages of this procedure are that it would probably be the 
most direct method of indicating to and of impressing upon the public 
mind the serious economic relations of venereal diseases, that it would 
establish a growing mass of statistics concerning venereal disease, from 
which indications for new or modified methods of their municipal control 
might be obtained, and that the board might place in the hands of each 
patient, acting through the physician or institution, a schedule of instruc- 
tions concerning the limitation of the spread of such diseases. The two 
chief benefits to be derived from registration are advantage to the indi- 
vidual through gratuitous or improved treatment, and to the community 
by limitation of the spread of the disease by means of relative or absolute 
quarantine." 

Provision for laboratory diagnosis is essential to success in such a cam- 
paign and the State Board of Health laboratory at Middletown now offers 
facilities for such diagnosis to the physicians of the state who, it is 
gratifying to note, are making rapidly increasing use of this opportunity. 
During the six months, July to December, 1916, with only 276 cases of 
venereal disease of any kind reported, the state laboratory made 1996 
Wassermann tests for syphilis, of which 435 were positive. 

We believe that the Board of Health should take definite steps to under- 
take the education of the local medical profession in regard to the im- 
portance of reporting cases of venereal disease, and securing prompt 
laboratory diagnosis. We also feel that it would be most desirable for 
the board to prepare for distribution to patients, by physicians and in 
other ways, an educational circular such as is in use in Hartford, giving 
information which will inform those affected with these diseases as to 
the possibilities of cure and the precautions which should be taken to 
safeguard others from infection. 

Recommendation XLIL That the Board of Health undertake an 
organized educational campaign among physicians in regard to the prompt 
diagnosis and notification of venereal diseases, and prepare a circular in 
regard to the prevention and cure of these diseases for distribution to 
those whom it might benefit. 

From a medical standpoint the greatest need in combating venereal 
disease is to provide adequate clinical facilities for treatment and to 
secure the attendance of those in need of such medical care. The New 




FIG. XIX 
THE NEW HAVEN DISPENSARY AN IMPORTANT CENTER OF PREVENTIVE WORK 



Health Survey of New Haven 91 

Haven Dispensary operates a venereal day clinic, which is entirely ade- 
quate from a medical standpoint, but which is not provided with the 
social service staff necessary to follow up cases into the home. Such 
follow-up work is often of inestimable value in securing the treatment of 
innocent victims of these diseases. Furthermore, serious difficulties are 
experienced in securing the salvarsan required for the treatment of the 
cases which do come to the dispensary; and finally the establishment of 
an evening clinic is urgently needed to provide for persons who cannot 
attend in the daytime. 

It is the belief of the executive board of the Connecticut Society for 
Social Hygiene that the best step that could be taken for the betterment 
of conditions in this regard would be the organization of a special com- 
mittee of the Civic Federation for the study of the general problem of 
social hygiene. Such a committee would in the future be the local center 
for the valuable educational work of the state society, and it could at 
once take steps to secure funds for the extension of clinical facilities, so 
much needed at the present moment. 

Recommendation XLIII. That the Civic Federation organise a com- 
mittee on Social Hygiene to study the general problems of venereal dis- 
ease in New Haven, to raise funds for the provision of- salvarsan treat- 
ment and for the extension of clinical facilities, particularly on the social 
service side, and to take part in the state-wide educational movement now 
in progress in regard to the broader problems of social hygiene. 

Mental Hygiene 

A survey of the general health situation would not be complete without 
at least brief reference to the problems of mental disease. 

New Haven is fortunate in this respect in being the headquarters of the 
Connecticut Society for Mental Hygiene, the pioneer organization of its 
type in the United States and still one of the strongest and most efficient. 
The society carries on a broadly planned educational campaign in regard 
to the prevention and treatment of mental disease and maintains in New 
Haven a weekly clinic at the New Haven Dispensary. The medical work 
of this clinic is done by physicians who come in alternate weeks from the 
Middletown State Hospital and the Hartford Retreat, respectively. The 
general educational and follow-up work of the clinic is carried on by the 
secretary of the society. During the year ending October 31, 1916, 94 
new cases were treated at the clinic and 52 old cases were kept under 
supervision. The secretary interviewed 162 patients and 214 friends of 
patients at her office and made 389 home visits to patients or visits on 
their behalf. 

The great need at present in the field of mental hygiene is for a psy- 



$2 Health Survey of New Haven 

chopathic ward connected with the New Haven Hospital. Formal com- 
mitment through the Probate Court is now the only means of placing a 
patient under restraint, and on account of the expense of this procedure 
and for other obvious reasons the family is often reluctant to take such a 
step. The result is delay which in many cases greatly lessens the chance 
of recovery and in other cases may make the patient a grave danger to 
himself and others. It is very properly "one of the constant efforts of 
this (the Mental Hygiene) Society to assure patients and their friends 
that mental disorders are like any other physical illness and as susceptible 
of treatment." It is extremely difficult, however, to establish this point 
of view in the community if mental disease is officially treated as in the 
first instance a legal problem, which must be the case so long as no hospital 
facilities are available for the immediate reception and supervision of 
suspicious cases. It is greatly to be hoped that funds may soon be forth- 
coming for the extension of the work of the New Haven Hospital along 
this important line. 

Public Health Education 

The work of the modern health department is becoming year by year 
increasingly an educational one ; for the larger objectives in view cannot 
be attained unless the active cooperation and intelligent interest of the 
individual citizen are secured. 

The instructive work of the public health nurse is perhaps the most 
direct and most fruitful form of health education, but it should be supple- 
mented by a broadly organized campaign of which printed matter, lec- 
tures and exhibits form essential parts. 

The monthly bulletin of the Department of Health has a circulation of 
1600 copies. It contains clear and effective editorials by Dr. Wright, 
admirable health cartoons, and the results of the scores of food stores, 
restaurants and the like. Exception may be taken to the controversial 
treatment of certain moot questions in regard to the communicable 
diseases; but in general the bulletin is a highly creditable and a useful 
production. 

In the line of special literature relating to particular topics the depart- 
ment has good circulars in regard to typhoid fever, tuberculosis and other 
diseases, as well as the leaflets on Advice to Housekeepers, Care of Milk 
in the Home and Infant Feeding, the latter in Italian as well as in English. 

Little use has been made of the newspapers as a vehicle for publicity 
and this seems to us unfortunate. The maintenance by many of the 
leading newspapers of the country of health columns edited by highly 
paid experts shows that health matter has a distinct news value, and we 
believe that by some effort the cooperation of the New Haven papers 



Health Survey of New Haven 93 

could be secured for a campaign along these lines which would yield 
fruitful results. 

A health exhibit organized by the department was held at the Public 
Library in the fall of 1914, as we understand with marked success. A 
course of lectures to parents was arranged to be given in the school 
buildings in 1915 ; and in the fall of 1915 the department offered to pro- 
vide lectures on health topics to clubs and organizations desiring to avail 
themselves of the privilege. 

A good beginning has therefore been made along various lines of public 
health education, but we believe that more vigorous efforts should be 
made in the future. Particularly in regard to the constitutional diseases 
of adult life, which show a high incidence in New Haven and which 
can only be controlled by education in the principles of personal hygiene, 
there is an immense opportunity for profitable work. 

It cannot be expected that educational work of this kind will be vigor- 
ously developed so long as the health officer is compelled to devote his 
personal attention to the supervision of every detail of office work as 
at present. 

Recommendation XLIV. That the public health education work of the 
Department of Health be extended and amplified, especially with refer- 
ence to the control of the constitutional diseases of adult life, and par- 
ticularly by the fullest possible use of the resources of the daily press. 

The Health Department Budget 

The budget of the New Haven Health Department (excluding the sum 
paid for garbage collection) was $32,738.75 in 1915 ; it was $36,711.64 in 
1916 ; and $40,205 has been appropriated for the present year. These 
appropriations amount (using the census estimates of population) to 22, 
26 and 26 cents per capita, respectively. 

Financial Statistics of Cities for 1915 (United States Census Bureau) 
includes in its estimates certain minor items not directly chargeable to 
the health budget and figures New Haven's health expenditure at 30 cents 
per capita. The distribution of expenditures for all the 43 cities in the 
population group, 100,000 to 300,000, is as follows : 

HEALTH EXPENDITURE IN CITIES HAVING POPULATIONS BETWEEN 100,000 AND 
300,000, UNITED STATES CENSUS DATA, 1915 

Cents per capita Under 20 20-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60-70 

Number cities in each class.. 13 10 7 5 35 

New Haven stands near the middle of the list. About half the cities 
do even less than New Haven; while on the other hand Grand Rapids, 
Mich., Memphis, Tenn., Richmond, Va., Syracuse, N. Y., and Worces- 



p^ Health Survey of New Haven 

ter, Mass., spend between 40 and 50 cents per capita for health work; Fall 
River, Mass., Louisville, Ky., and Springfield, Mass., between 50 and 60 
cents ; and Atlanta, Ga., Camden, N. J., Hartford, Conn., New Bedford, 
Mass., and Providence, R. I., between 60 and 70 cents. 

It is generally recognized by public health authorities that between 40 
and 50 cents per capita is essential for the maintenance of a thoroughly 
efficient municipal health department. The Committee on Organization 
and Functions of Municipal Health Departments of the American Public 
Health Association recommends 45 cents as a standard. It is an interest- 
ing confirmation of this estimate that our recommendations as to specific 
needs of the New Haven Department, worked out step by step and with 
no reference to their total, come out at the end of the investigation to 
almost exactly the per capita allowance suggested by this committee. 

The following budget increases for the Health Department have been 
urged in the course of our report : 

SUGGESTED INCREASES IN THE BUDGET OF THE HEALTH DEPARTMENT 

General inspection, supervising inspector (additional salary*) ... $ 1,000 $ 1,000 

Communicable diseases, nurse 1,000 

clerk 600 1,600 

Laboratory, bacteriologist 2,000 

assistant chemist 1,200 3,200 

Vital statistics,! statistician 2,000 

derk 1,000 

fees and expenses 2,150 5,150 

Infant welfare, additional nurses^ . 3,000 

obstetrical nurse 1*200 4,200 

Inspection of school children, medical supervisor 2,500 

supervising nurse 2,000 

clinic nurses 1,700 

clerk 750 

additional dentist 1,000 

additional dentist's assistant 400 8,350 

Tuberculosis, supervising physician 2,500 

additional nursesj 3,000 

support of Day Camp 2,000 7,500 

$31,000 $31,000 

'Position to be filled by promotion ; $1000 represents maximum possible difference 
between salary of present position and that of new one. 

fThe appropriation for Vital Statistics represents not a new cost of $5150 to the 
city but a saving of $1700 since the Vital Statistics office now costs $6850 a year. 
The total cost proposed is included here because vital statistics properly forms a part 
of the health budget. 

$These appropriations to be turned over to the I. W. A. and the V. N. A. to be 
expended by them under the general supervision of the health department. 



Health Survey of New Haven 95 

In addition to these salary increases, an allowance of perhaps $3000 
should be made for medical supplies, stationery and sundries which would 
be needed for the new appointees proposed. The new appropriation called 
for by our plan would not really be $34,000 but about $27,000, since the 
elimination of the office of Registrar of Vital Statistics would save $6850. 
Taking the larger sum, however (since vital statistics work should prop- 
erly be included in the health budget), and adding it to the present 
appropriation of $40,205, gives a total health appropriation of $74,000, 
which for an estimated 1918 population of 154,865 works out at a little 
less than 48 cents per capita. 

We believe that this appropriation is needed in order to give New 
Haven an effective health department, and that with this sum a complete 
and modern system of health protection can be provided. We therefore 
urge as 

Recommendation XLV. That the budget of the New Haven Health 
Department be increased from $40,000 to $74,000, so as to make possible 
the various extensions of its activities specified in earlier recommenda- 
tions. 



Health Survey of New Haven 



D. THE VITAL STATISTICS OF NEW HAVEN 

After considering the general sanitary condition of New Haven and 
reviewing the machinery available for an organized campaign of life 
saving, it remains to discuss very briefly the actual state of the city's 
health as revealed by vital statistics. 

The General Death Rate 

-^ 

The crudest and most general measure of the health of a community 
is its general death rate, or the number of annual deaths per 1000 persons 
in the total population. On the assumption of a uniform arithmetical 
increase of population such death rates have been calculated and plotted 
in Fig. 20 for the past ten years. Corresponding figures for all registra- 
tion cities are plotted on the same chart as a norm. 

The sharp rise in the death rate of New Haven from 15.7 in 1915 to 17.0 
in 1916 is probably largely illusory, the apparent increase being in part 
due to the fact that the abnormal increase in population, which has re- 
sulted from recent industrial developments, is not allowed for in our' 
population estimates. 

GENERAL DEATH RATE (PER 1000) 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 18.8 18.1 16.4 16.9 16.5 16.7 16.5 15.9 16.1 15.7 17.0 

All registration cities 16.9 17.1 15.7 15.4 16.1 15.3 15.0 15.2 14.8 

On the other hand the data for the years 1908 to 1914 make it clear 
that the death rate of New Haven has been consistently high, about one 
point per thousand above the average for all registration cities. The 
factors which contribute to this excess will later be discussed in some 
detail. 

The principal causes which contribute to the death roll in New Haven 
are shown for the last five years (1910-14), for which census figures 
are available, in the table below and in Fig. 21. 

PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF DEATH IN NEW HAVEN, 1910-14 

Percentage of Percentage of 

deaths from all deaths from all 

Disease causes Disease causes 

Pneumonia 12.6 Violence 5.4 

Organic heart disease 10.2 Diarrhea (under two years) 4.4 

Nephritis 8.1 Bronchitis and other respiratory 

Tuberculosis of the lungs 7.3 diseases 2.8 

Cancer 6.1 Acute communicable diseases (D, 

Cerebral hemorrhage 5.8 SF, WC, M) 2.6 

Congenital debility 5.7 Typhoid fever . 1.2 



18 



16 



14 



12- 



2l 



10 



8 ' 



2- 




' New Haven 
---- Registration Cities 



1906 



1908 



1914- 



1910 1912 

FIG. XX 

The General Death Rate of New Haven compared with the average for all Registration Cities 



1916 




Pimwonia Organic Nephritis Tuberculosu Cancer Cerebral Congenital Violence Diarrhea Bronchus Acute Typhoid 

Diseases oftbcLunp Hemorrhage Debility under and Other Communicable Fever 

of the Heart 2 Years Respiratory Diseases 

Diseases 

FIG. XXI 

Principal Causes of Death in New Haven (1910-1914) 
Figures indicate percentage of deaths from all causes 



$8 Health Survey of New Haven 

Infant Mortality 

A much more significant index of the sanitary status of a community 
is its infant mortality rate, the ratio of deaths under one year to one 
thousand births. This rate is very clearly and directly affected by an 
aggressive public health campaign. Data for the group of registration 
cities not being available we have in this case compared the New Haven 
figures with those for New York City, where the campaign against infant 
mortality has been conducted with signal success. 



160 
140- 

_g .20- 

^i 

(Q 

2 100 

s. 

1-1 

i 

JZ 60 
40 




- New Haven 
New York City 



1906 



1908 



1910 



1912 1914 1916 

PIG. XXII 
Infant Mortality Rate in New Haven compared with New York City 



Health Survey of New Haven pp 

INFANT MORTALITY (DEATHS UNDER ONE PER THOUSAND BIRTHS) 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 146 114 112 121 109 112 111 93 98 88 91 

New York 154 144 128 130 126 112 105 102 94 98 93 

It will be noted that there was a very sharp drop in the infant mortality 
rate of New Haven in 1907 coincident with the beginning of the health 
department campaign for the improvement of the milk supply by farm 
inspection. (The 1906 figure was not abnormally high for those days. 
The rate for 1905 had been 135.) Then the figure remained at 109 to 121 
for six years and dropped nearly twenty points in 1913 when the work of 
the infant welfare stations began to be effective. The rate of approxi- 
mately 90 maintained for the past two years is highly creditable and offers 
gratifying evidence of the good results so far achieved. 



Acute Communicable Diseases of Childhood 

For the purposes of such a comparison as this the three common 
communicable diseases of childhood may conveniently be considered 
together. 

The tables and charts indicate that scarlet fever has been consistently 
low and whooping cough consistently high (though decreasing from year 
to year) in New Haven, as compared with the average of all registration 
cities, while measles has fluctuated widely due to annual variations com- 
mon to this disease when a comparatively small population is considered. 

SCARLET FEVER DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 0.8 2 2.6 16- 8 10 6 9 5 3 3 

All registration cities.. 9 13 15 14 14 11 8 11 8 

MEASLES DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 28 5 6 24 5 2 19 1 22 8 4 

All registration cities 14 11 11 11 13 10 9 13 7 

WHOOPING COUGH DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1919 

New Haven 28 9 11 20 10 13 13 8 5 7 10 

All registration cities 15 11 10 9 11 11 8 9 9 



Measles 



New Haven 
---Registration Cities 




10 



1906 



1908 



1914- 



1910 1912 

PIG. XXIII 

De&th Rate from Three Acute Communicable Diseases in New Haven compared with the average 

for all Registration Cities 



1916 



Health Survey of New Haven 



101 



Diphtheria 

Diphtheria is one of the definitely preventable diseases and here too 
the showing made by New Haven is a creditable one. The rate as in- 
dicated in the table and diagram dropped below the average for the 
registration cities in 1909 and has remained there ever since. 

DIPHTHERIA DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 37 28 26 13 13 19 12 16 19 24 15 

All registration cities 29 27 25 24 25 22 20 22 21 



40 ' 



35 



30 ' 



8. 
(A 
-C 

2 



20 



,, 



10 



New rUven 
Registration Cities 




1906 



1908 



1910 



191 Z 



(914 



f 19(6 



FIG. XXIV 
Death Rate from Diphtheria in New Haven compared with the average for all Registration Cities 



102 Health Survey of New Haven 

Typhoid Fever 

The typhoid fever rate of New Haven has been less satisfactory than 
that for any other of the communicable diseases. Even here, however, 
the diagram indicates that New Haven has been just about an average 
American city. The curve shows normal chance fluctuations but its 
average height and general trend are almost identical with that plotted for 
the group of registration cities as a whole. 

TYPHOID FEVER DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 53 29 33 21 18 25 24 13 15 18 8 

All registration cities 34 32 25 21 24 20 16 16 14 

By comparison, however, with the large number of cities (such as 
Boston, Bridgeport, Cambridge, Cincinnati, Jersey City, Lowell, Newark, 
New York, Paterson, Pittsburgh, St. Paul, Scranton, Seattle, Somerville, 
Spokane, Worcester) which now show typhoid death rates below 10 per 
100,000, the New Haven death rates prior to 1916 suggest that an im- 
provement is urgently needed. We have made a somewhat extensive 
study of the statistics of this disease for the period 1911-15 in the hope 
of throwing light upon its causation. No connection could be demon- 
strated with any of the five water supplies of the city, and the seasonal 
prevalence is such as to negative a water-borne origin. The disease shows 
a regular and sharply marked summer increase, with monthly averages of 
ten cases or less per month from December to June, rising to 21 for July, 
40 for August, 30 for September, 19 for October, and 14 for November. 
Water-borne typhoid occurs in winter and spring. A careful study of 
records for these five years shows no evidence of epidemics associated 
with particular milk routes. 

The high typhoid rates have more or less consistently manifested them- 
selves in Wards 5, 11, 6, 7, 3, 9 and 4. With the exception of Ward 11 
these are all wards inhabited by a relatively poor population and, as will 
be shown later, the incidence of this disease corresponds roughly with the 
incidence of tuberculosis and infant diarrhea. It would seem from all 
these facts that the excess of typhoid fever has been due chiefly to 
general insanitary conditions of living, and in particular, probably, to 
privies and carelessly kept semi-public toilets, from which infection may 
so easily be spread by flies. Dr. Lewis actually identified one such privy 
and one such toilet, each used by a typhoid carrier, as centers of neigh- 
borhood outbreaks of typhoid in 1915, and the elimination of these two 
foci is believed by him to be largely responsible for the drop in the death 
rate to the low figure of 8 per 100,000 in 1916. 



Health Survey of New Haven 



103 



New Haven 

Registration Cities 




1906 



1908 



1910 



1912 



1914 



1916 



FIG. XXV 
Death Rate from Typhoid in New Haven compared with the average for all Registration Cities 



We have ourselves been impressed with one other possible factor, the 
proximity of the highly polluted harbor waters. The four wards showing 
the highest typhoid death rates, Wards 5, 11, 6 and 7, are all in the imme- 
diate vicinity of the Quinnipiac River and one of them (Ward 11) has a 
much higher rate than would be expected from its general social status 
(see Fig. 30). We are inclined to believe that bathing in the polluted 
harbor waters may be an appreciable factor in New Haven typhoid. 



104 



Health Survey of New Haven 



Tuberculosis 

The statistics for tuberculosis are on their face among the most gratify- 
ing of all the data analyzed in connection with this study. 

TUBERCULOSIS ( LUNGS) DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 160 186 145 176 147 124 102 113 111 82 85 

All registration cities 178 175 165 158 161 154 146 142 143 



180 



160- 



140 



120 



o 

fe .00 



id 

Q 



60 



40 



20 




1906 



New Haven 

r- -Registration Cities 



1908 



1914- 



1916 



1910 I9IZ 

FIG. XXVI 
Death Rate from Tuberculosis in New Haven compared with the average for all Registration Cities 



Health Survey of New Haven 105 

Since 1909 the death rate from tuberculosis of the lungs has dropped 
almost steadily from year to year and has recently been 30 points below the 
average value for the group of registration cities. In view of the fact 
that the death rate from pneumonia is as much above, as that from 
tuberculosis is below, the normal we have considered the possibility of 
fallacies due to erroneous diagnosis. A study of the age distribution of 
pneumonia, which will be reviewed later on in this report, makes it fairly 
clear, however, that no considerable transfer has taken place from tuber- 
culosis to pneumonia. The latter disease reaches a maximum in infancy 
and old age, while tuberculosis deaths occur in middle life, and if there 
were any serious error of this kind the New Haven pneumonia rate would 
be unduly swollen between the ages of 5 and 39. Such, however, is not 
the case. 

Another and more convincing explanation of the surprisingly low 
tuberculosis rate recorded for New Haven is to be found in the fact that 
deaths from tuberculosis in state institutions are charged to the towns in 
which the institutions are located rather than to those from which the 
patient came. Dr. J. T. Black, secretary of the State Board of Health, 
informs us that 53 deaths of New Haven residents occurred in the four 
state hospitals in 1915 and 43 in 1916. If these were added to the tuber- 
culosis deaths recorded in New Haven they would increase the rate for 
this disease about 30 points and make it identical with the general average 
for the registration cities. Since the state hospitals were opened in 1907- 
09 the cause of the apparent drop in death rate in 1910-11 is obvious. 

The Cause of the Excessive Death Rate of Nezv Haven 

We have seen that the crude general death rate of New Haven is high ; 
and we have now reviewed the principal communicable and obviously 
controllable causes of death and found them to be low. To what causes 
then is the high general death rate due ? 

This question is answered by Fig. 27 in which we have plotted the 
differences between the New Haven death rates for certain individual 
diseases and the average rates for the group of registration cities (1910- 
14). It will be noted that the acute communicable diseases and tubercu- 
losis, with infant diarrhea (the chief single factor in infant mortality) 
and violence, are all below the line, that is, they show a lower death rate 
for New Haven than for the group of registration cities. On the other 
hand the diseases which show a marked excess in New Haven are pneu- 
monia, cancer and the constitutional disorders of later life, organic 
diseases of the heart, cerebral hemorrhage and nephritis. Typhoid fever 
has been slightly in excess in New Haven, and the excess of tubercular 



io6 



Health Survey of New Haven 



diseases other than lung tuberculosis (which are frequently due to milk 
infection from tuberculous cows) seems to us highly significant in view of 
the fact that so large a proportion of the New Haven milk supply is 
unpasteurized. The high rate for congenital debility emphasizes the need 
for prenatal care, which we have pointed out in an earlier section. 



Cerebral Orgamc Cancer Nephritis Bronchitis All other ConoeniW Other 
Hemorrha* DilMMS W other Defined Debility Form; of 

ofthe Heart Rspirtory Causes Tuberculosis 




Diarrhea. Tuberculosis 

under of the 
Diseases Violence 2 Years Lungs 



FIG. XXVII 

Excess or Deficiency in the Death Rate from Individual Causes in New Haven as compared with 

the average rate for the group of Registration Cities (1910-1914) 

Figures indicate differences in rates per 100.000 population between New Haven and the reg- 
istration cities. Diseases in which the New Haven rate exceeds the registration group average 
are plotted above the line, and those in which the New Haven rate is less than the average 
registration cities below the line. 



The Problem of Pneumonia 

Pneumonia is the most deadly of all diseases in New Haven, causing 
12.6 per cent of the deaths from all causes. Furthermore, as shown by 
Fig. 28, its incidence here is markedly excessive as compared with the 
general average for all registration cities. The New Haven rate for the 
period 1906-14 was 181 per 100,000 as against 140 for the group of 
registration cities. 



PNEUMONIA DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909" 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 177 177 115 134 208 212 225 188 193 222 250 

All registration cities 121 131 105 108 175 157 156 158 151 



260 



240 



220 



200 



,180 



O '60 
O 



140 



Q> 

Q 



120 
100 
90 
60 
40 
20 




New Haven 
---Registration Cities 



1906 



1908 



1914 



1916 



1910 1912 

PIG. XXVIII 
Death Rate from Pneumonia in New Haven compared with the average for all Registration Cities 



jo8 Health Survey of New Haven 

It might at first be thought that this high incidence of pneumonia was 
due to an abnormal age distribution of the population, since pneumonia 
is preeminently a disease of infancy and old age. Our analysis of the 
age distribution of the population of New Haven (see page 17), however, 
scarcely indicates an excess of infants and old people sufficient to account 
for the difference in death rates. Furthermore the table below shows 
that the New Haven pneumonia death rate is equally excessive at all age 
periods. 

A statistical study which is now being conducted by Mr. David Green- 
berg and Mr. C. C. Chen in this laboratory suggests that the problem is 
primarily one of geography rather than of population. The tables below 
prepared by them in the course of their study show the pneumonia death 
rate at different age periods for certain groups of cities. It will be noted 
that the high pneumonia rate of New Haven is simply typical of a condi- 
tion which prevails throughout all the New England cities. Aside from 
the very high rate for pneumonia among infants in Fall River (due 
chiefly to interference with maternal care due to women's labor), Boston, 
Fall River, New Haven and Providence show almost identical conditions, 
conditions which are sharply contrasted with those which obtain in the 
group of inland cities tabulated for comparison. 

The high pneumonia rate in New Haven may therefore be considered 
as primarily of geographical and presumably of climatic origin. The fact 
that Mr. Greenberg and Mr. Chen find the rate goes up again in Chicago 
and other lake cities suggests that either the moisture, or the sudden 
changes in temperature, associated with the proximity of large bodies of 
water, may play a part in this phenomenon. 

PNEUMONIA DEATH RATES AT DIFFERENT AGE PERIODS (1908-12) 
DEATHS PER 100,000 



Boston 


Under 5 years 

405 


5-39 years 

49 


40-49 years 

146 


50-59 years 
227 


Over 60 years 
507 


Fall River 


706 


34 


62 


1 55 


458 


New Haven 


377 


47 


137 


239 


590 


Providence , 


371 


36 


98 


202 


sa 



Cleveland 130 20 82 145 358 

Cincinnati 107 33 92 123 402 

Columbus 197 27 50 93 387 

Indianapolis 113 23 58 99 274 

Rochester 122 26 80 106 378 

Whatever the factors involved, it is clear that the heavy incidence of 
pneumonia, all over the country, and particularly along the Atlantic coast, 
constitutes a health problem of no mean magnitude. Furthermore, as 



Health Survey of New Haven jop 

shown by the figures cited on page 106, the prevalence of this disease is 
increasing from year to year. 

Measures for the control of pneumonia may be instituted along two 
distinct lines. In the first place, it is reasonably certain that a lowering 
of vital resistance by indoor life in overheated rooms and with over- 
heavy clothing, followed by exposure to sudden chill, is an important 
factor in bringing on attacks of this disease, as is a more general reduc- 
tion in resistance due to overwork, underfeeding, alcoholism and un- 
hygienic living of any kind. Sound habits of personal hygiene and a 
rational stimulation of the circulatory machinery of the body by fresh 
air, proper clothing and bathing are therefore essential in the campaign 
against pneumonia. Infants may be safeguarded along these lines 
through the instructive work of the infant welfare stations, and the 
hygienic education of the general public will help in combating the disease 
among adults. 

The recent advances in bacteriology which have shown that pneumonia 
may be due to several distinct types of bacteria and have provided us with 
a serum for the treatment of the disease caused by at least one of the 
most deadly types have opened the way for control along more direct 
public health lines. We believe that the time is soon coming when pneu- 
monia should be made a reportable disease and that it is already proper 
to insist that health departments provide diagnostic facilities for deter- 
mining which type of pneumococcus is at work in a given case and supply 
the appropriate sera for treating this disease. 

Cancer 

The death rate from cancer is higher in New Haven than in the group 
of registration cities, and it appears to be steadily increasing from year 
to year. The recent studies of Mr. F. L. Hoffman indicate that this 
increase is a real and not merely an -apparent one. 

CANCER DEATH RATE PER 100,000 

1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 

New Haven 79 86 92 98 95 91 102 96 114 94 110 

All registration cities 74 75 76 79 81 81 84 87 88 

Like pneumonia, cancer has in the past figured but slightly in the 
program of the Health Department. We know little of its cause and we 
have no medicaments to cure it. On the other hand, the evidence is clear 
that early recognition and prompt surgical care will, in a considerable 
proportion of cases, effect a cure. Just as clinics are organized to secure 
early diagnosis of tuberculosis and patients are brought to them by a 



no 



Health Survey of New Haven 



comprehensive system of popular education, so cancer may be fought 
with similar methods and similar hope of success. The American 
Society for the Control of Cancer has been organized to promote 
just such a movement and many state and city boards of health have 
begun work along the lines it has laid out. The time is not perhaps 
ripe for urging the initiation of such a movement on the part of the 
Health Department of New Haven. The menace of cancer, however, 
constitutes one of our largest health problems, and Connecticut should 
at least have a branch of the national society to study this question and 
crystallize sentiment looking toward definite action in the future. 



120 



100 




1 



40 




New Haven 

---Registration Cities 



1906 



1908 



1914 



19)0 1912 

PIG. XXIX 
Death Rate from Cancer in New Haven compared with the average for all Registration Cities 



1916 



Organic Disorders of Adult Life 

The three other important causes of death not hitherto discussed are 
organic heart disease, second in rank and causing 10.2 per cent of all 
deaths ; nephritis, third in rank, causing 8.1 per cent of all deaths ; and 



Health Survey of New Haven in 

cerebral hemorrhage, sixth in rank, causing 5.8 per cent of all deaths. 
These are all old age diseases due in large measure to normal degenera- 
tive changes. Their prevalence in New Haven is partly to be accounted 
for, as in the case of pneumonia, by the age distribution of the population 
and perhaps in part by its social make-up. 

There is but little that can be done along ordinary public health lines 
for the restriction of these disorders. A considerable proportion of them 
are due to obscure bacterial infections and some measure of improvement 
may be expected from the control of such infections by the supervision of 
the acute communicable diseases, by the treatment of diseased tonsils 
and by advances in dental hygiene. General progress in personal hygiene 
through public health education and the progress of the anti-alcohol 
campaign will be of material assistance. Our most important weapon 
against the degenerative diseases will, however, be the growth of system- 
atic medical examination, for the detection and treatment of these dis- 
orders in their early stages which is the first essential of a rational and 
effective control. This, too, is perhaps largely a problem for the future. 
The movement for health insurance, however, becomes highly significant 
in this connection. 



Is New Haven's Health Task Accomplished? 

To summarize our brief survey of the vital statistics of New Haven, it 
is apparent that while the general death rate of the city is somewhat 
above the normal, this excess is primarily due to pneumonia, cancer and 
constitutional disorders of later life which in the past have not commonly 
fallen within the purview of the Health Department. Infant mortality 
and the acute contagia, easily controllable diseases, commonly used as 
indices of the sanitary condition of a community, show gratifyingly low 
death rates, while tuberculosis and typhoid fever are about normal. It 
might be concluded from these facts 'that New Haven may properly rest 
upon its laurels, pointing with pride to its record for infant mortality and 
ascribing its pneumonia, cancer and heart disease to causes beyond human 
control. 

We do not believe that such a conclusion will be drawn by the citizens 
of New Haven. That our record is better than the average registration 
city in these important respects is encouraging but not satisfying. The 
increasing death rate from pneumonia, cancer and the degenerative dis- 
eases cannot be accepted as an inevitable fact. We have indicated methods 
by which even these diseases can be attacked with good hope of success. 
A health department organized along the lines we have laid down with a 
statistical department, a modern laboratory, a staff of physicians and 



ii2 Health Survey of New Haven 

nurses, and an organization freeing the Health Officer from administra- 
tive detail so that he could work out larger policies would ensure an 
adequate attack upon these problems in the future. 

Even in regard to the classical objectives of the Health Department, 
much remains to be done. The fact that New Haven has done more than 
the average city in some respects does not mean that it has done all that it 
could do or all that the most advanced communities have already done. 
In the table below we have worked out the death rates from tuberculosis 
and infant diarrhea and the case rate from typhoid fever for ach ward 
of the city for the years 1911-15. The inequalities manifest indicate how 
far certain sections of the city are from the health standard of the more 
fortunate neighborhoods. Wards 3 and 7 have twice as much tubercu- 
losis as Wards 1 and 13. Wards 5 and 7 have three times as much infant 
diarrhea as Wards 1, 8, 9, 10 or 13. Wards 5 and 11 have twice as much 
typhoid fever as Wards 1, 8 or 15. 



INCIDENCE OF CERTAIN DISEASES BY WARDS 



Ward 

1 ., 

2 .. 

3 .. 

4 .. 

5 .. 

6 .. 

7 .. 

8 .. 

9 .. 

10 .. 

11 .. 

12 .. 

13 .. 

14 .. 

15 . 



Deaths per 100,000 Cases per 100,000 


Tuberculosis 


Diarrhea under 2 


Typhoid Fever 


40 


5 


68 


85 


46 


98 


104 


71 


123 


73 


56 


104 


87 


150 


348 


70 


82 


129 


148 


139 


125 


65 


11 


51 


87 


32 


110 


57 


16 


89 


75 


67 


150 


85 


58 


71 


52 


28 


72 


57 


78 


71 


58 


42 


26 



Many factors of course come in to affect such district death rates. 
For instance, Ward 1 with its large student population is not comparable 
with any other group. Throughout the city the rate for infant diarrhea 
will naturally be high in the sections with a high birth rate. Nevertheless, 
after all allowances are made, the figures do indicate wide and real dis- 
crepancies. The one factor which is of supreme importance in relation 
to these differences is the economic status of the population. Through 
the courtesy of the Organized Charities, the United ^Relief Society, the 
Hebrew Charities Society and the Sisterhood of the Mishkan-Israel 
Temple, we have obtained statistics of the distribution by wards of the 



Typhoid Fever 




234567 



I 8 9 10 



IZ 13 14 15 



Wards 
PIG. XXX 

Deaths from Typhoid Fever. Tuberculosis and Infant Diarrhea in New Haven by Wards (1911- 
1915) . The poorer wards are grouped together on the left of the diagram, while the more prosper- 
ous wards are plotted on the right. 



//4 Health Survey of New Haven 

cases which received relief in any form from these organizations during 
the years 1913-15. The City Department of Charities and Correction was 
unable to assist us and no attempt has been made to secure data as to relief 
furnished by churches and other private organizations. The statistics are 
therefore only of rough approximate significance since they are markedly 
affected by local inequalities in the distribution of special racial and reli- 
gious groups. They indicate, however, that the 15 wards of the city may 
be broadly divided into two groups, Wards 2 to 7 which are inhabited by 
the poorer population, and Wards 1 and 8 to 15 in which the inhabitants 
are in general of a more prosperous class. We have plotted in Fig. 30 
the tuberculosis and diarrheal death rates and the typhoid case rate for 
each ward, with the poorer wards on the left and the more prosperous 
ones on the right. In the table below we have calculated the incidence 
rates for the two population groups as a whole. 

INCIDENCE OF DISEASES IN THE POORER AND IN THE MORE PROSPEROUS SECTIONS OF 

THE CITY 

Tuberculosis Diarrhea under 2 Typhoid Fever 
Wards Deaths per 100,000 Deaths per 100,000 Cases per 100,000 

2-7 93 68 126 

1, 8-15 62 33 73 

The inequalities between these figures may perhaps be taken as an indi- 
cation of certain of the opportunities for public health progress in New 
Haven. The high death rates in the poorer districts are no doubt in large 
part due to the direct influence of poverty and ignorance and to the poor 
protoplasm from which in many cases poverty and ignorance arise. It 
is precisely these unfortunates who are unable to protect themselves who 
should be safeguarded by an efficient health department organized for 
education and for leadership. Sir John Simon, the pioneer English sani- 
tarian, speaking of the closely allied problem of industrial workers, said 
in one of his reports fifty years ago, "That they have causes of disease 
indolently left to blight them amid their toil ... is surely an intolerable 
wrong ; and to be able to redress that wrong is perhaps among the greatest 
opportunities for good which human institutions can afford." 



University of Toronto 
Library 



: 



tni I 



: i 



'- ! 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



t: 



