-n?"/? 

.^^y 






, M Ml m .. » * m ». * ft «■' *•• u i% 

HMM^iM,. *. *. »:■ r ■«■ Jie » ^. :: I'' 

:i^ ^5^- ;jk^ 4^. m^i :eM> .«*v s^. - ^v.-.'^^^;- ^*.r- ^s..?^ 



^ ^;»t:ii::CM:»M:»ri"ft-i^-ii 



i^y :*^-*"»-r%"«^"» »:" « 



TX 747 
.n68 
Copy 1 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



PART] 




III Hi I ill. iiiiiiiiiiiii iiui 

014 336 412 4 • 



ERCE 



Economic Circular No. 29 Issued August 8, 1917 



WHY AND HOW TO* tJSE SALT AND SMOKED FISH.'^ 

Sixly-ane Ways of Cooking Them. 

Madam Housekeeper : How much do you know about salt and 
smoked fish? Do you know the names of more than four or five of 
each, or a dozen ways, all told, of cooking them? If you do, you are 
to be congratulated, for your knowledge is above the average. But 
do you know that there are enough w^ays of cooking these fishes to 
provide a new recipe once a week for a year and not exhaust the 
possibilities or to serve a new dish every day of the year, if you 
vary the kind of fish used? You probably do not, and it is the 
purpose of this little circular to tell you how to do these things and 
to tell a little more about the subject. 

Americans are notoriously deficient as fish eaters, and they are 
particularly neglectful of cured or preserved fishes, excepting those 
obtainable in tin. Less than 2 pounds per capita is the yearly con- 
sumption of salt and smoked fish, and of this the greater part is 
eaten by the foreign born. This condition exists notwithstanding 
that there are large areas of the country in which transportation 
difficulties make it almost or quite impossible to get fresh fish with 
frequency, if at all. 

Where fresh fish are not obtainable, or in those seasons when they 
are relatively scarce almost everywhere, smoked and salt fish make a 
very acceptable and low-priced substitute, and for breakfast many 
persons give them preference under all conditions. For the winter's 
suppl};-, salt fish can be " laid in " in quantity and, therefore, have 
the merit of convenience and availability for emergencies. Smoked 
fish are, generally, more perishable than salt fish unless specially 
packedj but they also can be held for sufficient periods to make them 
convenient as well as delectable. 

Because they are comparatively nonperishable,' salt fishes, unless 
specially packed and in expensive containers, are generally sold at 
retail at a lower price than the same fishes fresh, but it is not gen- 
erally known that pound for pound, both salt and smoked, they con- 
tain more nutriment than when fresh. This is because the curing 
extracts a large part of the water, and what is left is more nearly 
all food. Of dry-salted cod, for instance, about 22 per cent is pro- 
tein, while that most valuable of foodstuffs constitutes but about 16 
per cent of the fresh fish. Mackerel contains about 22 per cent when 
salted and 18 per cent when fresh. At the same price per pound, 



By H. F. Moore, Deputy Comniissiouer, Bureau of Fisheries. 



Monograph 



salt cod is 37 per cent and salt mackerel 22 per cent cheaper than 
the same fish fresh. That is a point worthy of consideration, Mada'm 
Housekeeper. 

One of your difficulties in marketing may be that you do not 
know what to ask for, but the lists given in connection with the 
recipes will help to supply you with a fish vocabulary which you may 
use to advantage. Perhaps some of these may not be readily obtain- 
able in your locality, because tliey are little known or new, but you 
will help to vary the national diet and prevent waste if you will 
ask your dealer for them. Remember that the fishermen will not 
catch in large numbers nor the dealer handle fish that nobody asks 
for, and when they get in the nets they are often thrown away — a 
sheer loss of good food. 

Salt fish must be freshened before they are used, but that requires 
little more trouble than mere forethought. Place them, flesh side 
down, in a large volume of water and leave them there for from 12 to 
48 hours, according to taste and the size and thickness of the fish. 
Change the water several times. The extraction of the salt may be 
hastened if the fish be raised above the bottom of the container by 
placing it on a wire tray or several clean sticks and, if the pieces be 
thick, by making several deep incisions in the flesh. Less freshening 
is required if the fish be boiled or otherwise cooked in liquid than if 
used for broiling or frying. 

RECIPES." 

SALT FISH. 

The following recipes may be used for almost any dried gait fish, 
such as cod, pollack, haddock, hake, whiting, burbot, channel bass, 
barraconda, drumfish, shark, etc. Many of the recipes may be used 
for sablefish by reducing or omitting the fats. Bacon and salt-pork 
fats may be substituted for butter in many cases. Some of these fish 
are sometimes so salt as to require considerable soaking, sometimes 
so fresh as to require little or none. The cook must use her own 
judgment with the particular material at hand. 

1. Salt-fish chowder. — Take one-half a pint of picked salt fish. Pare and thinly 
slice 1 pint of raw potatoes and 1 large white onion ; put in a hot buttered 
baking dish in alternate layers of fish, onion, potato, and 1 cracker, crushed 
fine. Add salt and cayenne pepper to taste, cover with hot water, and boil 
gently for 20 minutes. Add 1 pint of hot milk and a few tablespoonfuls oi 
good cream, and let boil up. 

2. Baked salt fish. — Take a cup of picked fish and stew gently in warm water. 
Mix 2 cups of cold mashed potatoes with a pint of milk, 2 eggs, a lujnp of butter 
the size of an egg, or bacon fat, a seasoning of pepper, and a pinch of salt if 
necessary. Mix with the fish, turn into a buttered pudding dish, and bake about 
half an hour. 

" Collated and adapted from vai-ious sources by William C. Kendall, scientific assistant, 
and Rose M. McDonald, librarian, Bureau of Fisheries. 

D. dt-S>. 

AUG V4 1917 



3. Baked salt fish. — To a large teacup of fisli, picked fine, add 2 cups of milk, 
2 well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper to taste, and half a cup of butter, or bacon 
fat ; mix very thoroughly, and bake half an hour, 

4. Salt-flsh cups. — Boil 1 cup of prepared salt fish for 20 minutes, drain, and 
set aside until cold. Add 2 cups of bread crumbs and 2 well-beaten eggs. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Mix well, then make into balls and with the fingers 
form into cupliko shapes. Place cups in greased pan and break an egg into 
each one; put a little butter and salt on top of each. Bake slowly in the 
oven until eggs are solid. If garnished with lettuce leaves or parsley, it adds 
to the appearance. 

5. Scalloped salt fish. — ]\Iix a cup and a half of cold boiled rice with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of cream ; alternate the rice in a buttered baking dish with fish finely 
flaked, finishing with rice. Carefully break 4 eggs on top; season with salt, 
pepper, and bits of butter. Bake until the eggs are set. Individual ramekins 
may be used and an egg slipped on each. 

6. i>alt-fish souffle. — Boil prepai-ed fish for 20 minutes ; drain the fish, pound 
it. and run through a sieve or meat chopper ; add 2 ounces of melted butter, t he 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and season with pepper and salt to taste. Beat up the 
whites of eggs to stilf froth, add them lightly to the other mixture in a pie 
dish, and bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. 

7. Salt-fish souffle. — Boil 1 pint prepared fish for 20 minutes ; drain, and set 
aside until cold. Boil 8 good-sized potatoes and mash smooth ; season to taste 
with salt and pepper and 2 large tsiblespoonfuls of butter. Add three-quarters 
of a cup of hot milk and stir in 2 well-beaten eggs. Turn into a greased baking 
dish and heat in the oven about 10 minutes. Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a 
stiff froth ; add half a teaspoonful of salt, then add 2 beaten yolks. Spread 
this over the top of the fish and return to the oven to brown. Serve from the 
same dish while hot. 

8. Salt fish ail gratin. — Boil a pound of fish gently for 2 hours, putting it 
over the fire in tepid water; let it get cold and mince it fine. Take a cup of 
drawn butter made by cooking together a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour and stirring them into a cup of boiling water until the sauce is thick and 
smooth. Stir the fish into this, pepper to taste, mix with it 2 tablespoonfuls 
of grated cheese, turn into a baking dish, strew with crumbs and a bit of 
butter and a little more grated cheese, and brown in the oven. 

9. Salt-flsh pudding. — Mix together 2 cups of flaked fish, 1^ cups of stale 
bread crumbs, 2 cups of milk. 2 well-beaten eggs, one-third cup of melted butter, 
one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover with one-third cup of buttered crumbs, sprinkle with 
grated cheese, and bake to a light brown. 

10. Baked salt ;?.s7(.— Boil for 20 minutes enough fish to make 2 cups of flaked 
or shredded fish ; drain, and set away until cold. Add to the fish 1 cupful of 
mashed potatoes. Mix well with 1 cup of milk and the yolks of 2 eggs well 
whipped. Add a tablespoonful of melted butter, salt and pepper to taste, and .3 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Turn into a greased baking dish, 
sprinkle grated cheese over the top, and bake to a golden brown; Serve 
immediately. 

11. Broiled-salt fish. — Cut a square the size you desire from the thickest part 
of the fish. Take off the skin, and wash clean ; broil over clear coals 10 min- 
utes, then dip in boiling water, butter and serve. 

12. Boiled salt fish. — Skin IJ pounds of fish and cut into suitable pieces. Put 
the stewpan with water on the fire, adding a couple of onions cut into quarters. 
When at a boiling point, place the fish in it and wait until it boils again, when 
it should be taken from the fire at once and left to draw for 5 minutes longer. 



Take out of the pan, place on a colander, season it, and put on a hot plate. 
Serve with browned butter and mustard. 

13. Salt-fish dinner.— Gut up one-half pound salt mixed pork in tiny squares 
and fry brown. Boil the number of potatoes needed. Boil 1 pound of fish 15 
minutes ; drain and put on platter. Put the pork scraps and fat in a gravy boat 
and the potatoes in a covered dish. Mix your potatoes and fish together on 
your plate at dinner and have the pork scraps and fat for gravy. 

14. Creamed salt fish. — Pick in small pieces 1 cup fish. Melt 1 tablespoonful 
butter, add 1 tablespoonful of flour, and pour on gradually 1 cup hot milk. 
Add fish, and turn on a hot platter. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. 
Serve with baked potatoes. 

15. Salt-fish casserole. — Cream fish as in recipe No. 14. Spread crumbed 
bread in bottom of casserole with butter, salt, and pepper. Pour in creamed 
fish while hot. Cover with bread crumbs and bake in hot oven until brown. 

16. Salt fish in cream. — Tear a piece of fish into small strips, wash clean, 
and place in a bowl with about a quart of water. Let it simmer half an hour, 
then pour off the water, and add 1 pint of new milk. When this comes to a 
boil, thicken with 1 spoonful of flour. Let it boil 5 minutes, then add butter 
the size of a walnut and a little pepper, and serve. 

17. Creamed salt fish in pepper cases. — Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, dash cayenne pepper, 1 pint hot milk, one-quarter pound picked 
fish which has been soaked over night. Blend the butter, flour, and pepper ; 
add the hot milk, little at a time; cook 2 minutes; then add the picketl fish 
and cook until creamy. Select large gi-een peppers of uniform size, cut length- 
wise, and remove seeds and veins, pour boiling water over them, and scald a 
few minutes to bring out and preserve their green color. Fill the pepper shells 
with the creamed fish and cover with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg imbbed 
through a sieve or vegetable press. 

18. Fried salt fish. — Boil a piece of fish until it is tender, but not broken. 
Drain, cut into slices an inch thick with a sharp knife, and wipe dry with a 
piece of cheesecloth. Dredge the slices with pepper, and lay them in a pint 
of milk in a baking dish or pan. Let soak in the milk for af least an hour, 
then dip each slice in beaten egg, seasoned with pepper only, and cover com- 
pletely with fine bread crumbs. Fry them a live bro\vn in hot fat sufficient to 
cover well. Garnish with cress or parsley and lemon, or serve a dish of crisp 
cucumber cut in thin slices and a little French dressing. 

19. Salt fish, Cuban style. — Pick fine a cupful of fish and soak in different 
water until fresh enough for u.se. Fry a chopped onion in a tablespoonful of 
butter to a rich brown, and add the drained fish with water enough to cover it, 
a green pepper chopped fine, and a cupful of stewed tomato. Cover and stew 
slowly for an hour. This may be served with toast. 

20. Salt- fish halls, No. 1. — Pick the fish apart. Boil potatoes and mash them. 
Mix fish and potatoes together while potatoes are hot, taking two-thirds pota- 
toes and one-third fish. Put in plenty of butter, make into balls, and fry in 
plenty of lard. Have lard hot before putting balls in. 

21. Salt-fish balls, No. 2. — Shred a piece of fish sufficient for 1-quart bowl 
full. Cover it with water and let it simmer gently until tender. Maj^h 6 
fresh-boiled potatoes white hot. Drain the fish, pound it, and r«n through a 
sieve; mix with this the mashed potatoes and 3 well-beaten eggs; season to 
taste, and add small lump of butter. Drop by the tablespoonful into a pan of 
boiling hot lard and fry until a delicate brown. Drain on brown paper, then 
serve very hot. 

22. Farm fi^h balls. — One cup salt fish, 2 cups raw potatoes cut in pieces; 
cook together. When done, put through sieve or meat grinder and add 1 egg. 
Make into balls and fry in deep fat. 



23. Salt-fish hash. — For 4 persons, take 2 cups of freshened salt fish, chop 
fine or run through a meat grinder ; an equal amount of cold boiled potatoes, 
treated in the same way ; mix and moisten with milk in which an egg has 
been thoroughly whipped. Fry some bacon or pork and use the fat for greasing 
the frying pan, in which the hash is fried brown. Now and then add sufficient 
fat to keep hash from burning, but not enough to make it too greasy. It may be 
turned like an omelet. Serve hot on platter with strips of bacon or pork, 

24. Salt-fish fritters. — Cut the fish into strips about the size of the finger. 
Wipe dry, dip each piece in fritter hatter, and fry brown in hot fat. 

25. Salt-fish omelet. — Put 1 pint of sliced raw potatoes in a stewpan, add 
1 pint of shredded and freshened fish, cover with cold water, and boil until the 
potatoes are done. Drain; add one-half cup of thin cream, 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and pepper and salt to taste. Beat thor- 
oughly until very light, fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs, cook in a 
frying pan until brown on the bottom, then fold like an omelet, and serve 
immediately. 

26. Salt-fish salad. — Take 3 pieces of fish cut 2 inches square ; split them in 
two; after soaking, drain and wipe dry. Baste each piece with a little butter, 
and broil. AVhen cool, tear them apart; cover with French salad dressing; let 
stand for 2 hours. Half fill a salad bowl with crisp lettuce leaves; drain the 
fish, add it to the lettuce, and add mayonnaise. When in season, slices of crisp 
cucumber may be added to the fish. 

The following recipes may be used for brine-salted fish, such as 
mackerel, atka fish, herring, alewives (river herring), shad, salmon, 
sablehsh, mullet, Avhiting, etc. In using sablefish, which is very rich, 
reduce the quantity of fats prescribed : 

27. Baked salt fish. — Put the fish in a pan, cover with cream or rich milk, 
and place in the oven. Cook until cream is brown. About 5 minutes before 
it is dished add a small piece of butter and some pepper. 

28. Broiled salt fish. — Dry the fish carefully and butter ; lay the fish in the 
broiler and broil a nice brown. Lay on a heated platter and pour over it a 
tablespoonful of butter mixed with a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, a 
tablespoonful of boiling water, a pinch of black pepper, and a tiny sour gherkin 
or cucumber pickle minced fine. 

29. Boiled salt jfe/i.^Boil from 1 to li pounds of fish 10 minutes or until 
meat leaves the bone. Serve with boiled potatoes. 

30. Creamed salt fish. — Wipe the fish dry and broil until well done, but, not 
too brown. Lay on a hot platter ; make a cup of cream sauce ; season with salt, 
pepper, and a little paprika. Just before pouring over the fish, which should 
have the bones removed, add to the sauce a well-beaten egg and a little lemon 
juice. Do not let the sauce stand after adding the egg and lemon. 

31. Pickled salt fish. — Pour boiling water over the fish and let it stand 15 
minutes ; drain off, and then pour on boiling vinegar with cloves and mace added. 

The following recipes are particularly adapted to such brine-salted 
fish as herring, alewives, mullet, lake herring (cisco), etc.: 

32. Fr-ied salt fish.— {Fish salted whole are preferred, though any salt fish 
may be prepared in the same way.) Wrap the whole fish in strong white paper. 
Brown paper or paper that has been waxed or printed upon should not be used. 
Grease the paper with a little butter or lard to prevent sticking. Put the fish 
in a hot frying pan that has been greased and fry about 4 minutes. Turn 
the fish over once in the pan. If the fish is too large for paper and pan, it may 
be cut in two and the pieces wrapped separately. Serve hot in the papei". This 



/ 



method of cooking hen-ing, which is simple and easy to do, preserves all the fats, 
juices, and aroma of the fish. 

33. Scalloped salt Jiah. — Take 4 or 5 salt herrings or equivalent amount of 
other fish, divide down the back, remove all skin and bone, and cut into squares. 
Have ready a dozen good-sized potatoes, cold boiled. Slice them, and put in 
alternate layers of fish and potatoes, with butter and pepper between each layer 
of fish. Begin and end with, a layer of potatoes, and have a generous layer of 
fish. Cover with a custard made of 3 cups of milk and 3 well-beaten eggs. 
Last of all add half a cup of fine bread crumbs mixed with a little softened 
butter. Bake 40 minutes. Serve from same dish, with folded napkin around 
the outside. 

34. Salt-herring pudding. — The herring or other fish are skinned and split 
and the backbone removed. The fish are then cut crosswise into strips about 
one-fourth inch wide.' An earthenware cooking vessel is moistened with a little 
water inside. Cut boiled potatoes into disks about one-fourth inch thick. Put 
a layer of the sliced potatoes on the bottom of the cooking vessel, then follow 
with a layer of fish strips ; thus alternating potatoes and fish until the vessel 
is filled to within about an inch of the top, potatoes forming the last layer. 
Two or more eggs are beaten and added to about one-half pint of rich milk. 
This cream is poured over the contents of the cooking vessel. Bake in an oven 
till the egg is coagulated and a slight brownish crust is formed on the top. 
Only a few minutes are required for this cooking. Serve hot. 

35. Salt-flsh salad. — Take 4 herrings or equivalent amount of otlier fish, 9 or 
10 good-sized potatoes, equal quantity red beets, 1 onion or more, one-half pound 
piece lean pork or veal. Skin and split the fish ; boil potatoes ; boil beets and 
pickle in strong vinegar overnight ; boil the meat. Cut all materials into small 
cubes one-eighth to one-fourth inch, the onions being cut finer. Mix all thor- 
oughly. Press into form and dump on platter. Decorate with hard eggs and 
garnish. Dressing can be made by mixing pickle from beets with equal propor- 
tion of cream. Serve cold, 

36. Salt-fish salad. — Remove the skin and bones from 2 salt herring or 
equivalent amount of other fish and mince fine; cut into cubes 1 cold boiled 
beet, 1 onion, 1 large pickle, 2 hard-boiled eggs, and 2 cold boiled potatoes ; add 
one-half cup of cold meat (veal preferred) ; cut fine ; mix all well with the fish ; 
moisten with sauce made of vinegar, mustard, and pepper; let stand over- 
night in a porcelain dish; stir once more thoroughly, and see that all is juicy. 
Then garnish in concentric rings with chopped parsley, whites of eggs, yellow 
of eggs, and beets. 

37. Salt-fl^h salad. — Remove the skin and backbone of 4 salt herring or 
equivalent amount of other fish and cut them into neat square pieces. Slice 
2 quarts of boiled potatoes. While hot, put them into a dish and pour over 
them weak vinegar enough to moisten *them. When cold, add the herring and 
the yolks of 4 hai-d-boiled eggs chopped \ip. If roe herring have been used, 
soak the roe in vinegar for a few minutes and strew the egg over the salad. 
This is true herring salad, but a French dressing may be added if desired. 

38. Mock caviar. — Two or three herring, or equivalent amount of other fish, 
are cleaned and laid in lukewarm milk for 5 hours. Skin and bone them, 
chop very fine, and mix with finely chopped onions and the juice of a lemon. 
Serve with buttered bread. 

SMOKED FISH. , 

The following recipes may be used for carp, catfish, finnan haddie 
(haddock), hake, pollack, lake trout, salmon, grayfish, shark, etc., 
and, with some reduction in the quantity of fats, for halibut, sable- 
fish, sturgeon, and eels. 



Some of these fish are sometimes so salty as to require considerable 
soaking, sometimes so fresh as to require little or none. The cook 
must use her own judgment with the particular material in hand. 

39. Smoked fi.sh icith rice. — Boil oue-lialf a pouud of rice in 1 quart of 
bouillon well done. Heat 4 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onions with some 
butter and 6 mashed white pepper seeds; with an additional teaspoonful of 
butter, mix with the rice. Skin and bone 2 or 3 medium-sized smoked fish ; 
I cut into small pieces and try a little while in butter. Butter a plate, on 
which place half of the rice, then the fish, and in turn the rest of the rice. 
Form this into a pyramid, baste with a beaten egg, dredge with grated cheese 
^and bread, add another small piece of butter, and bake, taking care that the 
[plate does not get too hot from below. 

' 40. Baked smoked fish. — Wash the fish thoroughly; soak one-half hour in 
[cold water, skin side up; cover with boiling water and let stand 5 minutes; 
^drain carefully ; and remove the skin and bone. Put the flaked fish in a 
^buttered dish and pour over it a white sauce equal in quantity to that of the 
fish. Cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and bake in the oven long enough 
CO brown the crumbs. 

i 41. Baked smoked eel. — Split the eels and remove backbones; cover with 
^bread or cracker crumbs mixed with whipped egg and milk. When baked, 
[Serve with green peas. 

I 42. Smoked sturgeon Jor dinner. — Place a piece of smoked sturgeon in a 
leep baking tin with a little good bouillon. Boil slowly until cooked through. 
When done, remove the fish and boil the broth down until it begins to brown; 
;;'apidly stir in a thin mixture of flour and water, cooking until brown. It 
:akes but a minute or two. Pour it over the sturgeon or serve separately in 
I gravy boat. Garnish the fish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, sliced lemon, 
j.nd watercress or parsley. 

\ 43. Broiled smoked fish. — With a sharp thin knife shave the fish in thin 
jfUices. Brush each slice with butter, dust with pepper, place in a fiu^ wire 
broiler, and toast for a few minutes exposed to a clear fire. jHave ready 
home thin toasted squares of bread ; place the fish on these, sprinkle a few 
Hrops of lemon juice on each slice, add a tiny bit of butter, and serve at once. 
I 44. Broiled smoked fish. — Take a half pound of smoked fish and parboil it 
minutes ; lay in cold water for the same length of time ; wipe dry ; and 
Vroil over a clear fire. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter while hot ; season with 
cayenne and the juice of half a lemon ; pile upon a hot plate, and serve with 
dry toast. 

45. Broiled smoked halibut. — Soak sliced smoked halibut in cold water until 
isufficiently freshened. Broil and serve with baked potatoes. If the halibut 
lis not sufficiently fat, it may be basted with butter. 

46. Smoked-fish cakes. — Mix an equal quantity of parboiled flaked smoked 
lash and mashed potatoes. Season with salt and pepper, add a beaten egg, 
Imold into cakes, and fry. 

] 47. Smoked-fish ramekins. — Cream together 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 of 
•gutter, cayenne pepper, and a little salt. Work into this 1 cup of cream and 
il of milk. Put on the fire, and when thoroughly heated add 2 cups of smoked 
(ish that has been broken into flakes. Butter ramekins and fill with creamed 
!ish. Set in a jjan of hot water and bake for half an hour. 

: 48. Canape of smoked fish. — Cut 6 slices one-quarter of an inch thick from a 
kale loaf of bread then cut each into 2-inch square pieces. Toast them to a nice 
i^lden brown and lightly butter. Cover them with very thin slices of smoked 
.i.sh nicely trimmed. Decorate with a little parsley, 6 quarters of lemon, and a 
liard-boiled egg finely chopped. Sprinkle this over them and serve. 



) 



8 

49. Russian canapes of smoked fish. — One teacup of smoked fish that has been 
passed through a chopper, 2 ounces of butter, 4 teaspoonfuls cream, ripe olives. 
Heat the butter until hot; mix with the fish. Add the cream, mis well, and 
spread on toast cut in fancy shapes. Garnish with olives. 

The following recipes may be used for smoked fish, such as bowfin, 
mooneye, shad, lake herring (cisco), whitefish, slack-salted herring, 
alewives (river herring), mullet, finnan haddie (haddock), pollock, 
hake, and whiting. No soaking required: 

50. French kippered herring omelet. — Flake the fish and then toss in a little 
butter. Beat 4 eggs very light and add the fish. Melt a little butter in a frying ' 
pan, pour in the mixture, and cook over the fire evenly. When the bottom of - 
the omelet is brown and there is still a certain amount of liquid egg on the top, ' 
fold one half over the other half and slip the omelet out ou a hot dish. Serve ; 
without loss of time. I 

51. Smoked-fish patties. — Take 2 cups ground fish, 2 cups cracker crumbs, 1 \ 
egg, and one-half cup of milk or cream. Beat egg, add remainder of ingredi- *. 
ents, and form into patties. Put equal parts of butter and lard in skillet and 
fiy to a golden brown. Serve on hot platter garnished with parsley. j 

52. Boiled smoked fish. — Boil sufficient finnan haddie, or other fish similarly /. 
cured, for the number of persons to be served. When done, remove the skin."? 
and bones. Make sauce by heating milk thickened with a little flour, to which | 
add butter ; salt and pepper to taste. Serve with baked potatoes on the side. 

53. Creamed smoked fish on toast. — Take 2 cups milk or cream, 2 tablespoon 
f uls of flour, and 1 cup smoked fish cut into small pieces. Boil milk and flour. ^ 
then add fish. Serve hot on toast. ► 

54. Broiled smoked fish. — Place fish ou gridiron, flesh side down, over glowing^- 
fire. When a rich brown, remove from fire and serve with melted butter. i 

55. Baked smoked fish in paper. — Wrap one average-size fish in one or two *» 
thicknesses of paper (preferably the brown paper used by butchers), place in a i 
pan, and put in a hot oven for one-half hour. The fish is thus thoroughly ■ 
heated witlTout being dried out. Before serving remove paper wrapping and | 
the skin of the fish. \ , 

56. Panned smoked fish. — Place fish, opened and spread out, in pan. Dot withf 
generous lumps of butter, and add a little milk. Place in oven until thoroughly' 
heated. This makes a delicious breakfast dish. ' 

57. Smoked-fish salad. — Take equal parts of smoked fish and celery, cut into 
small pieces, and add 1 cup of nut meats. Pour over this mayonnaise dressing 
to which whipped cream has been added. 

The following recipes may be used for hard-salted smoked herring 
and alewives, which require soaking : 

58. Fried smoked herring. — Clean the fish, and if they are dry in meat pour 
some warm water over them ; when dry again, fry in oil or Initter. Serve with 
potatoes or parsnips. 

59. Fried smoked herring. — The fish are opened and soaked for 12 hours in 
warm milk ; then wipe dry and fry in butter or oil until the skin bursts. Serve 
with oil or butter and toast. 

60. Smoked herring a la Dauphin. — Skin and bone the fish, then soak half an 
hour in warm milk. Wipe dry and dip in a sauce of melted butter, the beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs, and finely chopped chives. Fry with some browned flour in a 
skillet. Serve with toasted bread on which some cayenne pepper is sprinkled. 

61. Smoked herring a VltaUenne. — The fish is well cleaned, washed in boiling 
water, dried, and inside and out dredged with flour. Fry in oil, to which some 
chopped parsley is added, and serve with maccaroni. 

WASHINGTON : GOVERXMEXT PRINTING OFFICE : 1917 



\ 




0014 336 412 4 



1 '^'f " 



•! ll' 4 ^ -fl *| lifi. +^ #1 »> ,;. 

4 4 »> i 'I ^: ^a ^ ■ 

Si ,^ft „ ll ^ t, >J vti .il: ^^ ,-•■., *V ■ <t 

■-I .4 r« ;^# «i .# -E .^ 4^*(t' 






,"/ 



;r m-,W « * # »^ .# 

:•? . tf ■#■ # # * ■#■ '^ ' # ■?fe.. . 
Jt.' ,11^ ^r , tl ■ 4 ' * -f # •* '# ■ -^^ 

'^■» ft-:«t' *-# * 1^ ■ *• . 

. V , 4^# ;»h # %■ # «'f .#• ■# «• 

.. .y#,*,*r^*/t. #■;#.#■ # * * # 

,#^# ^ ;« .# J^ .* ,«? 4 * •*;^# i 
jr *r i^ # #-#-ft %'»i^ M'f^ isr* 4»'«» 



>% -if .if-'!# :># ■# "IV 't> '^ '# 'f*: ■-: 
m ,m -it- ■ i(f ^M ';ft 'if ^aif " ait- ^ # 'It^' ' ifr ' # "^v ' ^i 

3t ,;t a ^a ^#- af .t ift -f :#% » ^# ■« '#• ^^^ 

«{..*■?»!• »<»-■ -« s- si^ if ,i,-; if-s. «'i «'l; 



