
to 



Houoehold i3cience 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



THE JOURNAL 

OF '' 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 

THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



COMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 
VOL. IX, 1917 



BALTIMORE, MD. 
1917 



J 7 




J10ir>73 



Vol. IX, No. 1 JANUARY, 1917 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Alice P. Norton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 

Elilorial Board 
Mrs. >fARY H .-^bel A.vsa Barrows C. F. La.vcworthy Isabel Ely Lord Katharine Blunt 

Ex-Otflcio .l/ewiVrj— Catharine J. MacKay, President American Home Economics Association 
Emma H. Ginther. Chairm.-in Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Whefler. Chairman Science Section 
N'eale S. Knowles, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Collaborators — The GfTiccrs. Members of the Council, and Advisers 



CONTENTS 

The Developmknt (IF HoMK EcoNtniK's Isabel Broier 1 

Financing the Home Demonstration Wcjrk . . . . D.W. Working S 

The New Feeding IN THE Treatment oi- Typhoid Fever Alice Clorinda Walton 14 

The New Dietetic Treatment OF Diabetes Mellitis Lcnna 1-. Cooper V) 

Sweeping Powukr 26 

A Massachusetts Cannini; Schuul Laura Comslock 27 

The Need of Standardization 28 

For the Homemaker 29 

Announcement 29 

Homemaking as a Pr(jfessi()\ Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe 29 

Distribution: What Do Ym- Know .\h()IT It? Percival l-'assig 33 

The Food Supply 54. 

Food Labels 3^, 

Editorial - 3g 

Comment and Discussion 39 

The Question Box 4(j 

Books and Literature 41 

Bibliography of Home Economics 45 

News from the Field 47 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics .Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order payable 
to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.\XGE IX ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is to take euect. The subscriber's Old Address should be cleariy indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltqiore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 




A Ma.ssa< III sKTTs C ANNiN(, Scnooi. (Scc pagc 21] 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX JANUARY, 1917 No. 1 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 

ISABEL BEVIER 
Director of Household Science, University of Illinois 

In the Journal for October, 1911, a memorial number for Mrs. Ellen 
H. Richards, there is a review of the development of Home Economics 
in the United States. It is the purpose of this article to give some idea 
of the progress of the subject in the United States since that time. 

As will be seen by reference to the article mentioned, by 1911 Home 
Economics was at least on trial in quite a variety of organizations and 
institutions. It was included in the curriculum of many pubHc and 
private schools, practically all of the state universities and Land Grant 
colleges, and in many endowed institutions. Women's clubs, Young 
Women's Christian Associations, and many philanthropic organiza- 
tions had sought its aid in their work. 

Owing to the fact that the agricultural colleges had put emphasis 
upon the scientific phases of the work, the term "scientific" was per- 
haps a little over-worked at that time, and led the housekeeper to an- 
nounce that she did not know anything about science, but she could 
cook. 

A study of the Journal for the past five years gives one the impres- 
sion that this period has been one of steady growth and adaptation of 
Home Economics to a great many types of work and also that there 
has been an attempt at standardization, not only of the subject matter 
to be taught, but also of the methods of teaching it. For example, 
a differentiation of high school from college work was easily made on 
the use of the word, "scientific." It was evident that while it was 
possible in college courses to have a strong basis of science, such a plan 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

was quite impossible in the high school, in so far as the content of the 
course was concerned. There the term, "scientific," refer- ed to the 
method to be used. The part upon which emphasis could be placed 
for the student was careful manipulation, cost, and the digestion of 
food connected with the student's knowledge of physiology. The 
reaction from the overworking of the term, "scientific", led to undue 
emphasis upon the word, "practical", as though the two terms must 
of necessity be opposing ones, and great stress was placed upon the 
so-called "practical courses" with emphasis upon skill in manipulation, 
the cost and quality of the finished product, and this "practice" idea 
was aided by the establishment later of the practice houses or apart- 
ments as a feature of the work. 

The criticism of these houses is: first, that the standard of living is 
too costly, both as regards time and money expended; second, that 
so many students do the work that no one individual is responsible 
for any part of the result; third, that conditions are so abnormal 
that the practice housekeeping has little value. Notwithstanding the 
criticism, the first experimental house, which was at the University 
of lUinois, 1908, has been followed by many others, notably, Rock Hill, 
South Carolina; Denton, Texas; Pratt Institute; Wisconsin; Cornell; 
and Mississippi State College for Women ; and some form of practice 
housekeeping is offered now in most institutions. 

The same idea emphasized household management courses as part 
of the preparation of the manager of an institution. All these are 
but indications of the public appreciation of the breadth of the subject 
and the recognition of its ability to help in the solution of the problems 
of daily life. Gradually the public conception grew to the realization 
that Home Economics meant not only selection and preparation of 
food, but that its goal was really the improvement of the home. 
Accordingly, one finds in the literature pleas for courses on the home, 
notices of sp>ccial courses offered for homemakers, and suggestions for 
the study of the family and for art in the home. 

Home Economics did not escape that watchword, "efficiency," and 
the i)romoters of scientific management found a wide field for clTort 
in the haphazard business of housekeeping. This realization that 
Home Economics was working for the home, and seeking to enable the 
woman to see the home in its larger aspects and her part and place in 
it, led very naturally to emphasis on the economic questions involved 
in home management and furnishing, and the words "division of income" 



1917] THE DEVELOPMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 3 

and "family budgets" were added to the vocabulary of Home Economics. 
Any serious study of the home, its processes and products, disclosed 
at once the fact that many questions concerning time-honored prac- 
tices could not be answered, and pointed very clearly to the need for re- 
search, and so that phase of the subject received attention. Home 
Economics had profited greatly by the research in the problems of nu- 
trition, but it began to be realized that many of the questions con- 
cerning household processes were most likely to be solved by women; 
witness the answer to the question, "What makes jelly jell?" 

While the homemaker was especially interested in the food prob- 
lem within the home, the social worker, the teacher, and the physician 
were working at the problem of food for the child in school, and thus a 
new impetus was given to the study of that very important question, 
the feeding of school children. School boards took up this question 
and provision was made in many school buildings for the serving of 
lunches under the direction of the teacher of Home Economics and as 
a part of her regular duties. 

Once this connection between food and health was recognized, many 
new lines of work were suggested, such as the housing problem, and the 
clothing question. Indeed, a new profession was opened to women, 
viz., that of the dietitian. Ordinary people began to understand that 
the term, "diet," was not confined to the sick room. This change in 
public sentiment led to courses for the training of people who should 
understand how to feed both the well and the sick, the child and the 
adult, and courses for the training of dietitians, as well as for lunch- 
room manager, were added to the curriculum, and the terms, "stand- 
ard diet" and "basal ration" came into general use. 

It was in the year 1912 that the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation gave proof of the development of the subject within its own 
ranks by the publication of The Syllabus of Home Economics. This 
syllabus represented the work of a committee for more than two years. 
Its purpose as stated in the syllabus is "to classify in logical order the 
various topics which can properly be included under the term, 'Home 
Economics.* " One proof of growth in the conception of the sub- 
ject is shown by the fact that a fourth division, household and in- 
stitution management, was added to the three original ones, food, cloth- 
ing, and shelter, showing the gain in appreciation of the social signifi- 
cance of the work. In connection with this idea of the social value of 
the work, one can offer as proof the specific work of the government for 



4 THE joiiRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

one class of people. While not officially connected with Home Eco- 
nomics, it is so closely allied with it as to warrant consideration. 

Reference is made to the questionnaire on Home and Woman sent 
out October, 1913, by Secretary Houston of the Department of Agricul- 
ture. The point of view of the Secretary is given in the following 
quotations : 

THE WOMAN ON THE FARM 

The woman on the farm is a most important economic factor in agriculture. 
Her domestic work undoubtedly has a direct bearing on the efficiency of the 
field workers, her handling of the home and its surroundings contributes to 
the cash intake, and, in addition, hers is largely the responsibihty for con- 
tributing the social and other features which make farm hfe satisfactory and 
pleasurable. On her rests largely the moral and mental development of the 
children, and on her attitude depends in great part the important question of 
whether the succeeding generation will continue to farm or will seek the allure- 
ments of life in the cities. 

HOME MANAGEMENT 

The department believes that intelligent help to women in matters of home 
management will contribute directly to the agricultural success of the farm. 
It purposes, therefore, to ask Congress for means and authority to make more 
complete studies of domestic conditions on the farm, to experiment with 
labor-saving devices and methods, and to study completely the question of 
practical sanitation and hygienic protection for the farm family. 

The farmer's wife rarely has access to the cities where labor-saving devices 
arc on competitive exhibit, nor does she often meet with other women who 
are tr\'ing these devices and gain from them first hand information. It seems 
important, therefore, that the department, cooperating with the proper 
state institutions, should be ready to give the farm home practical advice. 
Some work has already been accomplished in studying the problems of nutri- 
tion and advising the women in the country as to the economical use of va- 
rious foods and methods of using these foods to obtain variety in diet. Appar- 
ently there is need also for ad\nce on general diets that will be healthful and 
varied, because the farm home usually has but a limited number of foods at 
its disposal and has not the opportunity to add novelties to the diet, such as 
the city woman finds in her convenient store. 

Such a serious attempt on the part of the government to find out 
actual living conditions among farm women was most encouraging 
prcK)f of the fact that Home Kconomics was making for itself a large 
place in the thoughts of the people. 



1917] THE DEVELOPMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 5 

It was in this year, too, that the United States Government, through 
another great department, made a contribution to the work of Home 
Economics by its recognition of the claims of mother and child in 
the work of the Children's Bureau. 

The year 1914 affords substantial proof of the possibility and de- 
sirability of combining some phases of Home Economics with many 
forms of social work. Types of these combinations are visiting house- 
keepers, work with settlements, such as the connection made between 
Simmons College and the settlements of Boston, the housekeeping cen- 
ters of many cities, and the food work done in connection with the social 
welfare work of many manufacturing plants. Mention must be made, 
also, of the excellent work in Home Economics by the National Federa- 
tion of Women's Clubs under the skillful guidance of Miss Helen Louise 
Johnson. 

It was in this year, too, that additional proof of interest in and appre- 
ciation of the value of Home Economics was shown by another great 
branch of the government, the United States Bureau of Education, 
by the publication of a series of bulletins on Education for the Home. 
The reasons for such a publication are given in part by the following 
quotation: 

For most people the home is the beginning and end of life. All their 
activities proceed from it and return to it. Therefore, of all the arts those 
pertaining to homemaking are the most important and of all the sciences 
those which find their application in the home,, making us intelligent about 
the home and its needs, are the most significant. 

If the schools are to assist in making us intelligent about the life we Hve 
and the work we do, they. must provide liberally for instruction in these arts 
and sciences. Within the last two or three decades, educators and people 
generally have become conscious of this fact as never before, and gradually 
the schools are being readjusted to meet the new demands. Probably they 
have never undertaken a more important or difficult task, and there is con- 
stant need for information in regard to methods adopted and results obtained. 

Home Economics has official recognition for the first time in this year 
by taking its place beside Agriculture in the published list of the workers 
in "Agriculture and Home Economics" in the Department of Agricul- 
ture. The word, "extension," is written large in the records of this 
year, which find an appropriate climax in the passage of the Smith- 
Lever Act in May, 1914. 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The year 1915 stands quite alone as a banner year for Home F.iX)nomics 
because of the important legislation of the United States government 
concerning it. While the Smith-Lever Bill was signed by the President 
in May, 1914, the plans for its administration were not completed un- 
til 1915. This bill is distinguished, not only by the fact that it is the 
first specific legislation for the home by the Federal Government, but 
also by the magnitude of the resources it makes available. No single 
legislative act has brought to Home Economics either so great oppor- 
tunities or such serious obligations. 

The Smith-Lever Act makes provision for "cooperative agricultural 
extension work which shall consist of the giving of instruction and prac- 
tical demonstrations in Agriculture and Home Economics to persons 
not attending nor resident in the agricultural college." In the plans 
for the administration of this bill, the States Relations Service was organ- 
ized under the leadership of that friend of Home Economics, Dr. A. C. 
True, who has for so many years aided in the development of the sub- 
ject through the pubUcations of the Ofiice of Experiment Stations, and 
as a member of the committee on nomenclature of the American Home 
Economics Association. The scope of the work previously included in 
nutrition investigations was extended to include studies of clothing, 
household equipment, and household labor, thus constituting the Ofiice 
of Home Economics under the able guidance of Dr. C. F. Lang\vorthy, 
for a long time identified with work in Home Economics. 

This year was further signalized by another very important event in 
another department of the United States government, viz., the Bureau 
of Education, by the appointment of two speciaUsts in Home Economics, 
Mrs. Henrietta Calvin and Miss Carrie M. Lyford. 

There is yet a third feature of legislation, which, while it has not ma- 
teriahzcd, is significant of the trend of the times. This idea found 
expression in the Smith-Hughes Bill of the last two Congresses. "This 
bill would provide Federal aid to cooperate with the various states in 
the maintenance and support of vocational schools of Agriculture and 
Home Economics and the trades and industries for persons fourteen 
years of age and over, and in the maintenance and support of schools 
for training teachers for the vocational subjects in these vocational 
schools." The vocational .school seems at present the phase most in 
the public eye. What can Home Economics do for it? What will 
it do for Home Economics? Both questions are as yet unanswered. 
To some it scorns certain that the vocational school will revise very 



1917] THE DEVELOPMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS 7 

greatly the methods of teaching Home Economics. To others there 
seems some danger that Home Economics in the vocational school shall 
be judged solely by its power to produce commercial products. 

Yet another bill is indicative of the thoughts of some of the people 
and their desire to promote research in Home Economics. This is 
known as the Smoot Bill, which would provide Federal aid for research 
or experimentation in Home Economics at the Experiment Stations of 
the Land Grant Colleges. 

If the Journal may be taken as an index of the spirit and achievements 
of the work of Home Economics, it would appear that the art side has 
not been in the public mind as much as the other phases of the work. 
That condition might be explained on the old theory that the neces- 
sities of life, such as food, clothing, and shelter, must be met first, but 
surely the newer conception of life recognizes that beauty is an essen- 
tial factor of all right living, and imposes upon every individual the re- 
sponsibility to make some contribution to the beauty of life. 

Thus it appears that in the past five years Home Economics has done 
much intensive work in classifying and arranging its material, in sepa- 
rating essentials from non-essentials, in improving the methods of pre- 
sentation, and in interpreting the aim and scope of its work. It has been 
interested in the home, the school, and that larger field outside the 
home. It has done much to improve child Hfe, both through its own 
agencies and in connection with other agencies. It has been found 
useful by the social worker, the teacher, the philanthropist, and the 
statesman. It has influenced the private home, the public press, and 
legislation. It has lived up to its motto, "For those interested in Home- 
making, Institution Management, and Educational Work in Home 
Economics." May it go forward and deeper with a brave heart. 



8 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

FINANCING THE HOME DEMONSTRATION WURK> 

D. W. WORKING 

Agriculturist, United States Department of Agriculture 

With a man's lack of imagination, I am thinking of the home demon- 
stration work somewhat as I have learned to think of the demonstration 
work which the county agricultural agents are doing. Most of my 
experience with the activities of these men has been in the Western 
States. However, as I have seen them at work in both New York and 
Massachusetts, and have been closely associated with the administration 
of the county demonstration work during the past four years, I may 
venture to assume a reasonable familiarity with the county agent move- 
ment as it has been developing in the North and West. 

What is the idea beneath the movement of which the county agri- 
cultural agent is the expression? What is the motive behind his work? 
What is the method by which he has been able in the short period of 
four years to establish himself as a necessary institution in more than 
four hundred counties in the North and West? 

You know the idea; but you will let me state it in my own words 
as an aid to our present thinking. The idea includes a man trained in 
agriculture, and with the demonstrating gift, stationed permanently in 
that universal American governmental unit, the county, as the public 
leader and teacher of the economics of agriculture. The idea includes 
more than this; but, at bottom, it is to make the business of the indi- 
vidual farmer more profitable; to bring individual farmers into asso- 
ciated groups in order that they may work together to help each other 
to make their business more efficient. Of course this means study and 
cooperation on the part of farmers. Because we have learned that the 
mature man already established in business can not be taught by the 
ordinary methods of the schools, it means that the farmer must be 
taught by the demonstration method — that is, that an idea and a plan 
shall be set forth so clearly that the farmer will be induced to believe 
in the soundness of the idea and in the workability of the plan on his 
farm under his circumstances — to believe it so firmly as to be willing 
to do the work throughout a season, or a year, or more than a year in 
order to make the demonstration complete. For, let us clearly under- 

' Presented at the Ninth /\nnu&] Meeting of the American Home Economics A&sociition, 
Ithaca. 1916. 



1917] FINANCING THE HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 9 

stand that the new sort of demonstration is not a demonstration until 
the demonstrator-teacher has convinced the demonstrator-farmer by the 
latter's actual experience that the idea is sound and that the plan has 
worked in the particular place for which it was recommended. The 
farmer may think the idea is sound and that the plan fits when it is 
presented to him. but he does not know that these things are so until 
he has tested his own understanding of them through demonstration 
on his own farm. 

I have indicated that the motive in this work is that of profit— a 
more efficient and therefore a more profitable agriculture. I need not 
discuss the methods by which the county agent wins his farmers into 
active cooperation in demonstration work; for I have purposed merely 
to indicate the idea underlying the movement for demonstration work 
in agriculture in order to carry it across into the field of home economics; 
then to suggest a certain line of thinking in regard to home economics 
demonstration work, and to indicate a method of financing the workers 
who shall be to the women of the farms what the county agents are to 
the men of the farms. 

It seems certain that we are to have in home economics a group of 
women workers comparable to the county agricultural agents. It is, 
therefore, pertinent to ask how they shall be supported in their work. 
If they are to work to good advantage, they will need to be well sup- 
ported. We have seen a good many mistakes in the course of our 
experience with demonstration work. It has been easy in many cases 
to start the work on promises of private support. Commercial organi- 
zations of various kinds have been quick to recognize the value of the 
movement and to provide funds to establish county agriculturists within 
the fields of their activities. But at the outset few of them looked far 
enough into the future to realize that a public service is not really estab- 
lished until it is established fairly and frankly on a foundation of pubhc 
support. Organizations of farmers were almost as prompt to offer their 
support when they realized the meaning of the work. Both classes of 
organizations found that it was much more difficult to provide funds 
than to promise them; they often found themselves less willing to prom- 
ise financial support for the second year than for the first. 

Probably the one sufficient reason for the difficulty of supporting 
county agent work on private contributions from commercial and other 
organizations and individuals had its roots in the fact that the work 
is fimdamentally a public service and ought therefore to be established 



10 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

frankly on a firm basis of public support. In most cases tht county 
agents from the first were supported in part on public funds contributed 
by the United States Department of Agriculture. We used to say to 
chambers of commerce and similar organizations that we were able to 
promise a certain sum — say $1200 a year — for the support of a county 
agent if the remainder of the fund needed to finance the work could be 
otherwise provided. In many cases the county government was immedi- 
ately prevailed upon to provide an appropriation to match the amount 
we offered; in other cases the chamber of commerce promised to pro- 
vide all or a portion of the fund needed. In these and other ways the 
work got started, but in nearly all cases with a definite assurance that 
approximately half of the necessary money would come from the public 
purse, national or county or both. Soon the agricultural colleges became 
aware of the fact that they needed to be in the work. In my own early 
personal experience I found the colleges willing to contribute to the cost 
of supervision; later to help in paying the salary of the demonstrator; 
and now they are almost unanimous in the belief that the county agent 
work belongs to the agricultural college as a part of the machinery 
for doing its work. The colleges have also recognized the fact that the 
work seems to be most successful when it has a considerable local con- 
tribution for its financial support and management. In other words, 
the college men have learned or are learning what we of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture are learning, namely, that the professional agri- 
culturist can accomplish much more for the increase of agricultural 
knowledge and the improvement of agricultural practices when he 
works in frank cooperation with farmers than when he merely works 
for them. 

While the county agent work was getting established throughout the 
North and West and while the Department of Agriculture was learning 
that more could be accomplished by working with individual farmers 
than by any method previously used, the Smith-Lever Act was passed; 
and under its provisions we suddenly found ourselves compelled by 
law, and a liberal increasing appropriation, to work in partnership— that 
is, cooperative agricultural extension work was actually thrust upon 
the colleges and the Department of Agriculture. And now we are 
realizing with new force and a deeper insight that this cooperative 
agricultural extension work includes home economics. Wc ought to 
have understood from the beginning. Thus the problem now is how 
to accompli.sh the entire task a.ssigncd to us by Congress and the state 



1917] FINANCING THE HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 11 

legislatures, not merely half of it. It is proper, therefore, for a man to 
suggest to workers in home economics that it may be worth while to 
consider the advisability of adopting at the beginning of your woman 
county agent work the best method we have been able to develop in 
financing demonstration work through men county agents. 

Of course, with the experience of many women's organizations for 
your background, you may find it better to organize a women's home 
economics bureau with a membership fee, and with plans for soliciting 
additional funds to support the County Home Demonstration Agent. 
Some one may be ambitious to propose a Home Economics Tag Day. 
My personal ambition is to see the home economics demonstration work 
established on a basis of definite public support; otherwise people will 
be asking the meaning of home economics, and following their first 
question by asking if it is good policy to build an economic structure 
on a non-economic foundation. 

For reasons which need not be discussed at this time, much of the 
work being done for women and by women has been conducted on a 
non-economic basis. You need not be told how groups of women have 
organized "sales" to raise funds for certain worthy purposes and have 
been wonderfully successful in selling articles of doubtful utility for high 
prices to kind-hearted or gullible men. I suspect that some of you 
could be induced to believe that women are discriminated against by 
employers; that they receive less pay for a given amount of work than 
men; and that the tendency is to vote an appropriation to support work 
intended to benefit men and to pass the hat or get up an entertainment 
to secure money to half-support work intended to benefit women. If 
there has been such a tendency we are getting away from it. That the 
work of the women home demonstration agents is as fairly entitled to 
adequate public support as that of the men demonstration agents is a 
fact that the public mind is ready to accept. Indeed, as most of you 
know, a number of county home demonstrators are already being sup- 
ported by funds arising under the provisions of the Smith-Lever Act, 
the direct appropriation to the United States Department of Agriculture 
for demonstration work, and county appropriations. 

It seems that we might well agree that the experience of those who 
have organized and are conducting the demonstration work being 
carried on chiefly by the county agricultural agents has been sufl5cient 
to justify us in believing that the home demonstration work can and 
should be frankly and adequately supported from the very beginning 



12 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

as a public service and out of public funds. The work tha<^ has been 
done already points to a repetition of the success of the county agent 
work, which seems to be more than justifying the expenditure of the 
public funds thus far used. It is a wise use of public resources to pro- 
mote economic eflSciency on the farms through the activities of trained 
men teaching fanners by demonstration methods the most approved 
farm and business practices — such practices as result in greater net 
gains to individual farmers and the production of increased wealth for 
the entire country. If we are able, as we are, to justify the expenditure 
of millions in order to increase economic eflficiency on the farms of the 
United States, can we doubt that it will soon be possible to show that 
it is also the policy of wisdom to provide other millions in order to increase 
the economic efficiency of the millions of workers in American farm 
homes? 

A considerable share of the funds arising under the Smith-Lever Act 
is now being used in home economics extension work; most of this, 
however, is in support of workers who extend their activities over 
entire states. Of course, this is an effective way to do extension teach- 
ing; but it seems to be less effective than that of equally capable teachers 
who work within the limits of restricted areas. The county seems to be 
a large enough unit for intensive demonstration work. The county 
home demonstration agent is able to get acquainted and to maintain 
an acquaintance. Within a county the demonstrator cstn plan her work 
with a reasonable expectation of being able to continue it until a definite 
advance has been made. We have had and still have too much touch- 
and-go in our extension methods. It is time that we should be planning 
defmitely to make our work continuous; time that we should develop 
systematic courses of instruction; time that it should be possible to 
recognize dcfmite progress in the advances made by those who are 
expected to be the beneficiaries of our extension teaching. The county 
agent seems to be about the only extension worker with a field small 
enough to make it probable that we may have this kind of continuing 
work with measurable progress. 

I am wondering if this Association might not do well to give its 
attention to this matter of effectiveness in cooperative extension work; 
if it might not be well for you to consider the advisability of expressing 
yourselves as favorable to definite organization in home economics 
extension teaching; if it might not be well for you to consider whether 
it is not time to make a declaration in favor of stressing the importance 



1917] FINANCING THE HOME DEMONSTRATION WORK 13 

of devoting special attention to county home demonstration work. 
Should it seem to you advisable to make special efforts to promote the 
development of county home demonstration teaching by means of 
trained workers in home economics, you can make effective use of the 
success of the county agent movement by advocating a similar move- 
ment and organization for the country women who ought to receive a 
fair share of the benefits intended by the Smith-Lever Act. 

As the problem of financing the home demonstration work presents 
itself in the light of the considerations already set forth or suggested, it 
seems that we are already at the beginning of a public service for rural 
women — a service authorized by the Smith-Lever Act. It seems also 
that the home demonstration work should be regarded as cooperative 
in the broadest way, both in fmancial support and in management. 
This would mean that the Federal Government, under the provisions 
of the Smith-Lever Act and acts making direct appropriations to the 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, should provide a portion of the funds; 
that the states, in supplementing the financial support provided by 
Congress and by other appropriations for extension teaching, should 
provide an equal share of the necessary money; and that counties also 
should contribute to the support of this work, just as many of them are 
now contributing to the support of county agent work. By allotments 
from their own funds, by providing the services of their specialists, by 
conducting investigational work, and by the sjinpathetic and intelligent 
administrative supervision of extension directors, and the direct leader- 
ship of State Home Demonstration Agents cooperating with the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, the agricultural colleges can give this work 
a unity of motive and method, while local farm bureaus and associa- 
tions of farm women servje to keep the work responsive to the immediate 
need of the country homes that should receive the benefits of this great 
public service furnished by County, State, and Nation. 



14 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

THE NEW FEEDING IN THE TREATMENT OF TYPHOID 

FEVER 

ALICE CLORINDA WALTON 
Formerly Dietitian Albany Hospital, Albany, N. Y. 

Looking into the records of febrile diseases, we see that one of the 
prominent questions has been "Shall we feed fever patients, and if so, 
what foods shall we use?" In fevers, toxic products act upon the hun- 
ger centers of the brain, causing loss of appetite. For two thousand 
years, empiricism controlled the diet given. If a patient did not want 
food it must be that he should not eat: and this treatment was con- 
tinued long after the patient desired food, though no one explained the 
inconsistency. 

Of all febrile diseases, typhoid fever most commands the attention of 
the nutrition ex-pert today. When we examine the statistics of the 
last decade we find that typhoid stands fourth in the list of mortality 
diseases, having an average of 10 per cent. In 1910 there were 2500 
deaths, representing 250,000 cases, in the United States alone. This 
disease attacks the individual during the period of greatest economic 
value to the community. The loss has been estimated to reach not 
less than $100,000,000 annually. ^ 

Since this disease is curable these figures strongly indicate that the 
former treatment was inadequate. Diet has always been considered an 
important factor in the treatment of typhoid, but diet has been revolu- 
tionized in the past ten or twelve years. Formerly the patient lost 
much body weight, and took long to recover it during convalescence. 

Extended clinical studies of diet in tj^Dhoid fever were carried on by 
American and European investigators which yielded very important 
results with reference to liberal feeding. Of important work, that of 
Shattuck reported in 1897 particularly deserves mention because of 
its influence with respect to modifying earlier practice. A summary 
of this earlier work will be found in Nichols' paper on the subject.* 

Following the clinical studies came laboratory research, in which 
American physicians were pioneers. Dr. Coleman and associates, 
Bellevuc Hospital, New York, by their respiration calorimeter e.xpcri- 

• Roscnau, Milton J., Preventive Medicine and Hygiene. New York: D. D. .\ppleton 
and Co., 1913. 

* Nichols. John B., Diet in typhoid fever. Providence, 1907, Snow & Farnham Co^ 
92 p. Fish Fund Prize Diss. No. 50. 



1917] NEW FEEDING IN TYPHOID FEVER 15 

ments justified the belief, based on clinical evidence, in a high calorie 
diet in feeding typhoid patients. They were able to show that even 
the highest of the previous diets (allowing 2000 calories per day) was 
decidedly inadequate. Yet the diet used for years supplied only 300 
calories per day! 

Not much could be done towards changing this until metabohsm in 
fever was studied in greater detail. It had always been thought that 
the digestive power was greatly impaired during fever — proved, again, 
by the patient's loss of appetite. In the latter part of the nineteenth 
century, some investigators' came to the conclusion that the higher 
valued diets reduced febrile loss but did not prevent it. Doctors 
ShafTer and Coleman* undertook to re-investigate this, by feeding 25 
patients on food^ containing a moderate amount of protein and larger 
amounts of fat and carbohydrates than had hitherto been given. "The 
most striking result found was the possibility, in all cases, of reducing to 
a minimum the nitrogen loss, due to breaking down of body tissue. The 
amount of food required to do this was very large indeed — comparable 
only to that taken by, for instance, lumbermen in the north woods — 
and was greater than the amount needed to cover the excess heat pro- 
duction in the body." 

In 1912 Dr. DuBois published the results of some six of the highly* 
fed patients of Dr. Coleman. He says that typhoid patients, through- 
out the disease, can absorb carbohydrate and protein as well as normal 
individuals. They can absorb fat in very large amounts, but the 
per cent of absorption is somewhat lower than usual, especially in the 
first part of the disease. 

Later, the two doctors reported on respiratory exchange experiments,' 
to determine the influence of the high calorie diet upon metabohsm in 
t>'phoid fever. The results disproved one of the chief criticisms of the 
higher amount of food— that of the influence of food on increasing heat 
production. It is now proved that during the febrile period food does 

* Puritz, Von Keyden, and Klemperer. 

* Schafifer, P. A. and Coleman, \V., Protein metabolism in typhoid fever. Arch. Int. 
Med., 4 (1909), pp. 538h500. 

* Coleman, W., The high calory diet in typhoid fever; a study of one hundred and eleven 
cases, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 143 (1911), pp. 77-102. 

*Du Bois, E. F., The absorption of food in typhoid fever. Med. and Surg. Rep. Pres- 
byterian Hosp., N. Y., 9 (1912), pp. 175-189, 2 ch. 

' Coleman, W. and Du Bois, E. P., The influence of high-calory diet on the respiratory 
exchanges in typhoid fever. Arch. Int. Med., 14 (1914), pp. 168-209. 



16 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

not in itself stimulate metabolism. They also found that the patients 
could store body fat even in the time of high temperature. 

Up to the present time no one, having given the high calorie diet a 
fair trial, has rejected its use for all after patients. For instance, at 
Mt. Sinai Hospital, Dr. Crohn^ administered this diet to a large number 
of patients. He found the food readily taken, distention rare, an ab- 
sence of the usual emaciation, and a shortened convalescent period. 
Doctors Kerley,' and LaFetra and Schroeder^" followed the idea in the 
case of children. They were able to maintain body weight, to increase 
the comfort of the patient, and to lessen the dangers of the disease. 

Let us now consider the diet itself. Doctors Shaffer and Coleman 
calculated* that the minimum daily food requirement should be 40 
calories per kilogram of body weight per day, that is, 3000 calories 
for a patient weighing 70 kilograms or 150 pounds. When this was 
used, the patient lost nitrogen showing that body protein was not spared. 
To estabUsh nitrogen equilibrium, 60 to 80 calories per kilo were needed. 
But here, as elsewhere, the optimum amount of food can only be de- 
termined by the needs of the individual patient. 

It is well knowTi that protein food should not be given, in health, in 
amounts larger than are necessary to build up or maintain body tissue. 
Similar conclusions are now drawn in the case of typhoid, although 
more protein is broken down per day. The above experiments indicated 
that from 60 to 90 grams of protein per day were found to give the best 
results. 

The fat needs of the patient vary with the stage of the disease and 
with the individual. Most patients can take more fat during the third 
and fourth weeks of the febrile period, and during convalescence, than 
they can earlier in the disease. Frequently one half of the total fuel 
value of the food can be given in the form of fat. 

Carbohydrate food plays a most important part in preventing con- 
sumption of body tissue in fever. This food frequently contributed 
from 30 to 60 calories per kilogram per day. 



•Crohn, B. B., P^xpcricnccs with the Colcman-Schadler diet in typhoid fcvcf. Jour. 
Amcr. Med. Assoc., .S8 (1912), pp. 259 264. 

• Kcrlcy, C G., The dietetic and general management of typhoid fever in children. 
Amcr. Jour. Med. S«:i., 14.? (1912), pp. 318 352. 

••La F'elra, L. K. and Schrocdcr, L. C, Kxi)criences with the high-calory diet in 
typhoid fever of infint-i and young children Amcr. Jour. Diseases Children, 9 (1915), pp. 
387-404. 



1917] NEW FEEDING IN TYPHOID FEVER 17 

The selection of the food must be governed by three important con- 
siderations. The food must be easily digested, free from harmful 
residue, and high in calorie value. When we say protein, meat is prob- 
ably the first food stuff to come to mind. But meat is likely to make an 
excess of protein in the diet causing rather serious metabolic disturbances, 
and putrefaction of meat in the intestines may give rise to digestive 
disorders, and irritate the kidneys. Meat extracts, although they 
may serve to stimulate appetite, furnish Httle food, and the extractives 
they contain may prove toxic. Dr. Coleman concludes that meats, not 
a necessary source of protein, should be excluded from the diet. Gela- 
tine is especially good if given with sufficient carbohydrate. 

Egg whites have long been used, but the value of the whole egg has 
been overlooked. They are easily digested and the patients may take 
from four to six a day without difficulty. 

Milk is an important, but not an essential, part of the diet. Many 
patients think they cannot take milk. Van Noorden claims that this 
is "purely imaginative." There is undoubtedly a limit to the amount 
of milk that can be digested, depending, of course, upon the individual. 
As a rule from 1^ to 2 quarts a day are well borne. 

The most suitable forms of fat are cream, butter, and egg yolk. Fat 
has a tendency to cause nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea if given in excess. 
Again, the individual must be catered to. 

Of the carbohydrates we consider only starches and sugars. The 
starch foods chosen should be easily digested, free from cellulose, and 
low in water cpntent. Bulk is the chief objection. Toast, cereals 
(strained), rice, baked and mashed potatoes are the best to use. Cane 
sugar soon palls upon the taste, and may ferment readily. Glucose 
alone palls also, but may be used as an alternative. Lactose or milk 
sugar seems to be the most suitable to use in large amounts. From 
100 to 150 grams may be given without producing glycosuria. 

Fruits, especially the juice of oranges and lemons and apple pulp, 
show no ill effects. If the patient suffers from diarrhea even these 
should be given with greatest caution. 

With all this to work from, what kind of menu may be planned? 
As yet comparatively little has been done in working out cooked dishes, 
although Miss Cutler, at Bellevue, worked out recipes for custards, 
junkets, and cocoa, using the maximum amount of lactose that can be 
taken without spoiling the taste. For example, in a glass of lemonade 
using the juice of one lemon, three quarters of a glass of lactose can be 



Ig THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

used, by making it into a syrup with the water. This beverage gives 
450 calories. The ordinary glass yields only 137. Tea, coffee, milk and 
cream are also good carriers of lactose. Occasionally the dish needs to 
be sweetened or flavored with cane sugar before the patient likes the 
taste. Any number of gelatine dishes could be made with either glucose 
or lactose, fruit juice or milk. This is where the dietitian or nurse must 
aid the physician. 

There are times when the patient finds it hard to take as much food 
as has been suggested, but usually he will cooperate readily when told 
that, on the whole, the more he eats the sooner he will recover. Fre- 
quently food to the value of 6000 calories was taken without forcing. 
Dr. Coleman's patients are urged to ask for food whenever they feel 
they can cat it. The food was usually administered at frequent inter- 
vals from six to eight times a day. The liigher caloric standard is 
not reached at once. The patient's individual requirement must be 
found, and his previous diet may have caused disturbances that need 
correcting. Consequently a liquid diet — milk, cream, and lactose — is 
used, being gradually increased. 

In conclusion we may say that the high calorie diet is a very great 
stride towards the better treatment of not only typhoid, but probably 
of all fevers. The few criticisms come from those who have not tried 
the diet, and, on the whole, these have been refuted. The advantages 
seem to be many. The patients are contented, almost free from 
delirium, and not more liable to relapse. Abdominal distention and 
diarrhea, which were considered symptoms of the disease, have ceased. 
Body weight is either maintained or loss is recovered before the patient 
leaves the hospital. The long slow convalescence has apparently dis- 
appeared. 

We have here, then, a wonderfully conclusive study, carried on in a 
comparatively short space of time, and a study of the greatest benefit to 
mankind. 



191 7J KEW DIETETIC TREATMENT OF DIABETES MELLITUS 19 

THE NEW DIETETIC TREATMENT OF DIABETES MELLITUS^ 

LENNA F. COOPER 
Dietitian, Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Michigan 

Diabetes mellitus is a disease about which volumes have been writ- 
ten, but about which comparatively little is definitely known. Neither 
time nor money has been spared in investigating this rapidly encroach- 
ing disease, and as a result of recent research, light is beginning to shine, 
though there are many problems connected with it that are still baffling. 
Even the cause has not been certainly established, though a relation- 
ship between the pancreas and diabetes has long been suspected, and 
it is now quite generally conceded that diabetes is due to a "deficiency 
of the internal secretion of the pancreas." Whether this deficiency is 
due to a morphological change or to a functional derangement no one is 
prepared to say, but there are strong probabiHties that it may be either 
one or both. 

The symptoms of diabetes are quite marked. Those which most 
directly interest the dietitian are glycosuria, hyperglycemia, and acid- 
osis. There has been much speculation as to the cause of the non-utili- 
zation of sugar in the diabetic organism. 

Just how this failure on the part of the body to burn carbohydrates 
is brought about no one can say. There are several hypotheses. Allen 
beUeves that in the norpial individual the cells have the ability to bind 
food substances and that in abnormal cases there is a failure to accom- 
plish the said union; the failure being due to a lack or deficiency of the 
internal secretion of the pancreas. This subject will be considered 
further under "acidosis." 

Closely cormected with the glycosuria is that of h3^erglycemia or the 
excess of sugar in the blood. Normal blood contains on the average 
about 0.1 of 1 per cent glucose. In diabetes the quantity may be in- 
creased several times that of the normal. It is possible to have a hyper- 
glycemia without glycosuria, hence the hyperglycemia becomes an- 
other means of diagnosis. 

The ratio between the nitrogen and glucose excreted when the patient 
is on a fat-protein diet, known as the D : N ratio is considered by Lusk 
and others as an index of the severity of the disease. A ratio of 3.65 to 
1 is usually fatal, though a still higher ratio has recently been reported. 

* Part of the address presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home 
Economics Association, Ithaca, N. Y., 1916. 



20 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

For many years the all important s>Tnptom in diabetes t'^ clinicians 
was glycosuria, but more recently attention has been turned to aceto- 
nuria, (the excretion of acetone bodies) or as it is commonly called, 
acidosis. Many now consider this a much graver sjrmptom than the 
glycosuria. There is much evidence to show that these bodies are the 
result of imperfect oxidation of the fats and proteins, particularly the 
fats. But it has also been observed that "fats burn only in the fires of 
the carbohydrates," that even normal subjects can be made to excrete 
acetone bodies when fasting or when insufficient carbohydrate occurs in 
the diet. There has been much speculation as to the cause of this 
failure to burn fats, but Ringer has worked out what seems to be a very 
plausible hypothesis, and he attributes both glycosuria and acetonuria 
to a failure on the part of the body to form the "glucoside union." 

Woodyatt believes that obese people, whether normal or diabetic, are 
very prone to acidosis particularly during fasting because of the burn- 
ing of large quantities of body fat. Likewise very thin people, unless 
totally glycosuric, burn body protein with a corresponding amount of 
glucose and do not develop a high acidosis. 

The dietetic treatment of diabetes has passed through several stages. 
Allen reviews it briefly as follows : 

The history of diabetic therapy, so far as it is significant or valuable, con- 
sists merely in an inter weaving or alternation of two principles. One is re- 
striction of the sugar-yielding elements of the diet, namely, carbohydrate 
and protein. The other is diminution of the total caloric value of the diet. 
The latter is the older. Willis reported benefit from a diet limited to milk 
and barley-water cooked with bread. There have been milk and vegetable 
cures since then; but whereas the authors aimed at a nontoxic diet, what 
they really achieved was under nutrition. Then came Rollo with his notion 
of animal food to strengthen digestion, and thus the benefit of carbohydrate 
restriction was accidentally discovered. The harmfulness of excessive protein - 
fat diet was soon recognized and Bouchardat, Canlani, and Naunyn intro- 
duced fast-days and lower diet. Then came the ritual of Van Noorden's 
oat cure and the widespread ideas concerning special properties in oatmeal, 
which ought not to have gained credence among those acquainted with tlie 
literature of previous carbohydrate and vegetable diet. Blum broke the 
spell by having the courage to declare that oatmeal is like any other form of 
starch; and then straightway others made the test, and it became established 
that there is no special virtue of any kind in oatmeal. The oat cure gave 
patients a few days' rest from protein-fat excess by substituting carbohydrate 
excess. Its advocates claimed that it avoided tlic under nutrition character- 



1917] NEW DIETETIC TREATMENT OF DIABETES MELLITUS 21 

istic of Other carbohydrate cures, by making up a diet adequate in protein 
and calories on the oat days; but the under nutrition was present in the fast 
days or vegetable days preceding and following the "cure," and therein lay 
the principal benefit. The oat cure merely shows that a large proportion of 
diabetics still manifest a surprisingly high carbohydrate tolerance when con- 
ditions are not too unfavorable. It is a failure in genuinely severe cases. 

The fasting treatment is also an extreme modification of the older 
method of diminishing the caloric value of the diet. Guelpa, of Paris, 
in 1910 read a paper before the British Medical Association, recom- 
mending fasting purgation as a remedy for diabetes. This method re- 
ceived much more attention in France than in England. In America, 
Dr. Allen of the Rockefeller Institute has done more than any other 
one person in not only calling attention to this remedy but in demon- 
strating the reasons for its efficacy. In other words. Dr. Allen has 
placed the method upon a scientific basis. Before attempting to apply 
the method to human subjects he studied the condition in experimental 
diabetes in dogs made glycosuric by the removal of large portions of the 
pancreas. He found that when these animals were fasted until sugar 
free and then kept on a low caloric diet they lived and thrived, but 
that when he attempted to fatten them, they invariably died. In severe 
cases (eight-ninths or more of the pancreas removed) he found it neces- 
sary to fast the dogs for several weeks before they became sugar free. 

In applying these principles to human diabetics. Dr. Allen obtained 
similar results. He found that by fasting the patient until sugar free 
for at least twenty-four hours, that he could then feed them upon a 
gradually increasing diet and keep the patient free from glycosuria. 
Usually two or three days are sufficient to render the subject free from 
sugar, but sometimes eight or ten days are necessary. Dr. Allen does 
not hesitate to recommend the long fast even to greatly emaciated 
patients unless it is accompanied by nausea and vomiting, in which 
case it seems advisable to give a very restricted diet for a week or so, 
then give another fast which is usually sufficient to clear up the sugar. 
Other physicians believe they get better results by breaking the initial 
fast after about the third day and repeating it again in a short time. 
The first and most important step is to render the patient sugar free 
and this is accomplished by fasting. This gives the weakened functions 
a rest. After a few days, very severe cases show an ability to utilize 
some carbohydrate as is shown by a rise in the respiratory quotient, 
indicating the utilization of metabolic sugar. During the fast, the 



22 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

patient is urged to drink freely. He may also be given a cup of black 
cofTee and a cup of tea each day, also a clear broth and whiskey in small 
amounts, though none of these are necessary. From a psychological 
standpoint it is usually advisable to give something, otherwise the fam- 
ily, if not the patient, himself, becomes somewhat alarmed. For this 
reason, the fasting diet is sometimes called a "liquid diet." To this 
diet the addition of an agar-agar jelly is also valuable, not only because 
the patient feels that he is getting "something" but because it also adds 
bulk. 

The second important step is to establish the tolerance, not only for 
carbohydrate but for protein and fat as well. Remembering that about 
50 per cent of the protein is converted into glucose and that acetone 
products may be formed from the remainder of it, it at once becomes 
apparent that protein must also be restricted. Usually not more than 
50 to 70 grams are allowed. 

Since fats are prone to produce acidosis, and much more so in some 
cases than in others, the taking of fats may also have to be restricted. 
It is at once apparent that the caloric intake must necessarily be low. 
Usually after the patient burns up his excess body fat, the acidosis de- 
creases and the fats may be somewhat increased, but the patient must be 
made to understand that for a long time at least, he must remain on 
a low caloric basis. While in an institution, the patient should rarely 
exceed 2000 calories. Overfeeding, even with fats, will not only cause 
a reappearance of sugar, but acidosis as well, and the condition may 
even be worse than before beginning the treatment. 

The tolerance is usually established first for carbohydrate, then for 
protein, and lastly for fat. Allen states that fat should never be given 
first. For the sake of simplifying the work of both physician and 
dietitian, some institutions have formulated dietaries witli gradually 
increasing amounts of food constituents. Dr. Hamburger and Miss 
Perry, dietitian, at Cook County Hospital, have worked out a very 
efficient system. Two schedules are in use at the Battle Creek 
Sanitarium, one for mild cases, the other for more severe ones. 
Schedule 1 for mild cases is so arranged that the carbohydrate in- 
creases 0.5 calorie per pound of body weight until 2 calories are 
given. Then it increases 0.1 caloric until 3 calories are reached; after 
that 0.2 calorie per pound is added. The fat is likewise increased by 
ratio. In mild cases a reduction of carbohydrate may be all that is 
necessary to render the patient sugar free, but for fear of acidosis dux- 



1917] ICEW DIETETIC TREATMENT OF DIABETES MELLITUS 23 

ing the semi-fasting and in order to cut down the total calories, the fat 
is also reduced to a very small amount and then gradually added. 

In severe cases the additions must be made much more slowly. It 
must also be remembered that no schedule will fit all cases, and that 
each patient must receive individual daily attention from both doctor 
and dietitian. The reappearance of even a small quantity of sugar 
is the signal for at least a twenty-four hour fast or until the patient 
is sugar free. When feeding is resumed, the carbohydrate is materially 
lessened, usually to one-half of the amount which produced the sugar 
and from this point added more slowly than in the former feeding. 
When the protein is kept low an increase in the ammonia output usually 
means an increased acidosis due to too much fat. 

A weekly fast or semi-fast is recommended as a routine measure for 
the sake of sparing the weakened functions. 

A third important step is the after care of the patient. Since he 
usually returns home after a few weeks' stay at the hospital or sani- 
tarium, his care will depend upon himself or members of his family. 
While he is in the hospital, one of the most important things that can 
be done for him is to instruct him in both the preparation of his food 
and in the testing for urinary sugar. If the case is a severe one, he 
should make daily tests for sugar, but if less severe, once a week. He 
should also be taught, if possible by laboratory method, the preparation 
of diabetic dishes. One of the most interesting classes in cookery at the 
Battle Creek Sanitarium is a class of about twenty-five diabetic patients 
who meet twice weekly for instruction and practice in this special cook- 
ery. It is surprising how much they learn in a few weeks' time about 
calories and food constituents. It is also important that they should 
have some printed instructions to carry home with them. This is 
especially important if the patient is a man and must depend upon 
someone else to prepare his food. Miss Eckman, dietitian at the 
Massachusetts General Hospital, has prepared a set of menus with 
caloric, protein, fat, and carbohydrate values. 

In summarizing, Hill and Sherrick of Boston say that the two most 
important things to remember in this treatment are the following: 

First, do not raise the diet too quickly after starvation, and pay just as 
much attention to the protein intake as to carbohydrate; second, do not worry 
if the patient loses weight: it will not hurt him. 

Dr. Joslin, of Boston, issues the following card of instructions to 
patients and, in addition to those given here, a list of vegetables, fruits. 



24 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

and nuts in terms of 5, 10, 15, 20 and 40 per cent carbohydrate, also 
the caloric value of some miscellaneous foods. 

Fasting. Fast until sugar-free. Drink water freely and one cup of tea and 
one cup of cofTee if desired. If sugar persists after two days of fasting, add 
in divided portions 300 cc. of clear meat broth. 

Alcohol. If acidosis (diacetic acid) is present, take 0.5 cc. alcohol per kilo- 
gram body weight until acidosis disappears. Alcohol is best given in small 
doses every three hours. 

Carbohydrate tolerance. When the twenty-four hour urine is sugar-free, 
add 150 grams of 5 per cent vegetables, and continue to add 5 grams carbo- 
hydrate daily up to 20 grams, and then 5 grams every other day, passing suc- 
cessively upward through the 5, 10 and 15 per cent vegetables, 5 and 10 per 
cent fruits, potato and oatmeal to bread, unless sugar appears or the tolerance 
reaches 3 grams carbohydrate per kilogram body weight. 

Protein tolerance. When the urine has been sugar free for two days, add 
20 grams protein (three eggs) and thereafter 15 grams protein daily in the 
form of meat until tlie patient is receiving 1 gram protein per kilogram body 
weight, or, if the carbohydrate tolerance is zero, only 0.75 gram per kilogram 
body weight. Later, if desired, the protein may be raised to 1.5 gram per 
kilogram body weight. 

Fat tolerance. While testing the protein tolerance a small quantity of fat 
is included in the eggs and meat given. Add no more fat until the protein 
reaches 1 gram per kilogram (unless the protein tolerance is below this figure) 
but then add 25 grams fat daily until the patient ceases to lose weight or re- 
ceives not over 40 calories per kilogram body weight. 

Reappearance of sugar. The return of sugar demands fasting for twenty- 
four hours, or until sugar free. The diet preceding the reappearance of sugar 
is then resumed except that the carljohydrate should not receive half the 
former tolerance until the urine has been sugar free for two weeks, and it 
should not then be increased more than 5 grams per week. 

Weekly fast days. Whenever the tolerance is less than 20 grams carbohy 
drate, fasting should be practiced one day in seven; when the tolerance is be- 
tween 20 and 50 grams carbohydrate, 5 per cent vegetables and one-half the 
usual quantity of protein and fat arc allowed upon the fast day; when the 
tolerance is between 50 and 100 grams CHO the 10 per cent and 15 per cent 
vegetables arc added as well. If the tolerance is more than 100 grams carbo- 
hydrate, upon the weekly fast day the carl>ohydratc should be halved. 

In addition to the regulation of the diet, physicians are finding exer- 
cise a valuable adjunct to the treatment. I'ratt and Spooncr a few 
years ago found that diabetic dogs having a tolerance for 125 grams of 



1917] NEW DIETETIC TREATMENT OF DIABETES MELLITUS 25 

glucose when kept in a cage, had an increased tolerance of 10 grams 
when left free to run about. Alien has also found that dogs utilizing 
only 100 grams of bread without exercise can be made to handle 200 
grams working in a treadmill. This principle is also made use of in 
treating people, but it must be borne in mind that it is a dangerous 
procedure when there is marked acidosis. Such a patient should be 
put to bed during the fast and kept quiet until the acidosis subsides. 
Then, vigorous exercise for short periods, the length of which may be 
gradually increased, undoubtedly increases the sugar consumption. 

The results of the above Hne of treatment have thus far proven very 
satisfactory. It is true that many physicians are apparently fearful 
of such heroic measures, but those who have followed it out consistently 
are very much pleased with it. Most of our large hospitals are now 
employing it. 

About 400 cases have been treated at the Battle Creek Sanitarium with 
very satisfactory results. Diabetes in children, a condition formerly 
considered absolutely hopeless, now yields quite rapidly to the regime. 
What the ultimate results will be of Hving on a low metaboHc plane, 
reaching perhaps over a period of several years duration, no one can 
foretell, but it has already been demonstrated that it prolongs life, 
renders the patient more comfortable, and increases the mental and 
physical efficiency to such an extent that most of them are able to con- 
tinue with their former avocations. Hence, it would seem that there 
is nothing to lose by the new method of treatment, but, to the contrary, 
there is much to gain. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Von Mering and Minkowski: Zenlralb.f. Inn. Med., 23 (1889), p. 303. 

Carlson and Drennan: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 28 (1912), p. 391; Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. &• 

Med., 11 (1914), p. 71. 
Drennan: Amer. Jour. Physiol., 47 (1913), p. 381. 
Carlson, Orr and Jones: Jour. Biol. Chem., 17 (1914), p. 19. 
Knowlton and Starling: Jour. Physiol., 45 (1912), p. 146. 
Patterson and Starling: Jour. Physiol., 47 (1913), pp. 137-148. 
Hall: Am. Jour. Physiol, 18 (1907), p. 283. 
Pratt and Spooner: Arch. Inter. Med., 7 (1911), p. 665. 
Ringer: Jour. Biol. Chem., 17 (1914), p. 107. 
Foster: The dietetic treatment of Diabetes mellitus. Amer. Jour. Med. Set., 141 (1911), pp. 

167-186. 
Foster: Diabetes mellitus. 

Joslin and Goodall: A diabetic chart. Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., 158 (1908), p. 248. 
MaeLeod: Diabetes: Its pathological physiology. (1913.) 



26 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

MacLeod: Recent work on the physiological pathology of glycosuria. Jow. Amer. Med. 

Assn., 62 (1914), pp. 1222-1230. 
Van Noordcn: Metab. and Pract. Med., vol. 5, pp. 527-645. 

Joslin: Carbohydrate utilization in diabetes. Arch. Intern. Med., 16 (1915), pp. 693-732. 
Joslin: Treatment and diagnosis in diabetes. Amer. Jour. Med. Set., Oct. 1915. 
Allen: (Diabetes). Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., 172 (1915), p. 241. 
Allen: Investigation and scientific phases of the diabetic question, 66 (1916), p. 1525. 
Allen: Glycosuria and diabetes. (1913) 
Allen: Concerning exercise in the treatment of severe diabetes. Boston Med. Surg. Jour., 

173 (1915), p. 743. 
Lusk: On the diabetic respiratory quotient. Arch. Intern. Med., 15 (1915), pp. 939-944. 
Myers and Bailey: The Lewis and Benedict method for the estimation of blood sugar with 

some observations obtained in disease. Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), no. 2, pp. 

147-161. 
Hamburger: The Allen treatment of diabetes. The Med. Clinics of Chicago, 1 (1916), p. 1051. 
Rusman: Mild diabetes in children. Am. Jour. Med. Sci., 151, (1916), p. 40. 
Christian: The starvation method versus gradual carbohydrate reduction as a time-saver 

in the treatment of diabetes. Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., 172, (1915), p. 929. 
Woodyatt: Acidosis in diabetes. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 66 (1916), p. 1910. 
Gcyelin and Du Bois: A case of diabetes of maximum severity with marked improvement. 

Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 66 (1916), p. 1532. 
Hill and Eckman: Starvation (Allen) Treatment of Diabetes. (1916) 



SWEEPING POWDER 

Miss Eda Lord Murphy, of Georgia Normal and Industrial College, 
sends the following directions for the preparation of a sweeping powder, 
the result of experiments made in the school, with varying proportions. 

The ingredients of this satisfactory sweeping powder are sawdust; 
sand, tending to polish the floor; salt, keeping the mixture moist; kero- 
sene for catching the dust, and a disinfectant. 

Sawdust 1 barrel 

Sand (sifted) 1 bushel 

Salt (coarse) 10 pound* 

Kerosene to moisten. 
Crcolin, or other disinfectant. 

The commercial varieties cost about 3^ cents per pound, even in large 
quantities, while this can be made at a cost of about I cent per pound. 



1917] A MASSACHUSETTS CANNING SCHOOL 27 

A MASSACHUSETTS CANNING SCHOOL 

LAURA COMSTOCK 
Extension Professor in Home Economics, Massachusetts Agricultural College 

The Essex County Agricultural School held a canning school during 
the first week of September, in Danvers, Mass., to give instruction to 
the housekeepers and the local leaders of canning clubs of that county. 
Mr. Fred A. Smith, Director of the school, conceived the idea and secured 
the cooperation of the Massachusetts Agricultural College to map out 
a program, secure necessary demonstrators and speakers, and to assist 
during the week of the school. 

A temporary wooden structure was erected adjacent to the Home 
Economics building. This was screened and was equipped with seven 
tables, each accommodating eight people; two ranges, two oil stoves, 
one out-door canner stove. Charcoal and oil were the fuels. 

Each member of the school actually took part in the canning, learn- 
ing "to do by doing." The vegetables and fruits used were raised on 
the farm in connection with the school. 

From 9.30 to 10 each morning instruction was given by members of 
the Agricultural School staflf on the cultivation of fruits and vegetables. 
The rest of the morning was devoted to the actual work of canning both 
fruits and vegetables, jelly making, and similar processes under the 
direction of Mrs. Nellie F. Snyder of the United States Department of 
Agriculture. 

The first hour in the afternoon "The Menu" was discussed under the 
leadership of Miss Laura Comstock of the Massachusetts Agricultural 
College. The second hour was given to lectures on health and sani- 
tation. Dr. EvangeHne W. Young of the School of Eugenics, Boston, 
talked on personal and sex hygiene; Miss Mary Stocking of Simmons 
College gave two talks on sanitation in the home, and Dr. Jones of the 
State Board of Health gave a talk on the prevention of disease. 

For three afternoons Mr. George L, Farley, State Leader of Junior 
Extension Work, gave instruction as to the value of club work to the 
individual boy or girl and to the community, discussed ways of organ- 
izing clubs, and the follow-up work necessary. Miss Bertha A. Holden, 
appointed supervisor of the Homemaking School in the Essex County 
Agricultural School in July, made possible the week's success by attend- 
ing to details and providing night quarters. 



28 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Although the weather was exceedingly hot for three of the five days 
an average attendance of 79 for the five days showed the interest taken 
in the work and the value members placed upon the instruction. 

The practical work done by the students was as follows: canning of 
fruits and vegetables, jelly making, fruit butters, marmalades, and con- 
serves. 

The success of the school has proved to those who had it in charge 
the desirability of this kind of instruction in other localities. 



THE NEED OF STANDARDIZATION 

The Twenty-third Annual Report of the Inspector of State High 
Schools, state of Minnesota, for the school year ending July 31, 1916, 
contains the following statement: 

Less can be said favorable to manual and home training. Teachers are 
better trained than formerly and, as a result, such subject-matter as we have 
is better presented. The required qualifications of teachers in both these 
departments are as high as it is at present desirable to make them. But the 
courses of study are too often found to be unrelated and indefinite — having 
no purposeful connection with other school work and leading to no intelligent 
and serviceable life relationships. There are no prescribed nor generally 
accepted standards of content for the courses of study in either manual or 
home training. The character of the work in these departments leads to the 
conclusion that a suggestive outline of subject-matter must be prepared at 
the earliest time possible. 

Home training is found to be by far the most popular subject. The enroll- 
ment shows a decided increase in the grades and has almost doubled in the 
high school. The number of departments has increased from 79 to 185. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

ANNOUNCEMENT 

Miss Helen Louise Johnson, who has been for four years chairman 
of the Home Economics Department of the General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, and whose remarkable work on this committee has 
aided materially in the development of Home Economics, is to write 
a series of articles for the Homemaker's Department. These will 
appear in February, March, April, May, September, October, and 
November. 

The first three topics are as follows: 

I. February. Food and the Budget. 

A study of conditions and how to meet them. 
II. March. Women and Clothes. 

What the clubs are doing in the matter of standardi- 
zation. 
III. April. Club Programs in Home Economics. 



HOMEMAKING AS A PROFESSION 

MRS. LEAH D. WIDSTOE 
Salt Lake City 

"Home Economics stands for the ideal home life for today unham- 
pered by the traditions of the past." 

Home Economics as trade or profession. A trade is an occupation in 
which the worker is instructed in the performance of certain tasks, with 
the responsibihty or power of directing assumed by another. Such is 
the trade of carpenter, mason, bricklayer, plumber. 

The work which involves the responsibihty of having the many tasks 
correctly done is in the nature of a profession. Thus the work of the 
architect or contractor is a profession. 

The term "learned profession" often is used. That involves the 
spending of much time and possibly money in the learning of the chosen 

29 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

profession, and is usually done by means of attendance at schools and 
colleges. Such is the profession of law, medicine, architecture, and all 
the liberal arts. 

One may learn to assume the responsibihty in the performance of 
great tasks by hard knocks in the school of experience only. Such 
would not be termed a learned profession. The business of a contractor 
may be classed here. 

In the light of the above definitions where may the great work of 
homemaking be classed? It is universal; that is, there are workers of 
all classes and intelligences engaged in its occupation. But the woman 
who is the most successful in making a home is in every sense engaged 
in a learned profession — the greatest one on earth. For she has to 
initiate, plan, direct, and carry out operations which involve in greater 
or less degree all the sciences and arts known to man. She also deals 
with those subtler spiritual powers which make or mar his personal 
happiness and influence his soul's salvation. 

The importance of this work as regards children can scarcely be over- 
estimated. Mrs. Fisher has indicated the great responsibility of par- 
ents when she says: "We might conceivably have undertaken to build 
railway bridges, even though the lives of multitudes depended on them; 
we might have become lawyers and settled people's material affairs for 
them; or even, as doctors, settled the matter of their physical life or 
death. But to be responsible to God, to society, and to the soul in ques- 
tion for the health, happiness, moral growth, and usefulness of a human 
soul, what reflective parent among the whole army of us has not had 
moments of heart-sick terror at the realization of what he has been set 
to do?" 

Can anyone feel that this important work should be undertaken at 
marriage by girls who rely for preparation upon chance occupations at 
home supplemented by the much abused "mother instinct"? "There 
should be no more question as to the need of education and training for 
the woman who selects the food, clothing, and works of art which 
minister to the highest welfare of a family, than there is for the need 
of study on the i)art of the farmer, manufacturer, or the artist who 
produces them." 

Methods of acquiring. The young woman of today has no excuse for 
answering "not prepared" when life demands that she assume her 
place as homcmakcr. 

The ideal way for her to learn her profession is to be a willing helper 



1917] HOMEMAKING AS A PROFESSION 31 

in a well ordered home, always as Mother's first assistant. There she 
learns through actual hand contact the methods and the practice of the 
scientific truth she has learned in the schoolroom. 

The mother has not time to teach her the theory as well as the prac- 
tice even though she knows it. So the schools must supplement this 
home training and give boys and girls an intimate understanding of 
these truths that they are to use most in their after hfe. All truth is 
good, but life is so fleeting that one must choose that most worth 
while. 

Those who are mothers and grandmothers today need not feel cheated 
because the schools did not teach such things in their time. Our grand- 
mothers, many of them, were beautiful housekeepers and splendid 
mothers. They learned their lessons in the hard school of experience 
and with the price of much unnecessary suffering. Their daughters may 
now start Hfe with much of the wisdom with which they ended it; 
but the daughters must go on, improve, and learn other lessons. 

All that is necessary is that the desire for improvement remain with 
one to the end of Ufe, for the absence of growth is death. 

There are many ways in which the mature woman of today may 
keep up-to-date in matters pertaining to better homes. First, she 
should keep an open mind and, by means of observation of others in 
their homes and methods of daily life, find things to avoid or to accept 
and make part of her own life. There are so many good books and 
magazines pubhshed that one can never hope to keep up with all of 
Ihem; but one should be alert to find new works that will be of par- 
ticular benefit, and also if possible to be conversant with at least one 
good home magazine. 

In addition there are the extension and correspondence schools pro- 
vided by the government and state educational authorities which make 
possible the bringing of new truth and inspiration to our very doors. 
So the wide-awake woman of today, be she 16 or 60 or 90 years old, can 
not fail to improve her condition of life unless she is wilfully blind or 
lazy. 

The beauty of home work. A book could be written on the beauty 
and benefits of home work. Here let it be understood that no work 
in which man engages on earth can give more satisfaction, more com- 
plete joy than that experienced by the mother who has brought up her 
family in a happy, well ordered home, and sent them out into the world 
trained to deal with its problems and with the spirit of service. 



32 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

In no sense can this work be termed drudgery unless the one who 
undertakes it is totally unprepared for it. The performance of a task 
by rote in which the mind takes little or no account may be termed 
drudgery. To avoid this the first essential is the proper training. 
''Whenever one's knowledge of a subject passes the stage of drudgery 
and becomes a science, its performance immediately becomes a pleasure. 
The ability to do a thing in the highest known perfection, or even a little 
better than anyone else, is always a source of delight, and it matters 
little what that somethings is." 

All human work possesses a certain amount of routine or work that 
must be performed over and over again in the same manner. This 
is unavoidable with conditions of morality. Even the artist who paints 
the most glorious conceptions of nature must clean his brushes and his 
palette and even his studio. If he can not afford an assistant he does 
it himself. Yet one never hears an artist going around complaining 
about the drudgery- of cleaning his materials! All work must accept its 
known routine but the worker must use brai'^.s to make the routine as 
little as possible and to keep its place in the background, as does the 
artist. 

The essential thing for all to learn is to love their work, to see its 
possibilities as well as its diflSculties and to make their work their serv- 
ant instead of their master. This can be done by the homemaker as 
well as by the physician. 

Indeed the first essential to all good work is joy in the doing of it. 
So the girl must learn her job just as seriously as the boy learns his and 
must know that it is worth while. 

Practice every day finding something helpful to the members of your 
family that will contribute to their "higher life" and do not hesitate to 
let your daughter or her friend hear you speak of this phase of home 
work. We always find what we look for — if it is improvement; it I» 
at our very door knocking for entrance. Will you not let it enter? 



1917] DISTRIBUTION 33 

DISTRIBUTION: WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT IT? 

PERCIVAL FASSIG 
Wheeling, Wesl Virginia 

Distribution is getting the finished product to the consumer. In 
fifty, yes, seventy five, per cent of the cases it costs more to market an 
article than to manufacture it. We often wonder why prices are 
higher today than formerly. Much can be traced to finding a market. 
Finding or creating a market costs money, and lots of it. 

If one picks up any magazine or newspaper and looks over the pages 
of advertisements one finds automobiles, typewriters, furniture, shoes, 
clothing, preserves, meats, beans, pickles, canned goods, breakfast foods, 
all arrayed in expensive space with well written matter, and, often 
artistically illustrated. Then in many cases thousands are spent on 
circular letters, and store, billboard and street-car advertising. Unfor- 
tunately, after creating a market the manufacturer can not rest on that; 
he must keep "everlastingly at it" should he desire to be successful. 
When we stop to consider, we know that we must help pay for that 
expense when an advertised article is purchased? That is only part of 
the distribution system. In addition, there are the salesmen, or agents, 
or brokers, the jobbers, the retailers, and the transportation, including 
the dray age. 

Creating a market, then, is one source of our "high cost of hving." 
Whose fault is it? It is yours, mine, and the other person's. We do 
not know what we want — we rely on the statement of somebody else. 

If the farmer must pay more for his clothing, shoes, and implements, 
he must receive more for his products. If the working man must pay 
more for his food, wearing apparel, furniture, and rent, he must receive 
higher wages. And so goes on the endless chain which has its beginning 
in finding a market. 

Undoubtedly, the greatest force in creating a market is advertising— 
the printed word— and it is undoubtedly the most expensive. Few 
articles intended for the people at large find a ready market unless well 
advertised. Take any fine, and the dealer will say that it is the adver- 
tised article that is asked for by name, and that it is difiicult to sell the 
unadvertised product. 

Salesmen are another form of advertising. The firm using printers' 
ink must also, as a rule, employ salesmen. All the printers' ink in the 



34 THE jouRNAX OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

world will not bring success unless the article is easily obtainable. 
Therefore, the manufacturer through his salesmen goes after the jobber, 
and the jobber in turn assails the retailer, who places the article before 
the consumer. 

Staples such as sugar, flour, potatoes, beans, apples, and oranges are 
not, as a rule, advertised with printers' ink, but they must yield from 
three to four, and sometimes five, profits before they reach the con- 
sumer. Oranges are handled to a great extent through growers' asso- 
ciations; the associations reach the jobbers, or commission merchants, 
through local brokers who employ salesmen; the jobbers through their 
salesmen reach the retailers; and many retailers have salesmen (men to 
call at the homes) to reach the consumers. In addition to this expense, 
there is railroad transportation to the jobber, drayagc to his v/are- 
house; drayage to the retailer (sometimes drayage, transportation, and 
drayage); and delivery to the consumer. That is distribution. Does 
one wonder why it costs to live? 

Every one of us who is too proud to carry our purchases is a party to 
this high cost of hving. The grocer vnll tell you deUvery forms the 
greatest part of his overhead expense. A most commendable plan is 
that, adopted by some merchants, of charging a certain per cent addi- 
tional for deUvery. 



THE FOOD SUPPLY 

The annual report of the Secretary of Agriculture contains the fol- 
lowing interesting answer to the question as to whether the domestic 
food supply of the Nation is keeping pace with the growth in popula- 
tion and what are the prospects for the future. 

Food supply of iht United Stales 

POPULATION 

June 1, l'X)0 75,9'M,575 

June 1, lyiO 92,174,516 

June 1,1916 101,882,479 



1917] 



THE FOOD SUPPLY 



35 



IT KM 


PRODUCTION 




Total 


Per capita 


Meats; Beef, veal, mutton, and pork (pounds): 

1899 


18,865,000,000 
19,712,000,000 
22,378,000,000 

7,265,804,304 
7,466,406,384 
7,696,844,000 

1,790,097,244 
1,942,378,069 


248.2 


1909 


213.9 


1915 


219.6 


Dairy products: 
MUk (gallons) 

1899 


95.6 


1909 


81.0 


1915 (pstirriatHO 


75.5 


Butter and cheese (pounds) 

1899 


23.6 


1909 


21.1 


1915 (no data available) 
Poultry products: 

Poultry raised (number) 

1899 




1909 


488,500,000 
555,500,000 

1,294,000,000 
1,591,000,000 
1,811,000,000 

989,275,000 
1,046,541,000 

3,333,868,710 
3,257,407,468 
4,094,986,999 

273,318,167 
389,194,965 
359,103,000 

42,517,412 
59,232,070 
74,295,000 

7,075,557 
23,447,044 
24,670.282 


5.3 


1915 (estimated) 


5.5 


Eggs (dozens) 

1899 


17.0 


1909 


17.3 


1915 (estimated*) 


17.8 


Fish (pounds): 


n2.5 


1908 


»11.6 


1915 (no data available) 
Cereals: Com, wheat, and rice (bushels): 

1899 


43.9 


1909 


35.3 


1915 


40.2 


Potatoes (bushels) : 

1899 


3.6 


1909 


4.2 


1915 


3.5 


Sweet potatoes (bushels) : 

1899 


0.56 


1909 


0.64 


1915 


0.73 


Citrus fruits: Oranges, lemons, and grapefruit (boxes). 

1899 


0.093 


1909 


0.254 


1915 (estimated) 


0.272 



* Based upon average annual increase, 1899 to 1909, as shown in census. 

* Based upon population, June 1, 1902, 79,230,563. 

* Based upon population, June 1, 1909, 90,556,521. 



36 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



Food supply 


of the United Statf.s- 


-Continued 






ITKM 








PRODDCTIOl* 




Total 


Per capita 


Orchard fruits: Apples, peaches, anc 
1899 


pears 


(bushels) : 




197,455,620 
190,433.327 
304,686,000 

463,218,612 
426,565,863 

486,006,871 
1,688,390,143 
2,025,680,000 


2.6 


1909 


2.1 


1915 


3.0 


Small fruits (quarts) : 

1899 


6.1 


1909 


4.6 


1915 (no data available) 
Sugar (pounds): 

1899 


6.4 


1909 


18.3 


1915 


19.9 



These statistics cover the past sixteen years. Within this period the 
population of the nation has increased, in round numbers, 26,000,000, 
or 33 per cent. The articles dealt with cover the more important parts 
of the diet of the people. Meats and dairy products constitute 37 per 
cent of the average diet, fish 2 per cent, cereals 31 per cent, Irish and 
sweet potatoes 13 per cent, and other vegetables 8 per cent. It is not- 
able that, notwithstanding the very rapid increase in population, the 
production per capita of the commodities indicated, with the exception 
of meats and dairy products, has remained approximately the same or 
has increased. 



FOOD LABELS 

In order that the legend on food and drug packages may be less mis- 
leading to the public, the ofiicials in charge of the enforcement of the 
Food and Drugs Act have provided a new plan whereby manufacturers 
may guarantee their products on the invoice or bill of sale, or by cer- 
tain other methods, but according to a food inspection decision which 
became effective on November 1, 1916, they may not make any state- 
ment regarding a guaranty or serial number on the labels of packages 
of foods or drugs which enter interstate or foreign commerce. 

Originally it was provided that the manufacturer or wholesaler who 
desired to guarantee that his products complied witli the Food and 



1917] FOOD LABELS 37 

Drugs Act might file a general guaranty with the Department of Agri- 
culture to the effect that the foods or drugs he shipped into interstate 
commerce were not adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of 
that act. He was then assigned a serial number and was authorized to 
use this number on his labels to indicate that the guaranty which he had 
filed with the Department covered the products on which the number 
was used. After this method had been in operation for some time it 
was found that it was incorrectly assumed by consumers generally and 
some retail dealers that the guaranty legend on the label meant that a 
sample of the product had been examined by the Department and that 
in effect the Department actually guaranteed the product. 

The object of the new provision is to make the manufacturer or 
wholesaler or person who knows the composition of the food and drug 
products responsible for their compliance with the provisions of the 
law. In many cases a dealer does not know the composition of the 
products he sells, and can not afford the expense of having an analysis 
made in order to determine it for himself. A provision, theretore, was 
inserted in the law to the effect that, if the dealer secured a guaranty 
from the manufacturer or wholesaler or other person from whom he 
purchases, the party making the guaranty would be responsible under 
the law, and the dealer would be reheved of responsibility. The dealer 
should see that all his foods and drugs which have entered interstate 
commerce, or which he expects to ship in interstate or foreign com- 
merce or to sell in the District of Columbia or the Territories, are guaran- 
teed to him in the manner outlined. 

The guaranty was never intended to be, and never has been, in any 
sense a guaranty by the Department of Agriculture. 

There is also a net weight amendment to the Federal Food and Drugs 
Act requiring that all packages of foods which are shipped into inter- 
state or foreign commerce must be marked plainly and conspicuously 
with a statement of the quantity of the net contents, either by weight 
or measure. Shippers who violate the law by failing to mark the quan- 
tity of the contents of each package of fruits and vegetables they ship 
into interstate commerce are liable to criminal prosecution. 



EDITORIAL 

A Greeting. AHappy New Year to the readers of the Journal! In 
planning for the coming year we wish to thank our readers for the many 
pleasant things they have said of the Journal, and for their appre- 
ciation of what we have tried to do, and also for the criticisms that 
are showing us how to make an efTective expression of the purposes of the 
Association. We wish to bring needed help to every teacher of Home 
Economics, to the many housekeepers who are looking to us for guid- 
ance, to the extension worker, and the institution manager. It is our 
ambition to be in every librar}- in the country, to be on sale at one news 
stand at least in every large city, and to go into many homes. 

For the coming year we plan short articles that will interpret to the 
reader the results of research and investigation, in addition to the longer 
reviews of such work; articles written with direct reference to the high 
school teacher's needs; six articles by the editor written with particular 
reference to the elementary school; and seven for the Homemaker's 
Department by Miss Helen Louise Johnson, who for four years served 
the General Federation as Chairman of their Home Economics Depart- 
ment. In addition we hope for many contributions from the various 
colleges and schools where work is going on and new ideas are being 
worked out. 

\Vc express heartily our thanks to the many who have contributed 
during the year articles, reviews, news items. Without these contribu- 
tions we could not conduct the Journal. 

The Smith-Hughes Bill. The Smith-Hughes Bill that has so long 
been under consideration will probably be brought up for passage in 
the House early in January. It will then go to a conference committee 
to be amalgamated with the i)ill that has already passed the Senate. 
The following organization for the Board of Control is proposed: 

1. A Federal Board of Seven consUtini^ of; 

Til' '•, I^lxjr, the Commissioner of Kduc.ll ion, and 

> .>c of Agriculture, of Labor, and of Manufac- 
ture and Commerce. 

38 



1917] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 39 

m A Federal Board of Five consisting of 

The Secretary of the Interior, the Commissioner of Education, and three members 

generally representative of Agriculture, of Labor, and of Manufacture and Con>- 

merce. 
To be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a 

term of four years. 
Compensation — adequate to secure the services of the highest grade men. 

2. Federal Board to annually elect its Chairman. 

3. Federal Board to appoint a general director of all vocational work; compensation to be 

fixed by the Board. 

4. Federal Board to employ such clerical and other assistants as may be necessary. 

5. Advisory Committees to be Appointed from time to time, of five members, each generally 

representative of Industry, Commerce, Labor, Agriculture, Ilomemaking, and General 
or Vocational Education. 

Term of Service to be determined by Federal Board of Vocational Education. 

Compensation of Advisory Committees to be determined by Federal Board of Voca- 
tional Education. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

TEACHING HOME ECONOMICS ABROAD 

The International Committee on Home Economics Teaching has 
received the following from one of the readers of the Journal. 

I have read with keen interest the article "International Interests in Home 
Economics" appearing in the November Journal of Home Economics. 
For several years it has been my ambition to go out into some country less 
favored educationally than our own and to have a share in Home Economics 
pioneering. I think that we who beUeve in education for the home should 
have a large share in training of young women in South America, Africa, the 
Islands, and the Orient. 

If the International Cominittee on Home Economics has a hst of candidates 
for foreign work, I should be very glad to register. How may I best learn of 
foreign conditions and opportunities, especially relating to the field of Home 
Economics? 

Three cheers for Canton Christian College, and for Miss Liu and for all who 
are making big ventures for the sake of big causee! 

With heartiest interest in the international work and a desire to cooperate, 
I am, Yours very truly, * * * * 

The Chairman of the International Committee, Dr. Andrews of 
Teachers College, Columbia University, will be very glad indeed to 
hear from other members of the Association. 



40 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

THE QUESTION BOX 

The following question comes from a visiting housekeeper in one of 
our large cities: 

"Wc tind that we must economize in all possible ways but we do not 
wish to do so in any manner that will affect the health of the child. 
What would you have to say in regard to the substitution of skim-milk, 
for whole milk for the entire family use?" 

Afisu'cr: It has been found by recent investigation that certai fats 
carry an essential dietary constituent, a food accessory the chemical 
nature of which is at present but Httle understood. Animals fed on 
diets lacking this substance fail to grow normally and finally die although 
sufficient fat as such is contained in the diet. The fat of milk and egg 
yolk apparently contains more of this unknown substance than other 
natural foods. Animal tissues, especially the active organs, contain 
some of this material. It is present in beef suet but wholly lacking in 
lard. In cereal grains it is present in small but wholly inadequate 
amounts. Vegetable oils contain very little or any of it. Therefore 
to advise the use of separator skimmed milk containing only 0.02 % to 
0.05 % of fat, in the diets of children may be unwise unless adequate 
provision is made for supplying the essential fat soluble constituent 
through a fairly liberal use of eggs, butter, cream and meat. In 
groups where the cost of these foods makes their use almost prohibitive 
it is wiser to use whole milk, for there is danger that the children 
may suffer from lack of this essential fat constituent. 

The literature pertaining to this substance includes the following 
important articles. 

Osborne and Mendel, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 15, 1913, p. 311; Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 16, 1913, 

p. 423; Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 17, 1914, p. 401. 
McCollum and Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 15, 1913, p. 167; Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 20, 

1915, p. 633. 
McCollum, N. Simmonds, W. Pitz, Amcr. Jour. Physiol., vol. 41, 1916, p. 333. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Milk and lis Hygienic Relations. By Janet 
E. Lane-Claypon, M.D. New York: 
Longmans, Green and Company, 1916, 
pp. vi + 348. $2.50. By mail of the 
Journal, $2.64. 

To any one who is at all familiar with the 
enormous number and diversity of the scien- 
tiSc contributions to the subjects of milk 
and its relations to the public health a 
review of the literature thereof seems like 
a herculean task for any one individual. 
Yet this has been undertaken by Dr. Lane- 
Claypon, Assistant Medical Inspector under 
the Local Government Board, for the Medi- 
cal Research Committee of Great Britain. 
The resulting volume, which was called 
"a well-documented encyclopaedia of the 
subject, and more" by one reviewer is not 
intended merely as a guide to the research 
worker in the problems of milk and its 
proper treatment as food. It is also writ- 
ten "to allow those ignorant of scientific 
technology to appreciate the chief posi- 
tions which knowledge has gained in this 
matter, and that for this reason the book 
may have added value in bringing the 
illumination given by scientific work to 
those who are responsible for the formation 
of public opinion and for the determination 
of administrativ'e action." 

Out of the wealth of available material 
the author states that she has concentrated 
attention mainly upon those branches of 
the subject which have received less at- 
tention from other writers. Her volume 
includes chapters upon the composition 
of milk; its so-called "biological properties;" 
its cellular content; the changes in milk 
incident to various manipulations such as 
heating in preparation for feeding it; the 
contaminations of milk; the comparison 



of breast feeding and the use of cow's 
milk for infants; bacteria and milk; along 
with other essays less easily classified. Each 
chapter is followed by a selected bibliog- 
raphy; and it is preceded by a brief sum- 
mary written in non-technical language so 
as to present the more permanent deduc- 
tions as well as the unsolved problems to 
the lay reader. This is a unique feature 
well worth embodying in other books of a 
similar purpose. 

Some of the readers of the Journal will 
recall the remarkable volume on Milk and 
Its Relation to the Public Health, compiled 
from essays by various authors and pub- 
lished in 1908 as Bulletin No. 41 by the 
Hygienic Laboratory of the U. S. Public 
Health Service. The reviewer has failed 
to discover in Dr. Lane-Claypon's book 
any mention of this valuable contribution 
which contained among numerous others a 
noteworthy monograph by the late Prof. 
J. H. Kastle and Dr. Roberts on the Chem- 
istry of Milk. In fact one will search in 
vain in the new volume for references to 
some of the many American contributions 
to the literature on milk later than 1913, 
although British papers of the following two 
years are not overlooked. This charge of 
neglect does not apply to the subject of 
milk-borne infections in which the American 
papers on streptococcic sore throat are not 
forgotten. 

Some of the traditional statements, par- 
ticularly in regard to the overworked milk 
ferments, might well be abandoned and 
finally deleted from our books. Many of 
the assumptions are based on data from 
the days prior to the appreciation of strict 
antisepsis or asepsis in the study of cer- 
tain milk problems. It requires courage 



41 



42 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



to consign some of the older ideas to the 
rubbish heap. Dr. Lane-CIaj-pon's dis- 
cussion of the inorganic components of 
milk is timely. Some of the theses in 
regard to the transferrence of immunity 
through milk are important, if substan- 
tiated. Pediatricians will read with some 
interest that "where artificial feeding must 
be employed, there is no evidence that milk 
loses any of its nutritive value by boiling. 
The work of numerous observers indicates 
that rather more satisfactory progress is 
made with boiled than with raw milk" (p. 
188); and that "very little difference, if 
any, appears to be detected between the 
ditlcrent forms of milk— that is, raw or 
boiled. In some instances the boiled milk 
appears to be better utilized than the raw, 
while in one or two cases the reverse is 
found to be the case. Generally, however, 
no marked difference was shown" (p. 174). 
No reference is made to the contentions of 
Hess regarding the appearance of scorbutus 
due to the exclusive use of pasteurized milk; 
but the author devotes a chapter to the 
alleged production of Barlow's disease by 
the use of heated milk. It is interesting 
to have some attention given to the grow- 
ing importance of dried milks in the food 
industr>'. In defence of breast-feeding Dr. 
Lane-Cla>TX)n is convinced that ''the evi- 
dence brought fonvard gives no support to 
the statements which,have been made to the 
effect that the capacity for lactation is 
decreasing among women. Where care is 
exercised and adequate attention paid to 
the necessary details, the glands can in 
nearly all cases be brought into the re- 
quired degree of activity" (p. 147). 

The author has frankly said that the hy- 
gienic a-spccts of the milk supply open such 
a variety of intricate questions that it is dif- 
ficult to form a well-balanced judgment. 
There should be some con.solalion to any 
who has labored so diligently, in the 
knowledge that each earnest attempt, like 
the present one hcl|>s to make subsequent 
efforts both ca.sicr and l)Ctler. Every such 
useful service is commendable. 

Lafayettk B. Mendkl. 



Human Physiology. By Percy G. Stiles. 
Philadelpliia: \V. B. Saunders Company. 
1916, pp. 405. $1.50. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.64. 

Here is a most welcome addition to that 
very short list of text-books in physiology 
which cover the subject more completely 
and thoroughly than docs the high school 
text, yet not in the detail required for one 
suitable for use in a medical school. 

While this is a general text, the chief 
emphasis is undeniably upon topics relat- 
ing to nutrition, i.e., digestion, absorption, 
metabolism, dietetics; about one-fourth of 
the book is devoted to these. They are 
still more fully treated in Nutritional Physi- 
ology, by the same author. 

The subject-matter is modern, the author's 
point of view is carefully chosen with refer- 
ence to the needs of the general student 
not armed with two or three >ears of col- 
lege work in several sciences. Where the 
facts are notably a matter of dispute, e.g., 
with regard to kinds and amount of pro- 
teins in the diet, desirableness of frugality 
in feeding, the contentions and the evidence 
on both sides receive attention. 

We cannot help suspecting, as we read, 
that this author must be not only a scientist 
and a teacher, but ailso a philosopher and a 
shrewd observer of human nature. Be- 
cause of this attitude, his book should make 
a general appeal and have a wide usefulness. 
Mi.NNA C. Denton. 

Nutritional Physiology. By Percy G. Stiles. 
Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company. 
Second edition, 1915, pp. 288. $1.25 
By mail of the Journal, $1.36. 

Those of us who have been in the habit 
of recommending this book to students in 
need of a review of the subject, were glad 
to see the new edition apjxrar. The addi- 
tions which have been niadc (e.g., mention 
of Carlson's work on the stoniach, and the 
section on vitamincs), though not extensive, 
are important. 

The book treats of digestion and metabol- 
ism in simple, concise, elementary fashion, 



1917] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



43 



and may be used by those who have only 
a rudimentary preparation in chemistry and 
biolog>', as well as by others who desire a 
brief review brought up to date. 

The author has a gift for making clear 
even the most complicated of these topics 
and the most intricate details. Moreover, 
the book is a practical one, i.e., it undertakes 
to apply scientific teachings to every day 
experiences wherever possible. Best of all, 
it strikes a happy medium between the de- 
tailed scientific statement which is so strictly 
qualified as to convey no distinct impres- 
sion of any sort to the general reader, and 
the vivid, not to say lurid, imagery so fre- 
quently indulged in by the writer who 
serves up scientific topics for pwpular con- 
sumption. 

As a text-book, it is particularly recom- 
mended to the attention of teachers of home 
economics classes consisting of students who 
must, for some reason, abridge as much as 
possible their preparation in physiology, yet 
need to understand many of the details of 
the physiology of nutrition and the teach- 
ings of dietetics. It is also recommended 
as a book of reference to those interested in 
reading a brief, sane digest of those topics 
so difficult to treat, classed under the head- 
ing "Hygiene of Nutrition." 

Minna C. Denton. 

Thrift by Household Accounting. Published 
by the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, 1211 Cathedral Street, Baltimore, 
Md., 1916, pp. 34 (paper). $0.15. 
This pamphlet offers several unique fea- 
tures. It is the only account book giving 
opportunity for recording the expenditure 
of money for foods according to their lead- 
ing constituents. The system of classifying 
all expenditures at the first entry prevents 
duplication. It provides, furthermore, for 
the record of personal expenditures for indi- 
vidual members of the family. 

It makes provision for thirteen weeks of 
house, food, and personal expenditure, with 
a summary for each week of "cash for use," 
" cash used" and " cash left over." Further- 
more, there is a sunamary of weekly cash 
records, savings, and debts, for, as the intro- 
duction suggests, "It is often advantageous 



to keep a record of saNnngs so as to encourage 
their increase, and a record of debts so as 
to encourage their decrease." 

The introductory statements are very sug- 
gestive, and the publication should be valu- 
able to the busy housekeeper because of its 
simplicity and its dietetic emphasis. 

Thrift by Household .Vccounting is already 
in its second thousand. It has been adopted 
by a number of social investigators who 
find it especially helpful in tabulating the 
expenditure of individual members of fami- 
lies. It is well adapted to class use in the 
study of budgets. 

Cora M. Winchell. 

Low Cost Recipes. By Edith Gwendo- 
lyn Harbison. Philadelphia: George W. 
Jacobs and Company, 1914, pp 208. 
$0.75 By mail of the Journal, $0.83. 
This book is written by the editor of 
Table Talk and is evidently a collection of 
recipes from that magazine. Its name 
would imply that it was another contribu- 
tion to the literature intended for the 
housekeeper who must count the costs with 
care. If in the cost of food is included 
labor, time, cost of materials, and utensils 
required for preparation, the term "low 
cost" is misleading. A number of the dishes 
give ways of using leftovers but since they 
call for the use of ring molds, patty shells, 
and many unusual seasonings and ways 
of garnishing they will not be of much use 
in reducing the cost of living. The recipes 
are evidently collected from many sources 
for there is no uniformity of terras or 
methods. In this day of level measure- 
ments it is very strange to see the phrases 
"heaping teaspoon" and "rounding table- 
spoon" and even that stand-by of our 
grandmothers "butter the size of an egg." 
Soda is put into sour milk in some recipes 
while in others it is dissolved in hot water. 
There are no general directions or de- 
scriptions and there are a number of types 
of dishes which are not mentioned. How- 
ever there are many attractive recipes and 
to a young housekeeper or an experienced 
one who has fallen into a rut the book 
should offer valuable suggestions. 

Frances L. Swain, 



44 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Adenoids and Tonsils. By Algernon Coolidge. (Harvard Health Talks) Cambridge, Mass.: 
Har\-ard University Press, 1916, pp. 46. $.50. By mail of the Journal, $.55. 

An Adequate Diet. By Percy G. Stiles. (Harvard Health Talks) Cambridge, Mass.: 
Harvard University Press, 1916, pp. 48. $.50. By mail of the Journal, $.55. 

The Baby Before and After Arrival. By Joseph Brown Cooke. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippin- 
cott Company, 1916, pp. 239. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 

Clothing and Health. By Helen Kinne and Anna M. Cooley. New York: Macmillan Com- 
pany. 1916, pp. 302. $.65. By mail of the Journal, $.71. 

Constructive Sewing. Book 1. By Mary E. Fuller. Indianapolis, Ind.: Industrial Book 
and Equipment Company, 1916, pp. 91. $.60 (paper). By mail of the Journal, $.65. 

The Control of Hunger in Health and Disease. By Anton Julius Carlson. Chicago: Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press, 1916, pp. 319. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.14. 

Elia Flagg Yottng and Half a Century of the Chicago Public Schools. By John T. McManis. 
Chicago: McClurg and Company, 1916, pp. 238. $1.25. 

Feeding the Family. By Mary Swartz Rose. New York: Macmillan Company, 1916, 
pp. 449, $2.10. By mail of the Journal, $2.21. 

Food and Health. By Helen Kinne and Anna M. Cooley. New York: Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1916, pp. 312. $.65. By mail of the Journal, $.75. 

The Home Care of Sick Children. By Emelyn Lincoln Coolidge. New York: D. Appleton 
and Company, 1916, pp. 282. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The following Government pamphlets may be obtained from the Supt. of Documents, 
Government Printing Oflke, Washington, D. C; or Dept. under which they are issued. 

Commercial Handling, Grading, atui Marketing of Potatoes. By C T. Moore. Farmer's 

Bui. No. 753, Nov. 1, 1916, pp. 40. 
Business Practice and Accounts for Cooperative Stores. By J. A. Bexell. U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

Bui. No. 381, Sept. 29, 1916, pp. 56. 
A Surwy of Typical Cooperative Stores in Hie U. S. By J. A. Bexell. U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

Bui. No. 394, Nov. 3, 1916. pp. 32. 
List of References on Child Labor. By H. H. B. Meyer and Laura A. Thompson. U. S. Dept. 

of Labor. Children's Bureau Industrial Series No. 3, 1916, pp. 161. 
A Respiration Calorimeter, Partly Automatic, for the Study of Metabolic Activity of Small 

Magnitudes. By C. F. Langworthy and R. D. Milncr. Reprint form Jour, of Agr. 

Research, vol. 6, No. 18. Dept. of Agr. 1916, pp. 703-720. 
Rural School Sanitation. By Taliaferro Clark. George L. Collins and W. L. Trcadway. 

Pub. Health Bui. No. 77, Treasury Dept. 1916, pp. 127. 

The following arc issued by the Bureau of Farm Development, Business Men's Club, 
Chamber of Commerce, Memphis, Tcnn. 

I^iumei- Peas Beam. By Bessie R. Murphy, pp. 4. 
Peanuts fen Breakfast, Dinner and Supper. By Bessie R. Murphy, pp. 4. 
The Su-ert Potato A i a Food. By Bessie R. Murphy. Special Circular No. 1, pp. 4. 
What Every Home Maker Should Know About Foods. By Bessie R. Muqihy. Home Econom- 
ics Circular No. 1, pp. 4. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 45 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODIC.\L LITERATURE 
Contributions to the bibliography are welcome. Please send material to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

A Comparison of Bacteriological Methods for the Examination of Oysters. C. Bates 
and L. A. Round, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 8, pp. 841-846, fig. 1. 

Milk Clarifiers. C. Bahlman, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 8, pp. 854-857. 

Some Observations on Homogenized Milk and Cream. H. B. Baldwin, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 8, pp. 862-864, figs. 2. 

The Effect of Curing on the Aromatic Constituents of Vanilla Beans. F. Rabak, Jour. 
Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 9, pp. 815-821, figs. 3. 

Fifteenth Biennial Report of the Minnesota State Dairy and Food Commissioner. J. G. 
Winkjer, Bien. Rpt. Minn. State Dairy and Food Comr., 15 (1914), pp. 89, figs. 10. 

Annual Report of the Commissioner of Fisheries to the Secretary of Commerce for the 
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1915. H. M. Smith, U. S. Dept. Com., Bur. Fisheries Doc. 827 
(1915), pp. 83. Contains information regarding the quantities and values of food fish prod- 
ucts landed at various places. 

The Dairy and Pure Food Laws of the State of Connecticut. [Hartford, Conn.]: Office 
Dairy and Food Comr., (1916], pp. 52. 

Factors Which Influence the Quality of Tea. J. J. B. Deuss, Dept. Lanbd. Nijv. en Handel 
[Dutch East Indies], Medcd. Proefsta. Thee, No. 42 (1915), pp. 26, pi. 1 ; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 
35 (1916), No. 4, p. 367. 

Twenty-second Annual Report of the Dairy and Food Commissioner of the State of 
Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1915. J. W. Helme, Ann. Rpt. Dairy and Food Comr. 
Mich., 22 (1915), pp. 405, pis. 11. 

Biochemical Changes in Cottonseed in Storage. J. B. Rather, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), No. 7, pp. 604-<507, figs. 2. 

The Detection of Natural and Artificial Pigments in Oleomargarine and Butter. L. S. 
Palmer and \V. E. Thrun, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 7, pp. 614-618. 

The Composition of Sound and Frozen Lemons with Special Reference to the Effect of 
Slow Thawing on Frozen Lemons. H. S. Bakley and C. P. Wilson, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), No. 10, pp. 902-904. 

The Chemist in Food Control.as Relating to the Enforcement of Law. L. M. Tolman, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 10, pp. 926-928. 

Food Control from a State Viewpoint. D. Klein, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 
(1916), No. 10, pp. 928-930. 

Factory Control in the Manufacture of Cornstarch and Com Syrup. A. P. Bryant, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 10, pp. 930-932. 

The Chemical Control of Gelatine Manufacture. J. R. Powell, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), No. 10, pp. 932-933. 

Flour Milling Problems. H. Snyder, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 10, 
pp. 934^940. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

The Nature of the Dietary Deficiencies of the Wheat Embryo. E. V. McCollum, Nina 
Simmonds, and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 25 (1916), No. 1, pp. 105-131, figs. 19. 

Honey in Antidiabetic Diet. A. Y. Davidoff, Russ. Vrach. 14 (II), No. 26, pp.; abs. in 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 65 (1915), No. 16, p. 1412. 



46 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The Preparation and Utilization of Yeast as Food. V.'. Voltz, Ztschr. Spiritusiudiis., 
39 (1916), Nos. 7, pp. 53, 54; 8, pp. 64, 65; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 35 (1916V No. 3, p. 266. 

The Amino Acid Minimum for Maintenance and Growth, as Exemplified by Further 
Experiments with Lysin and Trj-ptophane. T. B. Osborne, L. B. Mendel, et al. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 25 (1916), No. 1, pp. 1-12, figs. 4. 

Gastro-intcstinal Studies. — XII, Direct Evidence of Duodenal Regurgitation and Its 
Influence Upon the Chemistry and Function of the Normal Human Stomach W. H. Spencer, 
G. P. Meyer, M. E. Rehfuss, and P. B. Hawk, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 39 (1916), no. 4, pp. 
459-479, figs. 12. 

Studies on Water Drinking. — XVIII, On the Relation Between Water Ingestion and the 
Ammonia, Phosphate, Chlorid, and Acid Excretion. D. W. Wilson and P. B. Hawk, Jour. 
Amer. Chem. Soc, 36 (1914), no. 8, pp. 1774-1779. 

Studies on Water Drinking. — XIX, Intestinal Putrefaction as Influenced by the Ingestion 
of Softened and Distilled Waters. C. P. Sherwin and P. B. Hawk, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 
36 (1914), no. 8, pp. 1779-1785. 

Studies on Water Drinking. — XX, The Relationship of Water to Certain Life Processes 
and More Especially to Nutrition. P. B. Hawk, Biochem. Bui., 3 (1914), no. 11-12, pp. 420- 
434. 

The Relation of Salivary to Gastric Digestion. L. A. I. Maxwell, Biochem. Jour., 9 
(1915), no. 3, pp. 323-329. 

A Text-book of Military Hygiene and Sanitation. F. R. Keefer, Philadelphia and Lon- 
don: W. B. Saunders Company, 1914. pp. 305 + 8, figs. 47. 

Notes on the Factors Involved in the Germicidal Effect of Freezing and Low Temperatures . 
C. M. HUliard, C. Torossian, and R. P. Stone, Scietice 42 (3915), no. 1091, pp. 770, 771. 

Certain Sanitary Aspects of Candy Manufacture. E. H. Cummins, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
HeaJlh, 5 (1915), no. 11, pp. 1148-1163. This investigation was carried out to determine the 
death rate of different pathogenic bacteria in candy. 

Viability of Bacillus Typhosus in Ice Cream. O. W. H. Mitchell, Jour. .Amer. Med. 
Soc, 65 (1915), no. 21, pp. 1795-1797. 

MiSCELLAKEOUS 

The Lunch Room. P. Richards, Chicago: The Hotel Monthly, 1916, 2 ed., rev. and enl., 
pp. 239, pi. 1, figs. 117. Contains information on plans, equipment, management, account- 
ing, and bills of fare. 

The Master Weaver of the Desert Empire. W. D. C. Crawford, Harper's Mo. Mag., 
133 (1916), July, pp. 289 297, figs. 7. An interesting and valuable account of wea\-ing in 
Peru in prehistoric times, with comparison of the art with that of the old world. 

The Investigation of Composition Flooring. R. R. Shively, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), No. 8, pp. 679-682. 

Some Studies of Soap Solutions. V. Lenher and Mary V. R. Buell, Jour. Indus, and 
Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 8, pp. 701-703, fig. 1. 

The Analysis of Soap Powders. L. Rosenberg and V. Lcnhcr, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chan., 8 (1916), No. 8, pp. 716-719. 

A Note on the Cause of the Pink Color Observed in Certain Hypochlorite Bleaching 
Solutions. H. G. LllcdRC, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 9, pp. 780-781. 

A Contribution to the Chemistry of Laundering. — 1, The Results of Relative Surface 
Tension Measurements of Solutions of Soap and of Solutions of Soap and Various Alkalies. 
H. G. Ellcdge and J. J. Isberwood, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 9, pp. 793- 
794, figs. 2. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Iowa Home Economics Association 
held its eighth annual meeting in Des Moines, 
November 2 and 3, with Miss Winifred Get- 
temy presiding. 

An especially fine program was given. 

Miss Amy Louise Daniels, University of 
Wisconsin, read a paper on The Teaching 
of Dietetics in a High School Course. Dr. 
Lenna L. Meanes of Des Moines gave a 
comprehensive paper and demonstration of 
The \'alue of Scoring and Judging Babies. 
Dr. Meanes used as subjects of the demon- 
stration the ''sweepstakes prize" baby girl 
of Iowa and a defective baby. Miss Clara 
E. Millerd of Grinnell in her paper empha- 
sized the idealistic value of Pictures for the 
Home. A talk on The Teaching of Food 
and Household Management Courses was 
given by Miss Genevieve Fisher, Iowa State 
College. 

The annual business meeting closed the 
day's program. The Committee, having in 
charge the investigation of Home Economics 
conditions in the state with the ultimate aim 
of a standardized course of study in Home 
Economics, is to continue its work under 
the direction of Miss Florence O'Leary of 
Mason City. 

For the second program Mrs. Elbert W. 
Rockwood, Iowa City, gave a practical 
and inspiring address on Mothering a 
Community. Miss Ethel Ronzone of the 
University of Missouri spoke on Clothing 
in the High School. The Teaching of 
Sewing was given by Miss Celestine Schmit 
of the University of Wisconsin. 

The conference was closed by Miss Helen 
Louise Johnson's paper, Training in Spend- 
ing and Sa\ang, which was most enthusiastic- 
ally given and appreciated. 

A Meeting of the Indiana State Home 
Economics Association was held in Indian- 



apolis the last week in October with about 
six hundred present. Miss Mary E. Hall, 
librarian of the Girls High School, Brook- 
lyn, spoke on The Importance of a House- 
hold Arts Library in our High Schools; Miss 
LilUan Lohmeyer, of Evansville, on The 
Modem Trend of Art; and Mrs. Mary 
Schenck Woolman, of Boston, on The 
Relation of Vocational Education to the 
Regular Schools. 

On Friday afternoon Mrs. Woolman 
spoke informally at a Russian tea served 
by a Russian from a samovar, in true Rus- 
sian style. 

Ohio Home Economics Meeting. The 

annual meeting of the Ohio Home Economics 
Association was held in the new Home Econ- 
omics Building at Ohio State University, 
Columbus, Ohio, November 10 and 11, 
1916. About 150 people, representing va- 
rious schools and institutions of the state, 
attended the meetings. 

The meeting opened Friday afternoon with 
a short business session, presided over by 
Miss White of Ohio State University. 
Committees for the new year were appointed 
and general business of the Association 
was transacted. This was followed by two 
addresses: Fitting Home Economics Work 
to Community Needs, by Dean Vivian, 
College of Agriculture, Ohio State Uni- 
versity; and Application of Home Eco- 
nomics to the Present Situation in Germany, 
by Sarah T. Barrows, Assistant Professor 
of German, Ohio State University. This 
was followed by a tea and an inspection of 
the new Home Economics building. 

Saturday morning a short business ses- 
sion was held, after which the meeting di- 
vided into two sections: Institutional Sec- 
tion, with Miss Lulu Graves, Lakeside Hos- 
pital, Cleveland, as chairman; and Public 

47 



48 



TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



School Section, with Miss Edna White of 
Ohio State University as chairman. 

An address, The Present Status of Dieti- 
tians' Work in Ohio, by Dr. J. II. J. Upham, 
member of the State Board of Examiners, 
was given in the Institutional Section, and a 
general discussion followed. The follow- 
ing ofTicers of the Institutional Section were 
elected for ne.xt year: President, Miss Graves, 
Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland; vice-president, 
Miss Deaver, Christ Hospital, Cincinnati; 
and Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Skinner, Ohio 
State University. A committee was ap- 
pointed to formulate recommendations to be 
presented to the State Board of Examiners, 
regarding the status of the work of dietitians 
in the State. 

In the Public School Section the follow- 
ing topics were discussed: Teaching Stand- 
ards Through Domestic Art, and Home 
Economics and the School Lunch. 

After these discussions, the two sections 
reassembled for the final business meeting, 
and the following officers were elected: 
President, Miss Faith Lanman, Columbus, 
Ohio; Secretary -Treasurer, Miss Sarah Stim- 
mel, Akron, Ohio. 

It was decided to make a sur\'ey of Home 
Exonomics Work in Ohio, to be reported 
at the next regular meeting, with the idea 
of standardizing the work given in the state. 

Connecticut Home Economics Associa- 
tion. The fall meeting boasts an attend- 
ance that doubled the largest ever known. 

The address by Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews 
on The American Home, was followed by 
a business meeting and luncheon. 

A number of committees were appointed 
for definite work. The membership and 
questionnaire committees will jointly make 
a survey of the slate; the budget committee 
will collect data for Dr. Andrews; and the 
committee on Icgi.sIation will watch out 
for opiKjrtunitics to foster bills on good 
label laws, honest label on clothing, domes- 
tic labor laws, and other bills.. 

The Utah Home Economics Association 
held its annual convention Thursday, I)cc. 
21, 1916, with the following program: 



East Side High School — Business Meeting; 
"Art in the Home," Ida M. Savage. 

Luncheon at Newhouse Hotel. 

Barratt Hall— "The Food Problem," 
Rena B. Maycock and Blanche Cooper; 
"Milk and Mentality," Fred W. Merrill, 
Dairy Expert. 

The Washington, D . C, Home Econom- 
ics Association is conducting a series of 
lectures and demonstrations relative to Home 
Economics extension work. 

Mr. 0. H. Benson, of the Department of 
Agriculture, in charge of the Boys' and 
Girls' Club \\'ork of the North and West, 
and Mr. George E. Farrell, of the same de- 
partment, have given explanations and 
demonstrations that have caused the associ- 
ation to consider organizing a city home 
caiming project. 

New England Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. Ine Section of Hospital Dietitians 
held a meeting at the New England Hospi- 
tal for Women and Children, Roxbury, 
October 26, Miss M. E. Reed acting as 
chairman. Dr. Edith Hill Swift discussed 
The Feeding of the Infant and the Child. 

The -Association held an informal dinner 
at the Boston Women's City Club, Novem- 
ber 17, at which Mrs. Ednah Rich Morse 
addressed the members and guests. 

The .Association regrets that the edition 
of the pamphlet on Feeding the Family of 
Small Income is out of print and will not 
be printed again. 

A Richards Day Celebration. The joint 
meeting of Massachusetts Institute of Tech- 
nology women and the New England Home 
Economics Association was held at the new 
Institute buildings in the Margaret Cheney 
and Emma Roger rooms. 

It is interesting to note that many women 
arc members of both associations, among 
them Miss Elliott and Dr. Blood of Sim- 
mons, Miss Hyams and Ntiss Kenny of 
Quincy Mansion School, Miss I.illie Smith 
of Brooklinc High School. 

The decorations of the room were simple — 
the green of pines that Mrs. Richards loved 



1917] 



KEWS FROM THE FIELD 



49 



so dearly, brightened with the red of the 
berries, the color of which she was so 
fond. 

About the rooms on cards 14 x 22 inches 
in size were quotations from her writings 
which brought her message to many again, 
perhaps a new message to some not familiar 
with her writings. These are as vital today 
as when she wrote them. The color scheme 
of "Tech" was used, the cardboard being 
gray and the printing red with the initial 
letter illuminated in gold. 

Two requests came asking for them as 
loans for exhibits. They are first to be put 
up in one of the suburban high schools and 
then in a suburban public library. There 
were also many photographs and prints tell- 
ing of Mrs. Richards life through the pictures. 
Miss Mary Barrows loaned some half tones 
from the book — Life of Ellen H. Richards. 

It was suggested that it might be worth 
while to get a group of pictures together that 
could be used throughout the country for 
such purposes as these were used, or for ex- 
hibits. 

Mrs. Lewis Kennedy Morse (Ednah Rich) 
spoke of the influence of Mrs. Richards' life 
on her work, and read some lines from Pro- 
fessor Palmer which aptly described it. 

Professor Sedgvnck spoke of her contribu- 
tions as a scientist, and her general knowl- 
edge of many subjects. This was the 
necessar>' outlook in the pioneer days when 
both she and President Rogers had the 
vision. Because they did not live in vain, 
but made their ideals a reality, specialists 
are needed today. 

All there felt that Mrs. Richards had been 
the intermediary between science and the 
home and had made them one. Her science 
she applied to the home and to the home- 
makers she gave the science. 

The National Special Aid Society is ar- 
ranging for "An Experience Meeting" to be 
held at the Hotel Astor, New York City, 
January 23, 1917. This will give a rare 
opportunity to listen to and to consult many 
well known experts from the United States 



Department of Agriculture, Yale University, 
Teachers' College, Milwaukee-Downer Col- 
lege, Pratt Institute, and various organiza- 
tions in or near New York. 

Money raised by this experience meeting 
will be used to carry on the work of the 
Home Economics Committee of the Society. 
Tickets at $2 may be obtained at the ofiice, 
259 Fifth Avenue. 

The Society is also announcing a course 
on Household Management to be given dur- 
ing Lent, Tuesdays and Fridays, at II a.m. 
Eight lectures, $5.00. 

During the fall there was given a course 
of twelve lectures on the art of spending. 
The topics of the lectures were: The Need 
for Wise Spending, Planning the Family 
Expenditure, Keeping Track of the Expen- 
diture, How to Select Textiles, Keeping the 
House Clean, Training the Child to Eat, 
Planning the Family Meals, Buying the 
Family Supplies, Labor-saving Devices, 
Beauty and Utility. 

Most of the lec^^urers were members of 
Pratt Institute and Teachers College facul- 
ties. 

Brief Notes. Miss Myrtle C. Van 
Deusen who received her A. M. degree from 
Columbia University last year is now head 
of the Home Economics Department at 
Milwaukee-Downer College. Other new 
members of the Department are: Miss 
Nell C. Fields, sewing and- dressmaking; 
Miss Sarah Porter, cookery and home nurs- 
ing. 

Miss Geraldine Hadley, president of the 
Home Economics Section, of the Indiana 
State Teachers Association, was formerly 
assistant professor of Home Economics in 
the State Agricultural College, North Da- 
kota and has become director of the New 
Lunch Room, and instructor in Institu- 
tional Management, in the Technical High 
School of Indianapolis. This school was or- 
ganized four years ago, with an enrollment 
of 180. There are now over 1500 students. 
With a most desirable location, and prop- 



50 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

erty including seventy-sLx acres, and the Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, of the Bureau of 

current interest in vocational education in Education expects to be at Rock Hill, S. C, 

the state, this high school has a prospect of January 15 to 22; at Montevallo, Ala., on 

becoming one of the leading high schools of January 25 and 26, and at Kansas City at 

its kind in the United States. the meeting of the N. E. A. on March 2. 



HOME ECONOMICS MEETING TO BE HELD IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
N. E. A., IN KANSAS CITY, MARCH 2, 1917 

Tentative Program 
The President, Dean Catherine MacKay, Iowa State College, presiding 

MORNING SESSION 

Greetings from the National Home Economics Association, by the President. Some 
Administrative Problems in Public School Home Economics Teaching, Mrs. Henrietta 
Calvin, Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C. Project Work in Teaching Home 
Economics — its Value and Limitations, Dean W. W. Charters, University of Missouri. 

The School Luncheon as a Project in Teaching Foods and Cookery in the Ele- 
mentary and High Schools, Miss Essie M. Hcyle, Supervisor, Kansas City; Mrs. Mary 
McBaker, Memphis Vocational High School; Miss Jenny Snow, Chicago Normal College. 

Basis of Choice of Projects in Clothing Courses in Elementary and High Schools, 
Miss Mabel Barbara Trilling, University of Minnesota. 

AFTERNOON SESSION 

Fundamental Inter-relation of Courses in Home Economics and Other High School 
Subjects, Miss Elizabeth Sprague, University of Kansas; Miss Josephine Berry, Uni- 
versity of Minnesota. 

Teaching the High School Students Their Responsibilities as Consumers, Miss Hilde- 
garde Kneeland, University of Missouri. 

A Consideration of the Subject Matter of Textiles as a Part in the Teaching of 
Clothing, Miss Anna Byers, Kansas City. 

Principles of Design in Relation to the Teaching of Clothing and House Furnish- 
ing, Miss Holman, Kansas State Agricultural College; Miss Ethelwyn Miller, University 
of Chicago. 

Mrs. Mary P. Van Zile, Chairman, 

Kansas State Agricultural College. 
Elizabeth Sprague, 

University of Kansas. 
Essie Margaret Hevle, 

Supervisor Household Arts, Kansas 
City, Mo. 

Program Committee. 



Vol. LX, No. 2 FEBRUARY, 1917 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Alice P. Norton. PJitor Kf.tl-rab E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel .A.vsa Barrows C. F. Lakcworthy Isabel Ely Lord KATHARi>fE Blunt 

Ex-Ojiicio .l/fm^fri— Catharine J. MacKay, President .•Vmerican Home Economics .\ssociation 
Emma H. Glnther, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler. Chairman Science Section 
Xeale S. Knowixs, Chairman E.Ttension Education Section 

Ccliihoratun — Tlie OlTicers, Members of the Council, and .Xdvisers 



CONTENTS 

P.\KT TiMF, Edit.vtion IX IIor.SKHoLi) .\rts CU'o Miirllaiid 51 

Tiu: "Penn" F.\Mir.Y Problem Ada Z. Fish 58 

Courses i\ Sewixc. for Elementary axd High School and Their Correlation with 

Drawixc, Martha II. French 61 

Correction 64 

Recent .\dvaxces in our Kxo\vled{;k of Dic.kstiox axd Absorption . . Louise Stanley 65 

The Home Economics Practice Housk at the Orec.ox .Vcrfculiural College . Ava B. Milam 71 

For the Homemaker 75 

Food AND THE Budget Helen Louise Johnson 75 

The Dasheen 81 

Has the Ice Blanket Any I'se? 84 

Students' Contributions 

A Comparison of Commercially Prepared and H(jme Prepared Luncheons .... 85 

Editorial •.' . 87 

Question Box 89 

Books and Literature 91 

Bibliography of Home Economics 93 

News from the Field 95 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by fhp American Home Economics .Association 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order. payat)le 
to ihe American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CH.\NGE IX ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
change is lo take etlect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 





Practice House, Oregon Agricultural College. (See j>aKe 71.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX FEBRUARY, 1917 No. 2 

PART TIME EDUCATION IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS^ 

CLEO MURTLAND 

A new note has been struck in education. It may have been sound- 
ing for some time past, but in the present world conflict attention has 
been directed to it so that laymen and educators alike recognize its 
purpose and its force. This new note is voiced in the press and in 
public speech as "education for service." Attention so long centered 
upon the personal career of the pupil is now bent upon education for the 
service w'nch each individual must render to human society. It is 
bigger thi the individual, or the family; than the state or the nation; 
it is world ;rvice. So deep has this thought been driven into the social 
consciousness of the people that cooperative measures in education, 
merely tolerated less than a decade ago, are today receiving the whole- 
hearted support of laymen, parents, social workers, employees, em- 
ployers, and educators — a combined force which, if wisely directed, 
augurs greater advancement in education in the next generation than 
has been known in past years. 

Education for service promises the most desirable development of 
the individual; hence the old ideal is merged into the new in a way 
which promises the best use of the old in the development of the n-^'w 
ideal. Education is, we believe, dedicated to flexibility which makes 
it possible to discover the service individuals may render, and to train 
them so that their talents may be utilized to their own satisfaction and 
the good of society. In this sense, we heartily approve of replacing 
the personal in education for the impersonal, altruistic ideal which 

* Address delivered before the Home Economics Session of the National Education Asso- 
ciation Convention, New York, July 4, 1916, 

51 



52 THE JOURNAL OF HOXfE ECONOMICS [February 

service to others implies. This spirit of education is to be welcomed in 
household arts education if it can eliminate the over-emphasis of the 
personal which has militated so strongly against its fullest success. 

Education for service follows so close upon the heels of the move- 
ment for education for all boys and all girls, whether rich or poor, well 
endowed or less fortunate mentally, physically fit or unfit, as to merge 
them into one. Service is altruism, not commercialism, in the light of 
tins interpretation. There are no longer any mental reservations in 
the statement "education for all." We all believe in it. There is no 
longer serious debate as to the inefficacy of one type of education for all. 
Individual HifTerences are recognized and education is being shaped to 
meet them as they become defined. 

Time is no longer wasted upon discussion as to whether the education 
of the boys and girls who enter the workshops, the stores, the factories, 
the ofiices, is completed when they have gained enough information to 
secure a position. Education beyond that which may be given in the 
schoolroom during the elementary school period, the high school period, 
and in all-day schools, no longer constitutes education according to 
modern standards. The workshop is being carried into the school and 
the *:hool into the workshop. The tearing down of school fences, so 
that the school may spread out into community life, and community 
activities may enter the school, opens up educational possibilities little 
dreamed of a decade ago. 

Having recognized different groups of people and worked out to 
some extent methods for educating them, as was shown in the varied 
program of this recent convention of the N. E. A., it remains for us to 
make education reach all the people and to spread it over as many 
years of their lives as possible; approximately from the ages of four to 
twenty- five years. 

Obviously this cannot be accomplished in the all-day school of any 
type. Too few of our boys and girls can be expected to attend school 
beyond the compulsory school age, ranging in the various states from 
twelve to sixteen years. 

For these young peoi)le a considerable part of their education must 
be secured after employment as wage-earners has begun. If the school 
may have the care and supervision of the education of young people to 
the age of sixteen, as seems likely, it can extend their general education 
ver}' measurably, and give them such preparation for entrance into 
wage-earning occupations as will enable them to understand the dc- 



1917] PART TIME EDUCATION IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 53 

mands of industrial and commercial life and guard themselves against 
exploitation. If the school is allowed the further privilege of recalling 
the pupils to the school or taking the school into the workshop, the 
home, or the store, for part-time education for a period of years, educa- 
tion for all will become a reality. Learning will not be incompatible 
with earning, as it has been under the old regime. 

Part-time instruction is the term used to designate types of instruc- 
tion, compulsory and non-compulsory, which are given to young per- 
sons who have left school to go to work. Part-time vocational courses, 
cooperative courses, and household arts courses, given on a part-time 
basis, are so classified, and are so discussed here. 

Who are to be taught the household arts? There is no disagree- 
ment among us as to the statement that all girls and women should 
be taught household arts as part of their general education. The 
problem is, When shall they be taught and how shall the instruction be 
given? 

The sauce-for-the-goose-sauce-for-the-gander method, which during 
the pioneer days of this form of education established a place for these 
subjects in the school curriculum, and brought recognition for them that 
has reached far beyond the schoolroom, will no longer meet the de- 
mands of the girls and women who throng the schools, the homes, and 
the workrooms. 

Household arts subjects are well estabHshed in the elementary and 
high school curricula. As general education they are meeting a great 
problem in the education of girls. There is room for improvement 
in methods of instruction and subject-matter. None realize this more 
than those engaged in the 'work, but like all elementary and high school 
education these subjects have been treated with an attitude of "com- 
pleted" when the diploma has been awarded and the learning period for 
many young people has closed. 

If the household arts — the arts of homemaking and housekeeping — 
are to reach their highest ideals and their fullest possibilities, they 
must go far beyond the instruction that may be given in the school- 
room to inexperienced young people. This early period of instruction 
should do one thing and do it so well that the after-effects would be 
inevitable. It should instill an interest in and intelligence about the 
problems of homemaking so thoroughly that the demand for further 
training in these subjects on a part-time basis after leaving the regular 
day school will follow when homekeeping becomes a definite responsi- 



54 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Febniai^' 

bility. The most effective learning results when the demand for knowl- 
edge is immediate. 

The most successful results in household arts instruction will be 
secured when the instruction can be put into daily practice in a real 
home. Much of this is accomplished through the use to which school 
children put the knowledge gained in class, when assisting the mother 
in the work of the home. But this, valuable as it is, is but a fraction 
of the problem of homemaking which is the vision of those engaged in 
household arts education. The greater part of the training must be 
given in connection with the home itself when homemaking problems 
become a reaUty. 

There are three fairly well defined groups to be reached by this part- 
time or after-school training: (1) the girls who remain in the home 
and assist in the household duties — girls who do not become wage-earners 
outside of the home; (2) girls who become wage-earners and are re- 
moved from any but incidental participation in household work, which 
under right conditions furnishes the best kind of training; and (3) 
women engaged as homemakers — the wives and mothers. 

Girls who remain in the home and assist in the duties of the home 
get, under right conditions, the most valuable training in homemaking. 
There are the daughters of the rich, however, who are receiving little 
instruction because servants take the responsibilities that the daughters 
of the poor take in the division of the labor of the household, hence they 
are receiving little if any instruction in the performance of home duties 
and frequently no experience in managing the household which is the 
housekeeping problem of the wife in the well-to-do household. 

On the other hand the daughters of the less well-to-do who remain 
in the home do not always have mothers who are progressive in their 
housekeeping methods. Many of these young women would profit 
greatly by part-time instruction in household arts related to the work 
which they do at home. This group represents an ideal situation for 
part-time instruction if teachers can get into sufficiently intimate rela- 
tions with the home life of the pupils. The instruction may be applied 
daily, and free hours for study may readily be arranged. This group 
is a large one in the many country districts and the small non-industrial 
towns of the country, and represents in the aggregate some thousands 
of girls and young women. 

The second group, those who go to work at wage-earning occupations 
which occupy the greater part of their time, is the most diflkult one to 



1917] PART TIME EDUCATION IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 55 

reach with part-time instruction, and their need for instruction in the 
theory and practice of household arts is perhaps most pressing, since 
they have practically no opportunity to pick up a knowledge of home- 
making during their hours at home. This group will not be reached 
with part-time instruction in the household arts, to any considerable 
extent, until legislation makes part-time school attendance compul- 
sory. Industry cannot be expected to pay for instruction which has no 
bearing upon the industrial efficiency of the workers. Part-time in- 
struction for this group should be of a vocational character — instruction 
which increases efficiency in the wage-earning work. That this sort of 
instruction has value to the industry has been proved in many in- 
stances, and industry may reasonably be expected to pay the pupils for 
the time spent in school on the part-time basis. If the industrial em- 
plo>Tnent is one which has bearing upon one of the household duties, 
it may serve both the wage-earning occupation and the home, but this 
possibility is too remote to permit of extensive planning of courses to 
this end. If any considerable number of wage-earning girls and women 
are to be reached with instruction in the household arts under non- 
compulsory conditions, it will be through the evening schools, which 
are already crowded with girls and women of ages ranging from seven- 
teen to seventy who are seeking assistance in some phase of household 
arts. 

The part-time class is preeminently suited to the housewife. She 
has immediate and pressing problems to be solved; she has abundant 
experience — oftentimes failures — to furnish the realistic situation that 
makes household arts more than vague theor>'; she has opportunity to 
put into practice the theories gathered through class instruction; and 
she usually has time during certain hours in the day to devote to the 
study of homemaking problems. Effort to get the housekeepers into 
the evening classes has been misdirected. Duties are often heaviest 
at the hour the evening classes begin. The afternoons and the morn- 
ings, when the noonday meal is not served in the home, offer the most 
convenient time for study for the housewife. 

The methods of instruction used are of as great importance in the 
success of the work as careful grouping of pupils. Teachers realize 
that the housewife cannot be expected to study with a group of im- 
mature girls; or inexperienced girls, with a group of housewives whose 
achievements far exceed theirs. They also realize that the greater ex- 
perience demands methods which closely approximate the best prac- 



56 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

tice in the well managed household, while the less experienced group 
must be taught details of practice and management that have become 
so well established with the experienced group as to become almost 
automatic in practice. 

If instruction in the household arts in these part-time courses, par- 
ticularly for the housewives or in evening class for the women who work 
all day, is successful, it must have what the small boy calls "pep." 

In the past the household arts teachers and leaders have held to the 
theory, unconsciously perhaps, that the home was wholly apart from 
the industrial and commercial life about us, that methods used in the 
workroom were not suited to the home even though adjustments in the 
workroom methods were made to suit the home. Instruction has been 
based upon old-fashioned and, in some instances, upon obsolete methods. 
The result has been, in many instances, much lower standards than the 
teachers anticipated, and disappointment to the pupils. 

There is no desire upon anyone's part, so far as I know, to commer- 
cialize the home, but the home must compete with industry in the pro- 
ductive work of the home which is duplicated in industry. For this 
reason it is true that household arts instruction will profit greatly by 
making use of right industrial methods. Except for plain mending and 
renovation, home dressmaking as such no longer exists. The woman 
who attends dressmaking courses in the evening schools or in part- 
time courses does so because she wishes to learn methods by which she 
can produce clothing of as good style and attractiveness as her neigh- 
bors and friends buy in the store, or secure from the dressmaker. She 
also wishes to learn time-saving methods in her work. Making over old 
gowns is done on the same basis. Mending has also become a commer- 
cialized art and when the housewife learns these arts, she compares 
her achievements with the commercial product in these lines. 

Dressmaking courses of the household arts t>'pe will accomplish their 
ends when they adopt commercial methods and commercial standards 
of work, and not the least of these will be the best use of time which 
makes home dressmaking a prolUablo occupation for the housewife, 
and not a means for proving that her time is of no value. 

Millinery courses should be given with trade standards as the ideal 
also. The housewife who wishes to make her own hats desires to have 
them as attractive and well-made as those of her neighbor who buys 
tlicm from the miiiijicr. 



1917] PART TIME EDTJCATIO::^ IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 57 

The making of the family budget which is coming to have a promi- 
nent place in courses for housewives is clearly a business method 
adapted to home problems. 

A great deal has been gained for the household through the com- 
mercial kitchen of the tea room and cafeteria. Through the hospital 
have come methods of eflEiciency and economy in sanitation of the 
home. Much of the value of spending in order to secure larger and more 
effective results in the household has come by the way of the com- 
mercialized household, which because of its demands was forced to 
take the venture denied the home until proof of the efficiency and 
economy was shown. 

The place which we call home, which is in large measure esprit dc 
corps and atmosphere rather than furniture and meals, whether simple 
or pretentious, cannot be marred by efficiency methods, if the right spirit 
exists in the household. Efficiency methods applied to the practice 
of the household arts leave more time to the housewife to practice 
true homemaking, the aim and ideal of household arts education. 
In so far as this is true the work of the home should draw from the busi- 
ness world for methods. The home and industry must be in harmony 
with each other in so far as they react upon each other, not at variance, 
if household arts instruction is to serve truly and effectively all women 
who become homemakers. 

Part-time courses in household arts are, for the rank and file of women, 
the ideal means for teaching these subjects. They furnish a means for 
prolonged study of the manifold and complex duties of the home. They 
promise to women, engaged in the office or the factory, a means for se- 
curing training for homemaking when that responsibility is assumed. 
If kept abreast of the best practice of the commercial world with which 
they must compete, instruction in the highest ideals of the home and 
in the household arts, may be taught to every woman readily and effec- 
tively, no matter what her occupation may have been before her 
marriage. 

Household arts education taught by this part-time method will de- 
mand teachers of broad social interest, women who can bend their 
scientific knowledge and specialized training to the development of 
education for service. The ideals of household arts education will 
remain high, but will be made suflSciently flexible to meet the needs of 
different groups of women and varying types of homes. A first-hand 



58 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

knowledge of home problems will constitute an important part of their 
training; the ability to meet the home making situations intelligently, 
and to impart instruction relative to them, will replace the formal 
methods we now have. Household arts education under this new 
order has its great opportunity. 



THE "PENN FAMH^Y" PROBLEM 

ADA Z. FISH 
WiUiam Penn High School, Philadelphia 

In the William Penn High School, the senior girls of the Art and Home 
Economics course study budget making as a part of the work given in 
the so-called home management class. An explanation of the term 
budget is followed by a general discussion of the need of such a system 
in the home. Recently the clearness of the explanation was questioned 
when several of the girls in a written test used the term "bugget." 

It seems a privilege to introduce Mrs. Richards to a group of girls 
who have never heard of her. Her ideal budget is discussed and the 
percentages represented graphically by means of the divisions of a circle. 
These percentages become the basis of our study and we build toward 
them, although we know they are impossible at the present time, espe- 
cially the 25 per cent allowed for food. 

An application of the principles of budget making is made by means 
of an imagmary family, consisting of five members. It seems appro- 
priate that this family should be named Penn and that historical facts 
should be used to give added interest to the problems. 

The "Penn Family" is determined as to the name, the age, and the 
sex of its members. Certain pupils are appointed to look up the his- 
tory of William Penn and his family. William Penn is always the father 
and thus far Hannah Callowhill Penn has been the mother. Gulielma 
Penn was really the first wife of William Penn but the girls prefer the 
simple name of the second wife. There is always a Letitia Penn who is 
supposedly one of the girls studying the problem. The other members 
of the family vary. At present there is a Richard Callowhill Penn. 



1917] THE "PENN family" PROBLEM 59 

Margaret Jasper Penn was a grandmother last year but now she is a 
baby one year old. 

William Penn has usually been a floor walker but now he is a clerk 
in a Life Insurance Company. The decision to change his occupation 
was largely due to the fact that he would receive a free luncheon, served 
in an attractive dining room, and under the supervision of a trained 
dietitian. 

William's salary is $1200. That is undoubtedly a higher income than 
is represented in the homes of many of our girls but we wish to keep the 
children in school and hold to certain standards of living. 

Each girl brings to the class definite data as regards a house she would 
like the "Penns" to live in. This need not be her own home nor even 
in the neighborhood where she lives. Some of the fathers go house- 
hunting with their daughters to fmd a house suitable for the "Penn 
Family." Lists of these houses are made in the note books as they are 
discussed and finally the location is settled by a vote of the class. The 
"Penns" are now living on Spencer Street and arc paying S21 per month 
for rent. William can walk to business during pleasant weather and 
Letitia and Richard are witliin easy walking distance of the schools 
which they attend. 

Operating expenses are taken up in a similar way. By this time the 
personal element enters in. "We have the same number of rooms, why 
do we burn so much more coal than Mary Smith's family?" "Why are 
our gas bills higher?" It takes some energy and tact to bring about an 
agreement as to what the "Penns" shall allow for operating expenses. 
Usually we are able to learn just what the family in the real house are 
spending. 

The clothing for each member of the family is worked out in detail; 
every girl is required to bring in her lists. The amounts are first com- 
pared and then usually the lowest one is taken to discuss and build 
upon. A year ago one of the girls brought in a budget for William's 
clothing amounting to $35 for a year. The rest of the class were very 
much amused but Evelyn said very forcibly, "It is possible, because my 
cousin's clothing only cost that much last year." It seems the cousin 
had left his home because of some difficulty with his parents. By means 
of his automobile, he was earning his way through college. Of course 
it was easy to understand that such a young man would have a goodly 
supply of clothing with which to start. 



(50 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

The food problem is handled by the teacher of dietetics. A com- 
mittee is appointed of which Hannah Penn is chairman. Each member 
of the committee presents menus for the meals of the "Penns" for a day. 
These menus are discussed and a decision is made as to which ones shall 
be prepared. The market order is then made out. The following day 
Hannah is given the money and she with her committee buys the food 
at the market. The teacher accompanies the class but Hannah is re- 
sponsible for the buying and for carrying the basket of food back to the 
school and taking the proper care of it. All three meals are prepared 
at one time. They are brought together and are discussed as to quality, 
quantity, and food requirement. The meals are served in good 
form, one of them in the dining room, using home service. William 
carves the meat, Hannah pours the tea, and Letitia serves the dessert. 
The cost and dietetic value of the meals are carefully worked out. In- 
terestmg comparisons are made between costs in the regular market and 
in the retail stores. The problem is repeated vrntil the meals for a week 
have been prepared. Their cost multiplied by fifty-two gives the ex- 
pense for food. Thirty-seven per cent of the income was used for food 
by the last class. 

In the question of the "higher life" we come face to face with the 
same problem that confronts the average family. With a salary of $1300, 
we were able to meet the requirements fairly well but with the salary of 
$1200, Richard must help. Now, he is earning $3 a week delivering flow- 
ers for a florist after school and on Saturday. This happens to be just 
what a boy, known to one of the girls, is earning. 

This problem also correlates with our house planning and furnishing 
that is taken up in the art class. An apartment is furnished in which 
Letitia is to begin housekeeping. The furnishings are in the form of a 
loan exhibit from a Department Store. The girls, with their teacher, 
study the furniture at the store and after a class discussion decide upon 
the various articles. The rugs belong to the school because the wear is 
naturally hard upon them. We can have, from the store, china, pictures, 
in fact anything we wish. Experts are appointed to lecture to the girls 
and every pos.sible courtesy e.xtcndcd. Everything is returned at the 
end of the year and the pioblem is worked out anew. 



1917] COURSES IN SEWING 61 

COURSES IN SEWING FOR ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOL 
AND THEIR CORRELATION WITH DRAWING 

MARTHA H. FRENCH 
Director Textiles and Clothing Department, State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Michigan 

Sewing in our schools for a long time meant the teaching of a few 
stitches and seams and the application of these to garments more or 
less simple. If a child had made the stitches on some little patches of 
cloth, models so-called, she was then ready to begin making simple 
articles and after these, garments of some kind. Progressive teachers 
are now beginning to realize that such teaching is but a small part of 
the broad training which should come under the head of sewing inthe 
grades and high schools. If our courses were spoken of as courses 
in clothing rather than in sewing it might give opportunity and inspira- 
tion for a broader treatment of the subject. Of course, any child must 
learn to sew by learning to do various stitches; but the reason for teach- 
ing the stitches on small patches of cloth and then, as is done in many 
schools, mounting these in books and grading them 65 or 90 per cent 
passes the comprehension of thinking mothers, and, I am happy to say, 
of thinking teachers. 

Clothing is a subject that can easily be brought into close correlation 
with almost every subject in a school curriculum; in fact it involves 
many subjects as a part of itself. Yet in many schools none of this 
interrelation is made evident, and the teaching of seams and garments 
is the sum total of the sewing courses; not even the materials and the 
cost form any part of the definite work. 

The history of clothing is as fascinating as it is profitable, and through 
its study we realize how fashions are influenced by the political condi- 
tions in a country. The history of a country, in its making, sways the 
fashions. 

Physics is related to the study of clothing since it is important in 
discussing protective power against heat, cold, and moisture, and in con- 
nection with mechanical apparatus, such as sewing machines, shears, 
irons, and mechanical testing devices. The examination of fabrics and 
textile fibers with the microscope involves optics. Chemistry is related 
through the action of cleaning reagents upon the various textile 
fibers and the chemical methods for testing textiles. Physiology 
and hygiene teach one what to wear in order that the body may be 



62 THE jounNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

properly protected and at the same time muscular movements, body 
development, and normal body functions be unrestricted. Languages 
may be useful for historical books on costume; but most necessary 
of all these subjects, and underlying all sewing, should be drawing 
and design. 

When there is no correlation with the art work three reasons usually 
explain this lack: first, the sewing teachers know so little of the 
principles and mediums of the artist that they cannot suggest correlation; 
second, the art teachers know so little of the principles and mediums used 
in sewing that they, in turn, cannot suggest means for unifying the 
work; and third, neither instructor is willing to make the necessary 
concessions to bring the two subjects closer together, nor does either 
care to give the time and effort required to develop successfully a series 
of lessons which shall be sequential both in sewing and in art. 

A few delinite suggestions may prove helpful in bringing these sub- 
jects nearer together. 

Because of the lower cost of installation, sewing instead of cooking 
is usually begun in the fifth grade; and, lest the child's interest be killed 
and her eyes and her nerve force be overtaxed, the problems must be 
extremely simple. They should touch so closely the life of the small 
worker that her zeal is keen to do well each stitch. 

The inspiration must vary with each class as the situation demands. 
It may be that to be making a gift for mother will suffice, or an article 
of use in the child's own life may give the keynote. Certain it is that 
there must be something to give zest if small children are to be trained 
to sew well and happily. 

Every article made by these children should be designed under the 
direction of the art teacher. For example, suppose in the fall, while 
each department is getting under way, a simple doily of India I'lnon be 
made. An inch hem is turned, basted, and chainstitched around the 
central square; the corners from the chainstitching to the edge are 
hemmed down, and the open ends of the hem are ovei handed. These 
very short spaces to sew aid in intense eflort for tiny stitches. Along 
with this work arc given suggestions as to attractive uses lot doilies; 
and the finished article is pressed and well wrapped as a gift for mother. 
Four of these may be made from one yard of material, and a ball of 
D. M. C. will chainstitch a great many. The cost is about 8 or 10 
cents, depending upon the quality of India linon, suggesting that dainti- 
ness may be had at small cost. 



1917] COURSES IN SEWING 63^ 

While this is in the process of constiuction the time in drawing may 
be utilized in designing the next article, a sewing bag, studying its pro- 
portion, and decoration; or an oval holder with block printed or sten- 
ciled design; a sewing apron with hnear design for feather stitching; 
sofa cushions with straight line designs for braiding with either soutache 
or coronation braid; or designs for applique figures for runners or 
cushions. 

Working drawings or pattern drawings may be made for silver cases, 
pencil holders, shoe bags, or paper and stnng bags, any of which are 
appropriate work for the early grades, and serve as excellent foundations 
for the study of lines, proportion, spacing, unity, color, and harmony. 

In the lower grades the sewing instructor rarely has access to sewing 
machines for her classes, and in consequence her plans must cover only 
such articles as can properly be done by hand, and this forbids long 
seams and tedious processes, but does not alter the possibilities for the 
study of design and color. 

In the seventh and eighth grades, if a whole or part of the year is 
given over to sewing, it is necessary to have sewing machines. At this 
age students are beginning to care for clothes, and it is a desirable time 
to teach something of the hygiene of clothing, as well as good taste and 
appropriateness in dress. The opportunities for the art teacher are 
now greatly increased, both through the age of the students and the 
class of articles to be made. 

To connect this with the previous art work and utilize principles 
already taught, underclothes may be planned with Hnear designs for 
feather stitching, either alone or in combination with other forms of 
embroidery; groupings for 'tucks and, if desirable for occasional use, 
more complicated patterns for setting in lace or embroidery insertion 
may be worked out. 

Simple house dresses and separate blouses may follow and with these 
the continuation of color studies, harmony of colors, the effect of lines, 
of spots of color, the placing of decorations in such a way that pleasing 
spaces may be kept. JMotifs for embroidery and conventional designs 
may be developed. IMany of the paintings of the old masters would 
give wonderful suggestions along this hne, and, at the same time, aid 
in familiarizing the students with these pictures. 

High school work in clothing will cover what has been suggested for 
seventh and eighth grades, if these grades do not sew, continuing further 
with a study of wool fabrics and the making of a wool skirt and sepa- 



($4 THE joimNAL or HOME ECONOiHcs [February 

rate waist, or a wool dress. The art department will give instruction 
in suitability of design and decoration to material; and of design, mate- 
rial, and color to figure. A silk shirtwaist, lawn dresses, simple and 
attractive, all give opportunities for study in art. 

In millinery, also a high school subject, the art department may aid 
in making the students observe with definiteness. How many women 
ever see a hat in inches? Surprisingly few can tell you wilh anything 
hke exactness the height of a hat crown or the width of a brim. 

We are not trained to take in detail rapidly. If the whole effect is 
pleasing and satisfying there should be a definite reason why, and the 
younger women, the women of tomorrow, should have a training in the 
principles of art that would answer the why. The Century Dictionary 
says art is "the exhibition of the power of perceiving the beautiful, and 
of expressing it in beautiful forms," and to the art and the clothing 
teachers working together be the fulfillment of this definition. 

Each department has, besides, its own problems to work out. In 
sewing, these problems are the care of clothing, including the cleaning 
and pressing of clothing and the proper airing of garments; the co.«^t and 
economic study of production of materials and ready-to-wear garments; 
labor laws, the Consumers* League, and other topics valuable to the 
consumer. 

For such a study of clothing surely no one will hesitate to grant 
educational value. We who teach sewing and beg for lecognition must 
prove our cause to be more than the making of garments, suitable and 
attractive, which is in itself something; we must add to this the real 
underlying principles that give educational value to our subject, by 
broader teaching. 

CORRECTION 

On page 637 of the December Journal, in the quotation of Ford 
and Pryor's work, the statement should read "These investigators con- 
sider it safest to boil the milk from 1 to 3 minutes" (not 10 to 30 
minutes as stated). 



1917] RECENT ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE OF DIGESTION 65 

RECENT ADVANCES IN OUR KNOWLEDGE OF DIGESTION 

AND ABSORPTION 

LOUISE STANLEY, PH.D. 
University of Missouri 

A review of the physiological h'terature of the last year brings to 
light many interesting and valuable additions to our knowledge of the 
conditions of digestion and absorption. Especially in the field of gas- 
tric digestion have there been important advances made. The greater 
portion of this work comes from Carlson and his students at Chicago 
working on a human subject with a gastric fistula, and with Pawlow 
dogs, and from the students of Rehfuss and Hawk at Jefferson Medical 
College, working on human subjects with the Rehfuss stomach tube. 

Carlson' reported last year the results of some very interesting work 
on Mr. F. V., a worker in his laboratory, with complete closure of the 
esophagus and a gastric fistula since the age of seven. This article was 
reviewed last year but we may briefly sum up his conclusions: (1) The 
fluid content of the empty stomach varies but the general average does 
not exceed 20 to 25 cc. (2) There is a continuous secretion in the 
empty stomach. (3) Chewing inert substances produces little effect on 
gastric secretion. (4) Secretion produced by seeing, smelling, or think- 
ing of food is slight and inconstant. (5) There is an increase on chew- 
ing and tasting palatable foods. (6) There is a direct relation between 
the palatability of food and the rate of secretion. (7) Latent period 
of the appetite secretion depends upon the condition of the gastric 
glands. In some cases there is no latent period. It varies also with 
the intensity of the appetite stimulation. 

In a later article^ Carlson gives the results of the continuation of the 
above e.xperiments with special emphasis on the composition of normal 
human gastric juice. His figures on the appetite juice are especially 
valuable because he was able to obtain samples unmixed with food or 
saliva. (1) The acidity when secreted above a certain minimum rate is 
practically constant — a total acidity of 0.5 per cent HCl. That se- 
creted at lower rate showed a lower total acidity and chlorides. (2) 
The normal acidity found equals the acidity reported in so-called cases 
of hyper-acidity. There seems to be no evidence that the stomach can 

•Carlson, A. J., Secretion of Gastric Juice in Man, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 37, (1915) p. 
50. See renew of article, Jourxal Home Economics, December, 1916, p. 631. 

' Carlson, A. J., Composition of Xormal Human Gastric Juice, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 38, 
(1915) p. 248. 



66 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

ever secrete more than this percentage of acid. The difficulty in cases 
of hyperacidity seems to be due to an upset of the mechanism for the 
neutralization of the excess of acid in the stomach rather than to a se- 
cretion of too much acid. (3) The high acid of the gastric juice is un- 
der ordinary circumstances neutralized by regurgitation of the alkaline 
fluid from the intestine. (4) Pepsin is always present in excess of the 
needs of normal digestion. 

Rehfuss' has devised a stomach tube which he is able to insert into 
the stomachs of human subjects and leave there for varying lengths of 
time without discomfort or irritation. The subjects, after swallowing 
this tube, are given test meals, and, by removing small amounts of the 
of stomach contents at five minute intervals, he is able to follow the 
curve of digestion. Hawk, Rehfuss, and others at the Jefferson Medical 
College have obtained much interesting data on the composition 
of normal gastric juice. A resume of this is found in the article 
cited above. They conclude: (1) the acidity of the pure secretion 
varies between 0.3 and 0.4 per cent of HCl instead of the 0.2 per 
cent of the clinicians. (2) There is a definite psychic secretion varying 
from sixty to eighty minutes, perhaps longer, if the stimulation is kept 
up. (3) There is no latent period. (4) The chemical secretion comes 
early in the first hour. (5) After the administration of atropine there 
is a reduction in both the quantity and acidity of the psychic secretion. 

The chief point of difTcrcnce in the results of Carlson and of Rehfuss 
and Hawk seems to be in regard to the percent of acid in the gastric juice 
when it is secreted. This can be ex-plained by the fact that Carlson 
worked on the unmixed juice, while under the Rehfuss method the tests 
were upon the mixed gastric contents. 

Talbot* used the technic of Rehfuss in determining the secretory curve 
of a number of normal individuals. He concludes that the contour cf a 
normal curve of gastric secretion depends upon (a) intensity and duration 
of appetite secretion induced by test meal, (b) amount of gastric mucus, 
(c) concentration of food secretion, and (d) emptying time of stomach. 

Rehfuss and Hawk and others' confirm Carlson's finding ihat the in- 
gestion of 0.5 per cent HCl is followed by a fall of acidity to about 0.2 
per cent due to the regurgitation from the small intestine. They 

* Rehfuss, M. K., The Normal Gastric Secretion, ArrKr. Phil. Soc, 55, (1916) p. 461. 

* Talbot, E. S., Jmtr. Amer. Mtd. Aisn., 66. (1916) pp. 1849-52. 

* Spencer, Meyer, Rehfuss and Hawk, Kflect of Duodenal Regurgitation on Gutric Func- 
tion, Amrr. Jour. Physiol., 39, (1916) p. 459. 



1917] RECENT ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE OE DIGESTION 67 

question Cannon's finding that free acid is necessary for the opening of 
the pylorus since the stomach emptied itself while the contents were 
still alkaline. The mechanism of duodenal regurgitation has been studied 
by Hicks and Visher." 

Investigating the therapeutic use of bitters as a stimulant to the 
secretion of gastric juice Moorhead/ working on animals, and Carlson' 
on human subjects as well as dogs, both conclude that bitters neither 
increase the pepsin nor the acid content of the gastric juice. Any value 
they may possess is, according to Carlson, due to psycho-therapy — 
"Medicine is potent in proportion to its bad taste." 

Saxl' in a study of carbohydrate fermentation in the stomach con- 
cludes that in a stomach with normal motility no fermentation takes 
place, even when living yeast cells are taken with the carbohydrate food. 
There is no difference in the degree of digestibility of bread raised by 
yeast and by baking powder, showing that digestion is not affected by 
the possible presence of unkilled yeast cells. 

Rogers and Hardt"' and Patterson" have studied hunger contractions. 
The former conclude that tasting acid, sugar, swallowing water, or 0.36 
per cent HCl in small quantities (10 to 25 cc.) does not inhibit muscular 
rhythm, while it immediately arrests hunger contractions. 

Optimum conditions for pepsin activity are discussed by Hamburger 
and Halpern.'2 Pepsin may be inactivated by the addition of salts. 
NaCl in concentration of 0.1 per cent accelerates the action of pepsin; 
neutral salts behave similarly. Alkaline salts are much more strongly 
inhibitive. HCl inhibits in concentrations of 0.7 to 0.9 per cent. 

Max\velP^ found that colloidal starch adsorbs pepsin. According to 
this author one of the most important functions of the ptyalin of the 
saliva is to hydrolyze the starch to non-colloidal forms. 

• Hicks and \isher, The Mechanism of the Regurgitation of Duodenal Contents into the 
Stomach, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 39, (1915) pp. 1-8. 

' Moorhead, Louis D., Jour. Pliarm., 7, (1915) pp. 577-589. 
» Carlson, A. J., Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 64, (1915) p. 15. 

• Saxl, Does Carbohydrate Fermentation Occur in the Normal Stomach? Wein Klin. 
Wochschr., 28, (1915) pp. 1135-36. 

"• Rogers and Hardt, The Relation Between the Digestive Contractions of the Filled and 
the Hunger Contractions of the Empty Stomach, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 38, (1915) p. 273. 

" Patterson, J. L., Comparative Studies in the Physiology of the Gastric Hunger Con- 
tractions in the Amphibia and Reptilia, Amer. Jour. Physiol, 40, (1916) p. 140. 

•'Hamburger and Halpem, Arch. Intern. Med., 18, (1916) pp. 228-234. 

" Maxwell, The Relation of Salivary to Gastric Digestion, Biochem. Jour., 9, (1915) pp. 
323-329. 



68 THE jouRNAX OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

There has been less work reported on salivary digestion. Gies" finds 
that acid saliva after filtration may be alkaline due to the separation of 
colloidal acid mucinate. This invalidates many conclusions formerly 
reported on the reaction of saliva since filtered saliva was so frequently 
used for the tests. Marshall'* discusses the relation of the reaction of 
saliva to dental caries. Halta'^ found that the salivary diastase content 
was not directly influenced by the kind of food. Tannic acid in small 
amounts inhibited the diastatic action of the saliva while sodium nuclein- 
ate magnified it tenfold when in a concentration of 1.5 f)er cent. Below 
this concentration there was no effect and above 3 per cent it inhibited 
action. More of the diastatic enzyme was found in the saliva secreted 
during chewing than in that spontaneously flowing into the mouth. 
Saliva secreted under the influence of citric acid was very high in dias- 
tatic power. 

In a study on the effect of excluding the pancreatic juice from the 
digestive tract, Pratt'^ finds a diminished absorption of nitrogen and fat, 
only 75 per cent of the nitrogen and 66 per cent of the fat being absorbed. 
Long and Hull'* in their experiments on the administration of ferments as 
remedies in disorders of digestion, using commercial digestive extracts 
kept under varying conditions, conclude that under the conditions 
normally present in the stomach a portion of an active tr>'psin is unim- 
paired by the action of pepsin and acid, and passes in the chyme. When 
the acidity is reduced in the intestine this produces a normal protein di- 
gestion. Commercial trypsin given by mouth should then be effective. 
Carlson" shows that when secretin is given by mouth it is destroyed be- 
fore reaching the blood and so is non-effective in stimulating the flow of 
the pancreatic juice. In greater concentration it is effective if injected 
intravenously, but the preparations at present are not pure enough for 
such use. 

Okada" finds the reaction of the bile varying from alkaline to acid. In 

'* Gics, W. J., An Interesting Fact Regarding the Reaction of Saliva with Phcnolphthal- 
ein, Jour. Allied Denial Soc, 11, (1916) pp. 273-274. 

"Marshall, J. H., An Acidmetric Study of the Saliva in the Relation to Diet and Carict, 
Dental Items of Interest, 38, (1916) pp. 116-127. 

'•Halta, Diastatic Action of Hunmn Saliva, Mitl. Med. Fak. Univ. Tokyo, 14, (1915) No. 
3. Chem. Ms., 10, p. 1679. 

" Pratt, Joseph N. Kflcct of Excluding the Pancreatic Juice from the Intestine on the 
Absorption of N. and Fat, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 40, (1916) p. 14<i. 

" Long, J. H., and Hull, Mary, Assumed Destruction of Tyrosin by Pepsin and Acid, 
Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 38, (1916) pp. 1620-1638. 

"Carlson, .\. J., Has Secretin a Therapeutic Value? Jour. Amer. .Med. Assn., 66, (1916) 
pp. 178-185. 

"OkAdA, Reaction of the Bile, Jow. Phytiol., 50, (1915) pp. Ui-llt. 



1917] RECENT ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE OF DIGESTION 69 

fasting animals the acidity is higher than after feeding; various kinds of 
food had no influence on the acidity. Rogers-' found that bile modifies 
the intestinal flora by favoring the development of certain bacteria, such 
as B. coli, at the expense of certain others, notably anaerobic organisms 
which are the most important factors in toxicity and putrefaction. Of 
still greater importance is the fact that it diminishes the production and 
action of bacterial enzjones and neutralizes the intestinal toxins. 

Gurewich" made a study of the intestinal digestion in a person seven 
months after 157 cm. of the ilium had been removed. He found that 
only 52 per cent of the nitrogen was assimilated and the fats were but 
partially digested. The patient was gaining in weight in spite of a 
persistent diarrhoea. 

Higgins" determined the time elapsing before alcohol and sugars may 
be utilized by a study of the respirator)^ quotient. He flnds: (1) Alco- 
hol begins to be burned in appreciable quantities in from five to eleven 
minutes after taking. With some subjects the combustion began sooner 
than with others. (2) Sucrose, lactose, and levulose begin to be burned 
quite as soon as alcohol if not sooner. (3) Glucose and maltose are not 
utilized as soon as the other sugars or alcohol. Approximately twenty 
to thirty minutes elapse before their combustion plays an important 
part in metabolism. 

During 1915 there were two researches reported on the comparative 
digestion and absorption of fats. Langworthy and Holmes" conclude 
from a series of experiments on animal fats that fats of as low or lower 
melting point than that of the body fat are capable of more complete 
assimilation than those of higher melting point. These experiments are 
being continued on many different kinds of fat. Hawk and his co- 
worker" show that hydrogenated fats are as satisfactorily digested and 
utilized as the natural fats. (See also work reported on fat in Bibliog- 
raphy of July Journal, p. 399.) This conclusion has been supported 

"Rogers, The Anti-Putrefactive Role of the Bile, Ann. Inst. Pasteur, 29, (1915) pp. 
545-550. Abs. Chem. Abs., 10, p. 1050. 

" Gurewich, Intestinal Digestion in Man ,\fter the Excision of a Large Part of the Lower 
Intestine, Abs. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 65, p. 2128. 

" Higgins, H. L., Rapidity with which .Alcohol and Some Sugars may Serve as Nutri- 
ment, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 46, (1916) pp. 258-265. 

»• Langworthy and Holmes, Digestibility of Some Animal Fats, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 
310 (1915). 

» Smith, Miller and Hawk, Studies on the Relative Digestibility and Utilization by 
the Human Body of Hydrogenated Fats, Jour. Biol. Chem., 23, (1915) pp. 505-511. 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS [February 

by various investigators abroad. This is important in view of the in- 
creasing use of the hydrogenated fats as food. Carlson and some of his 
co-workers'* determined the utilization of glucose by white rats. They 
found they grew well when this was added in large amounts. A post 
mortem examination revealed no lesions that could be traced to glucose. 
There seems to be no reason why commercial glucose should not be used 
as food. 

Blake" worked upon the chemical composition and digestibility of 
bread. He could find by means of the polariscope no reason for the 
greater palatability of homemade bread. It would seem that under 
physiological conditions most of the amyloses are changed to dextrine in 
the mouth and these dextrines and most of the amylopectin and its 
products of hydrolysis are digested in the stomach. The amylocellulose 
is mostly digested in the intestine. Stale bread digests very slowly un- 
less its gluten is completely broken down. 

Langworthy and Holmes^* in a study of irimature veal find that it 
is quite as well digested and absorbed as other meat. The old idea of 
the indigestibility of very young veal is apparently only a prejudice and 
entirely unwarranted. The same authors-^ fmd that when the hard pal- 
ates of cattle are ground and made into beef loaves about 86.8 of the 
nitrogen is utilized. This is somewhat less efficient utilization than in 
the case of other meats but more efiicient than in the case of the nitro- 
gen from vegetable foods. 

Bateman'° has published some interesting results upon the digestion 
of egg-white. He found that raw eggwhite in any large quantity may 
cause diarrhoea in dogs, cags, rabbits, and man. It is utilized only to 
the extent of 50 to 75 per cent. After several days subjects acquire a 
certain tolerance so that its utilization is improved and it no longer 
causes diarrhoea. Eggv^hite may be made more digestible by coagula- 
tion by heat, by precipitation with alcohol, or by treatment witli chloro- 
form, ether, acids, alkalies, or pepsin. Egg yolk cither raw or cooked is 
excellently utilized. 

"Carlson, Hektoen, and Le Count, Effects of Commercial Glucose when Fed to White 
Rats, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 38, (1916) pp. 930-936. 

" Blake, J. C, DiReslibility of Kread, Jour. Amrr. Clum. Soc, 38, (1916) pp. 1243-1260. 

"langworthy and Holmes, Digestibility of Very Young Veal, Jour. A/^r. Research, 6, 
(1916) pp. .S77-588. 

"Langworthy and Holinci, Digestibility of Hard Palates of Cattle, Jour. Agr. Research, 
6, (1916) pp. 628-6-n. 

*» Hatcman. The Digestibility and Utilization of Egg Protein, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916) 
pp. 263-291. 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS PRACTICE HOUSE 71 

THE HOME ECONOMICS PRACTICE HOUSE AT THE 
OREGON AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 

AVA B. MILAM 
Head of Flome Economics Department 

In June, 1916, the School of Home Economics of the Oregon Agricul- 
tural College added to its curriculum a Practice House course offered 
as an elective subject (§ credit per week) for juniors and seniors. 

Each student electing this course spends six weeks in the Practice 
House, and while there is expected to carry not more than 14 additional 
credits, making her total registration 17 credits for the entire semester. 

Changes in the personnel of the house are made every three weeks, 
so that no more than five or six new students assume their duties at one 
time. The change of instructors is made at a time when all the stu- 
dents are familiar with the household duties. 

The course is conducted by six members of the Domestic Science 
stafif, who serve in the capacity of resident instructor for a period of 
from four to eight weeks each. This temporary arrangement was con- 
sidered advisable for the first year, and the most significant result 
hoped from such a plan was more thorough acquaintance and interest, 
on the part of the department as a whole, with the problems of the 
course, and, therefore, better solutions to these problems. The plan 
to have one instructor (preferably one who has had experience in the 
house) in charge of the course during the subsequent years was put in 
operation in September, 1916. 

The building is not owned by the college but leased with an option 
to buy. The Domestic Science Department pays a yearly rental of 
$360, $50 for taxes, and $50 for the upkeep of lawn. College rates are 
obtained for electricity, water, and lights. The college has spent 
$325 in the purchasing of single beds, bedding, towels, dining room 
furniture, and kitchen range. Some of the furnishings were left in the 
house by the owner. The living room was furnished with rugs, wicker 
chairs, settees, and table, presented by the Oregon Commission of the 
Panama Pacific International Exposition as a token of appreciation for 
the work of the young women of the Domestic Science Department of 
the college in conducting a lunch room in the Oregon Building during 
the Exposition. The kitchen has a wood and an electric range, and the 
laundry a water motor washer, electric irons, ajid the necessary equip- 
ment of a modern home laundry. 



72 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



FIRST FLOOR 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
PRACTICE HOUSE 




^iCCONO FLOOR 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
PRACTICE HOUSE 




1917] HOKE ECO?TOMICS PRACTICE HOUSE 73 

It is hoped that the college will purchase the house in perhaps two 
years and at that time a few changes will be made, namely: the wall 
between the breakfast room and kitchen will be taken out, giving us 
the larger kitchen, that we need. The large attic will be converted 
into a sleeping room by putting in dormer windows and changing it 
slightly. This will make it possible for the rooms on the second floor 
to be used for dressing rooms and study rooms. 

Each of the eleven students in the house is charged $5 per week. 
No charges are made to the instructor. The house is entirely self- 
supporting. Thirty-three cents per day per individual is allowed for 
food material, thirty-five cents for each dinner guest, and twenty-five 
cents for each breakfast and luncheon guest. Many staples are bought 
in as large quantities as should be bought in the average home where 
economy is considered. The other materials are purchased by the in- 
dividual managers, who pay cash and take receipts, so that accounts are 
kept with little difficulty. At the end of each manager's regime, her 
account is submitted to the instructor in charge and an inventory is 
taken which is handed on to the subsequent manager. So far, all but 
one manager has kept well within the amount allowed for food material. 

The following outline indicates the division of the work: 

Hostess and manager. Superintends the house, holding each girl 
responsible for her special duties. Plans all meals, does all the buying, 
and pays all the bills. 

Cook. Assists the manager with planning all meals and does the 
cooking. Cares for the kitchen, kitchen closets, and refrigerator. 

Assistant cook. Assists the cook, sets table for meals and prepares 
the dishes for dishwasher after meals. Washes dishes on wash days. 

First maid. Cares for the dining room, living room, and front stairs. 
The floors are wiped twice a day. She is also responsible for the fire in 
the fireplace. 

Second maid. Sweeps the walk, porches, pergola, and basement 
stairs. Cares for the furnace and basement. Serves the meals. 

First chamber maid. Cares for two west bedrooms, upstairs hall, 
and back stairway. Assumes the duty of an assistant laundress on 
wash days. 

Second chamber maid. Cares for east bedroom, faculty member's 
room, and the bath. Assumes the duty of third assistant laundress on 
wash days. 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Bead laundress. Gathers and sorts clothes. (The laundry consists 
of first and second cooks' personal laundry, table linen, doilies, and 
pillow cases. This gives the students practice in home laundry prob- 
lems. The sheets, hand, bath, and dish towels are sent out.) Superin- 
tends washing, assisting with the work. Keeps the linen in order. 

First assistant laundress. Assists head laundress. Wipes dishes 
every day except wash day. 

Dislnvasher. Washes dishes every day. 

General helper. Cares for down stairs bedroom. Renders assistance 
wherever needed. Takes care of attic. 

These positions are held for a period of five days. Each student, 
as far as possible, advances from the least important to the most im- 
portant position. Each student is expected to hold the position as 
hostess and manager, either cook or assistant cook, first maid or general 
helper, second maid, first or second cham.ber maid, head laundress or 
first assistant laundress, and dishwasher. E.^.ch student assumes her 
duty immediately after breakfast on the day of her appointment. 

The following quotation from the student paper indicates the general 
attitude of the students who have taken advantage of this course: 

No domestic science senior student can aflord to miss this course. It is 
a test and seal on the work of tlie three previous years. Her returns from 
this course are manifold; she learns cooperation in working with others; she 
develops confidence and ingenuity; promptness is forced upon her, for meaU 
must be served on scheduled time. Besides this and the general knowledge 
of how to manage a home, she learns to know what she herself knows and is 
brought to realize her own capacity. There is a social life present in the house 
unlike any other obtained in college life. The students of the house say in 
unison, "You cannot afford to miss it, for it is certainly worth while." 

This course is proving to be one of the most popular and valuable 
courses in the school. It is giving not only valuable experience to the 
young women who are electing the work, but it is affording the Domes- 
tic Science stafT an excellent opportunity to come in closer personal 
contact with the students, from which much is to be gained. Through 
this course the department is better able to estimate the girl's ability 
to apply her knowledge in a practical way, to manage, to cooperate, 
and to meet emergencies; her judgment, honesty of purpose, and ideals 
can be judged much more fairly than is possible from her record iu any 
other couri>e in the school. 



FOR THE HOMEiMAKER 

FOOD AND THE BUDGET 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 

Something over sixteen years ago there was published the first edition 
of Mrs. Ellen H. Richards' book on The Cost of Living. It begins with 
statements concerning the prevailing high cost of household necessities, 
and the great waste daily occurring in the individual homes of this 
country. 

In the discussion of the adjustment of family budgets, this statement 
is made: 

From the examination of various budgets and from observation of many 
families, as well as from twenty-five years' experience in housekeeping, I am 
convinced that the tendency to extravagance in the American household 
comes in the two columns of food and operating expenses. In food I believe 
the trouble is largely one of waste. 

Nearly every year since 1900 there has been more or less public dis- 
cussion of the increasing price of various household commodities, food 
stuffs usually being the center of attack. During the fall of 1916 this 
matter of the high cost of living had reached a sufficiently acute stage to 
cause considerable agitation, and to have drastic remedies suggested 
and applied, among them the unintelligent method of the boycott. 
For no one can possibly argue that a boycott either educates or influences 
the primary cause of any effect. It is a method of punishment or 
intimidation, and may or may not reach the actual offenders. 

The prices of other necessities such as coal, paper, shoes, ink, and so 
forth, have risen, but no one talks of boycotting these things. Yet an 
actual pre-concerted plan was put in motion throughout certain parts 
of the country to secure united action in boycotting eggs, butter, meat, 
and other foods in their turn. There is no far-reaching effect in a boy- 
cott, and it is open to question whether this action influenced prices 
in any way. The natural economic laws relating to supply and de- 

n 



76 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

mand would produce the same result as a spectacular boycott adver- 
tising a campaign which many cannot believe was designed for the 
ultimate benefit of the consumer. 

It is to be remembered that all eggs put in storage in April must be 
on the market in December, for no cold storage eggs can be sold after 
the time limit of eight months has been reached. A few years ago when 
eggs were boycotted in Philadelphia it was believed to have been done 
in behalf of the cold storage men, who were caught at the expiration 
of the time limit with a large supply of eggs on their hands. The 
advertising campaign of a city-wide boycott and a dropping of price 
unloaded these eggs as the purely normal demand could not have done. 
It may be possible that the producers themselves have been behind 
the boycott. Under any circumstance the condition demands study 
rather than advertising. The causes of inflated prices should be 
analyzed. 

To the situation of abnormal demand caused by the war, and an 
actual decrease in the production of certain staple food stuffs, there 
has been added a condition of railroad transportation which of necessity 
affects cost. And in place of a feverish agitation, or a publicity campaign 
that affords excuse for a wholly unnecessary rise in the prices of many 
things, there should be an intelligent survey of the facts, in the hope 
of discovering a possible removal of undue causes, rather than an allevia- 
tion of symptoms which will break out again and again. 

There has been a widespread demand that someone do something, 
as well as that the government investigate. The Federal Trade Com- 
mission has been mentioned as the proper body to carry on such a move- 
ment, while meantime various states have been trying to round up sus- 
pected offenders in cornering the market for undue profits. And, as 
usual — because of its large membership and well-known Influence, among 
the first organizations approached is the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs. 

Before definite action is taken by any organization whose membership 
and methods are such as to influence and modify public opinion, the 
situation should be clearly defined, its factors recognized and its causes 
discovered. To apply a cure to symptoms is neither far-reaching nor 
intelligent. To continue agitation is but to add to high prices by a 
well sustained advertising method. And employing expensive com- 
missions to investigate has as yet not been shown to be successful in 
regulating prices. 



1917] FOOD AND THE BUDGET 77 

As a matter of fact there is no one single cause that has produced the 
present high cost of living, unless we can ascribe it to the general and 
unprecedented prosperity of the country. Even that must be analyzed 
if we are to comprehend its reasons for being and the ultimate results. 
There are immediate and unavoidable reasons for the increased prices 
of many commodities. There are some less recognized avoidable ones. 
But we are not going to find a cure in prosecuting trusts or individuals, 
in boycotting any producer or his product, or in costly attempts to do 
away with the needed middleman. We can find it only in the very 
difficult and much slower process of education, for the fundamental 
underlying cause of the condition is the wasteful, unintelligent, or 
uneducated procedure in each individual home. 

As a matter of fact W'e would have very little need to worry over the 
high cost of living if each of us based her own hving upon her own needs 
and the needs of her family rather than upon their wants. For one of the 
great contributory factors in the present situation is the rapid increase 
of extravagant w^ants with the too sudden prosperity occurring when 
wages have been quickly raised, and every man can have a job if he will 
take it. 

The questions to be asked and answered are three. First: Are the 
newspapers stating the actual facts relating to increased prices, or is it a 
well-planned publicity campaign having increased profits as its ultimate 
purpose? If this is answered in the affirmative, and it is acknowledged 
that the items of food, clothing, and shelter have so risen in price as to 
make living very difllcult for those whose incomes have not increased, 
then the second question arises. What are the underlying causes of this 
increased cost and price? . 

At this particular time it is most needful that all consumers, men and 
women alike, should clearly define the difi'erence between cost, price, 
and value. It is failure to do this that not alone adds to cost, but in- 
creases prices. If we today were all talking about the decreasing 
purchasing power of the dollar rather than the high cost of living, there 
would be a positive gain in clearing our mental vision toward the un- 
desirable result of that which, in some degree at least, can be classed 
as gossip. 

If, on the other hand, we could definitely ascertain that the high cost 
and increased prices have been vastly exaggerated, we might be induced 
to make more quickly those adjustments which would relieve the situa. 
tion at least in part. 



78 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Concisely stated, the three questions are as follows: Have the prices 
of food stuffs risen unduly? What has caused this condition? What 
can be done about it? And the first must be answered by the con- 
sumer rather than any food official or commission, state or national. 

It takes but a cursory survey of the winter quarterly of a large and 
well-known retail grocery house to establish without question that 
while there has been a spectacular advance in meat, eggs, butter, flour, 
sugar, and some few other things, there has been a well delined, if limited 
increase, in the prices of certain food articles, while others remain the 
same. Tea, chocolate, and cocoa are quoted at exactly the same prices 
given in 1915-1916. Coffee has varied so little as to warrant the state- 
ment that it costs no more. The products manufactured from flour, 
such as macaroni and crackers, and many farinaceous foods, rice, hominy, 
oatmeal, and others, have risen in peculiar ways. The finest head rice 
is quoted both years at nine cents a pound, while another kind has 
increased a cent a pound, yet the remaining brands are unchanged in 
price. Macaroni and spaghetti have increased from one to three cents 
a package, while some brands of hominy remain the same, and others 
have risen three cents on a three pound package. Some breakfast 
cereals have advanced a cent a package, some two, some three, four, 
and five. 

The canned soups show strange vagaries in price, one firm increasing 
the price of certain kinds from $3.35 to $3.60 a dozen cans, while of 
others, in which chicken stock figures the price is reduced from $3.75 
to $3.60 a dozen. Sundry other soups remain exactly the same, while 
different brands of tomato soup have increased from six to ten cents on 
the dozen. 

The quotations for hams, bacon, and sausage are from three to six 
cents more a pound, depending upon the brand. Canned meats ha\t 
increased from six to twenty cents a can; fish from ten cents a kit to 
four cents a tin, salmon being two cents more a tin for each size. Then 
this strange thing occurs. One good brand of American canned vege- 
tables has not changed in price, while the next quoted has increased 
from three to five cents a can. Some firms quote but a limited variety 
of vegetables in place of the usual number, and all corn and beans 
show a considerable advance in price. 

A close study of canned and preserved fruits reveals queer things. 
Take apple butter: one firm quotes forty cents a pound both years, the 
lecond thirty-two cents last year, forty this. Canned black-berries 



19171 FOOD AND THE BUDGET 79 

and blue-berries are the same, while peaches rose twenty-five cents a 
dozen cans on nearly every brand. On the other hand, the fruits canned 
and preserved in glass by women who have established reputations in 
this work have not changed in price, and the same is true of two well- 
known firms whose goods retail grocers handle. 

However, because one firm has increased the price on an output of 
preserved fruit and another does not, should not be taken as an 
indication of a desire for highway robbery by the first firm. There are 
certain established facts which must be recognized before any one is 
justified in making accusations, or in trying to force prices by methods 
that can only be adopted by the few. 

Some of the facts are that there was actually a considerable decrease 
in the production of certain food materials this last year, while there was 
a very great demand upon our supply. This argument at once brings 
out the suggested remedy of an embargo on food stuH's without question- 
ing as to whether the government, with due consideration to our neu- 
trality, can any more prohibit food sales than those of munitions. No 
other one thing so needs to be said again and again, and yet again, as that 
we must look before we leap, not alone at the distance we are trying to 
cover, but why it is desired that we act at all. 

The present agitation over the high cost of living, egg boycotts, and 
frenzied methods of immediate cure for a situation which has to do 
with all the intricacies of the industrial conditions, made acute and 
difficult by the war, is only adding to prices without remedying matters 
in the least. And it is affording the desired opportunity for many things. 

But what is to be done about it? Here are a large number of families 
living on salaries which have not increased. Wages have, and with 
the full dinner pail has always come an increased price for that which 
fills it. But thousands of us, clerks, teachers, professors, stenographers, 
and others, are caught between the upper millstone of prosperity prices, 
and the nether one of a fixed income. 

Given $2500 and a family of five, in 1915, 31.2 per cent of the income 
sufficed for food. This left 68.8 per cent, or SI 720, for the other four 
divisions of the budget. Today the $15 a week does not suffice, and 
$18, or $936 a year (37.44 per cent), is being used, leaving but $1564 for 
the other needs. What is to be done? 

There is but one thing to be done, and that is to learn hov/ to choose, 
to buy for nutrition instead of for the palate, and to feed the family 
for efficiency in place of mere pleasure. If may not be easy, but it is 



80 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

necessary and right. Adequate, nourishing food is still to be found for 
$15 a week for a family of five, but it has to be intelligently, carefully 
purchased, and prepared and cooked in good, wholesome ways. 

It is trite to say that women are the consumers, but it should be re- 
peated until all realize what that statement means and implies. There 
are few American women today who do not hold and disburse the house- 
hold funds, buying such food, clothing, and shelter as the income is able 
to provide. There are some who control the entire expenditures for 
the family, and many who have a share at least in planning what shall 
be done. And of all these thousands there are comparatively few who 
realize that consumption is a business based on business principles and 
procedure in exactly the same way that production is. 

The buyer of any line of goods for a retail or wholesale house could 
not hold his position a week if he knew as little concerning the actual 
business of buying as the average housekeeper knows about the providing 
of household necessities. This is not the time for agitation. It is the 
time to seriously study the situation both in our individual and com- 
munity procedure. It is the time to realize that the students of eco- 
nomics continually bring in the verdict of "waste" when the procedure 
of the American household is tried at the bar of justice. We cannot 
control the country's waste except by teaching and practising, all over 
this land, that thrift which is wise use in the home. 

If the women's clubs all over the country would unite with, let us 
say, the Federal Departments of Agriculture and Labor, and the American 
Home Economics Association, in a delinite study of the factors that 
control the transportation, distribution, sale and use of our food supplies, 
with the end in view of publishing an actual report of the exact con- 
ditions, an undoubted and very great service would be rendered our 
homes. But it should be a carefully planned and properly organized 
survey, to which all sides contribute testimony, and this means that the 
consumer herself would have to study her methods of buying and use 
and be willing to acknowledge her shortcomings, as well as to be ready 
to learn new ways. The "woman who spends" is not the only respon- 
sible person but she is one of the group, and producers, distributors, 
consumers, and ofTicials should get together to learn the facts and dis- 
cuss ways and means. 



1917] 



THE DASHEEN 



81 



THE DASHEEN 

Many departments of the United States (jovernment are interested 
in developing new varieties of foods, or in promoting the introduction 
of foods into new places. 

The Bureau of Plant Industry has lately reissued some directions for 
the use of a vegetable that seems well adapted to cultivation in the 
southern part of the United States. 

The dasheen is used as a staple food by millions of people in tropical 
and subtropical countries. The plant furnishes long spherical corms, 




A hill of dasheens. The large central CORM, with part of 
leaf stems still attached, is surrounded by the TUBERS, just 
as they grow. 

and large tubers, both of which may be used. The flesh is somewhat 
gray or violet in color when cooked. It resembles the potato in many 
respects though it has a delicate flavor of its own. 

The question has risen whether increased cultivation of the dasheen 
might bring it into direct competition with the potato, but this seems 



•82 THE jotTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fFcbniary 

improbable since it is grown only in the south and therefore can hardly 
actually compete in price with one of a similar nature that is grown 
successfully in practically all parts of the country. 

It seems probable, though, that, as the cultivation of the dasheen 
is extended, and it comes to be generally known, so that the increased 
consumption will further stimulate production, the price will fall mate- 
rially. While the prices which growers receive are not now exorbitant, 
the fact that the dasheen is shipped north in comparatively small quanti- 
ties, and appears on the market as a novelty, has resulted in the retail 
price everywhere being kept at a comparatively high level, usually 
between 10 and 15 cents a pound. The dasheen contains considerably 
less water than the potato, and a correspondingly higher proportion of 
actual food, and this should always be borne in mind in comparing the 
costs of the two vegetables. 

One of the principal points claimed for the dasheen is that it adds 
another delicious vegetable to that very small class of starchy ones to 
which it belongs. For certain purposes, it is even more useful than 
the potato, while for others, the potato will be preferred. While some 
persons may never care for it, there are others who become very fond 
of it who do not care for the white potato. 

The following rules are given in the leaflet issued by the Bureau of 
Plant Industry. 

BAKED DASHEENS 

Dasheens, large or small, may be baked like potatoes in a quick oven. If 
not already thoroughly cleaned they should first be rubbed or scrubbed to 
remove the loose fiber from the skin. Small dasheens may be scraped before 
baking, as they are then more convenient for eating, and the soft crust which 
forms around them is particularly delicious. Rubbing these scraped dasheens 
with fat before baking will improve them, or they may be roasted with meat. 
Large corms should be parboiled for 10 to 20 minutes before baking, and may 
be cut in lialf either before or after the boiling. The total time required for 
cooking is a little less than for potatoes of the same size. Baked dasheens 
should be served immediately when done. 

Note. — ^^'hcn uncooked dasheens arc scraped they should be handled in water to whidi 
a level teaspoonful of «xJium carbonate (washing sotla or sal soda) to the quart has been 
added, as the juice of the outer layer of the raw dasheen contains an irritant that, when 
mixed with water, causes the hands of many persons to sling. This prop>erty is destroyed 
by cooking, the cooked daahccD being as bland as a potato and of a plcaaant nutty flavor. 



1917] THE DASHEEN 83 

BOILED DASHEENS 

Large dasheens (corms) are preferable for boiling, though small ones (tubers) 
may also be used. They should always be boiled in the skins and may be 
served thus or with the skins removed. Dasheens do not require quite so 
long boiUng as potatoes of the same size. 

In the case of small tubers they are especially good if, after peeUng, they 
are placed in the oven just long enough to melt over them a dressing of butter. 
When so prepared they can usually be kept standing in a warm place for 
a short time without becoming soggy. Instead of placing them in the oven 
the tubers may be fried shghtly, either whole or in halves. 

RICED DASHEENS 

Boil (or parboil and bake) the dasheens in their skins. Remove the skin 
immediately, rice the dasheen into a heated dish, and proceed in one of the 
following ways: 

(1) Stir in the desired seasoning, as butter and salt, and serve in a warm, 
covered dish. The butter may be omitted if gravy is to be used. 

Milk or cream may be beaten in if desired, as for mashed potato, but 
dasheens prepared in this way will be rather sticky and some will prefer to 
omit the milk or cream, or at least to use only a little. Mashing in the ordi- 
nary way is not recommended. 

(2) Empty in layers into a warmed serving dish, seasoning each layer and 
omitting the stirring. 

(3) Season the riced dasheen as desired and put into a baking dish, with a 
hberal quantity of butter on top. Bake for 8 or 10 minutes and serve. 

SCALLOPED DASHEENS 

Pare and slice raw dasheens, putting the sUces in layers into a buttered 
baking dish, and season each layer with butter, salt, etc. Lattice-work slices, 
made with a fluted slicer, are a little more attractive in appearance than the 
plain ones, and they do not mat together. Nearly cover with rich milk and 
bake. Only about two- thirds as much time is required in cooking as for 
scalloping potatoes. If the corm is used it is well to discard about three- 
quarters of an inch of the upper or bud end, as it may be tough after cooking. 
Onion seasoning brings out the dasheen flavor. 

DASHEEN CRISPS 

Dasheen crisps are especially recommended. They are made by cutting 
the raw dasheens into lattice-work slices, as for scalloped dasheens, or into 
fluted slices, and fr)ing slowiy to a light brown in deep fat. 



84 THE JOUBNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

DASHEEN SALAD 

Boil medium sized or small dasheens in the skin and proceed as for potato 
salad. It is ver}- imj^ortant lo prepare the dasheens while still warm and to 
add the dressing at once. 

Dasheens may also be stuffed, following the rule for potatoes, but 
using more butter; fried, either raw or after boiling, using a quick 
process that they may not become dry and hard; creamed, or made into 
soup. They may be made into cakes or croquettes, into griddle cakes, 
or used as a filling for fowl and other meats. Cheese is an acceptable 
addition to them and onion seasoning brings out the flavor. 



HAS THE ICE BLANKET ANY USE? 

The principle stated at the end of the article on The Household 
Refrigerator, in the December number of the Joupxal, that "Ice should 
not be wrapped in papers or blankets to keep it from melting; since only 
by its melting can the food chamber be kept cool" is an undeniable 
fact in physics. Yet the ice blanket may be properly used, not to keep 
the ice from melting, but to regulate the source of the heat that it absorbs 
in melting so that it may not obtain it from the outside air, such as enters 
through a frequently opened door. 

To be effective in cooling the refrigerator, the ice must absorb the 
heat of the air within the chest. This is cooled by the ice, contracts 
and becomes heavier, sinks down through the opening in the bottom 
of the ice chamber, and by contact with the food and the bottom and 
sides of the ice chest becomes warm and lighter, and is forced up through 
the openings at the side of the chamber by the cooler heavier air, and 
again enters the ice chamber. An arrangement then of the ice blanket 
that will allow this air to come in contact with the ice, but that covers 
the ice as far as possible from outside air should save the ice and not 
affect the temperature of the ice chest. 

It is a similar principle to that on which the ice cream freezer is 
constructed so that the heat that is absorbed by the freezing mixture 
comes from the cream to be frozen rather than from the out door air. 



[1917 students' contributions 85 

STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

A COMPARISON OF COMMERCIALLY PREPARED AND 
H0:ME PREPARED LUNCHEONS 

The object in carrying out this experiment was to try to determine 
which was really better, from various standpoints, to depend upon 
commercial foods or to prepare tliem in tlie home. The points con- 
sidered were cost, so far as time, fuel, and actual expenditure were 
concerned; nutritive value, in termsof calories; flavors, and attractiveness. 
The work was done by the Advanced Domestic Science Class of the 
Alabama Girls' Technical Institute, as one problem of the year's work. 
Each member of the class wrote on one phase of the experiment, and 
the instructor put the reports together, as a whole, for publication. 

Before making the menu it was necessary that visits he made to local 

•groceries, to ascertain what could be bought, and to compare lists thus 

obtained with others made from an inventory of pantry and garden. 

Five menus were then selected, each furnishing the required number 
of calories. In as much as the guests to be invited were (with one ex- 
ception) women, doing moderately active muscular work, we deter- 
mined upon 620 calories, according to Atwater's table. From the five 
menus, the class chose the following: 

Commercial Luncheon 
Boiled Ham Prepared Mustard 

Canned Butter Beans 

Canned Sweet Potatoes (candied) 
Baker's Bread Creamery Butter 

Canned California Peaches VaniUa Wafers 

PIoME Prepared Lunxheon 
Boiled Ham Mustard Dressing 

Butter Beans Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Homemade Bread Country Butter 

Home Canned Peaches Sugar Cookies 

The market price of the ham was 25 cents per pound, but shrinkage, 
loss in cooking and weight of wrapper increased the price to 42 cents. 
The peaches are recorded as requiring 4 minutes for cooking. This 
is the result of a previous experiment in canning a bushel, and cook- 
ing fourteen quarts at one time. 

The nutritive value of the two meals was approximately the same, 
and the seasonings used were identical. The cookies probably were 
higher in food value than the wafers, but not so many v.-ere eaten. 

The succeeding tables show tlie method of comparison: 



86 



THE JOiniNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



Commercial 



rooD 


QDAKTITY 


COST 


TlMXOr 

PREPARA- 

TIO.V 


TIMT 0» 
COOKING 


Ham 


2 lbs. 

1 bottle 

2 loaves 
lib. 

2 cans 

3 cans 
2 cans 
2 bo.Kes 


$0.80 
.07 
.10 
.40 
.20 
.30 
.60 
.20 


minules 

2 
3 
5 

20 
2 
2 
6 
1 


minutes 


^lustard . 




Bread 




Butter (balls) 




Potatoes 


30 


Beans 


20 


Peaches 




Wafers 








Total 


S2.67 


41 


50 







Cost of materials S2 . 67 

Labor, 41 minutes, at 15 cents per hour 10 

Gas, 50 minutes, at ^ cent per hour 004+ 

Totalcost S2.77+ 

Served 18 persons; cost per person . 15+ 

Average appearance of all dishes 87.5 per cent. 

Average flavor of all dishes 86 per cent. 

Home prepared 



Ham 

Mustard 

Butter (balls). 

Bread 

Potatoes 

Beans 

Peaches 

Cookies 



2 lbs. 

5 cup 

1 lb. 

2 loaves 
9 (large) 

3 pts. 
1 qt. 

18 



Total $1 . 75 



$0.84 
.04 
.30 
.10 
.08 
.20 
.10 
.09 



TIMZ OF 
PREPARA- 
TION 



minutes 

25 
10 
20 
45 
12 
45 
30 
45 



232 



TiuE or 

COOKING 



minutes 
10* 



40 
30 
35 
4 
45 



164 



•Afterward fircless 2 hours. 

Cost of Materials $1 . 75 

Labor 3.8+ hours at 1 5 cents per hour 057 

Gas 2.7+ hours at J cent per hour 013 

Total cost $2 33+ 

Served 18 persons; cost per person $0 129 

Average appearance of all dishet 00 percent. 

Average flavor of all dishes 88. 7 i)er cent. 

From the experiment we conclude that from the standpoint of cost, 
flavor, and appearance, the homemade lunrh is preferable, but from 
the time for preparation, and the gas consumed, the commercial is 
preferable. 



EDITORIAL 

The Housewife and the Eight-Hour Day. One of the January 
magazines has an article on The Housewife and the Eight-Hour Day 
that contains the following remarkable statement. 

At the very outset I should take a mother's attention to her children out of 
the list of activities which are commonly designated by the term labor. The 
care of the child is a high privilege which should not be denied any mother. 
The labor of the household is therefore restricted chiefly to keeping the house 
clean, preparing its food, and washing its dishes. 

In other words, having eliminated, or put in leisure time, the chief 
and most important occupation of many women in the home, the author 
shows conclusively that eight hours a day is enough time to spend on 
household labor. He goes on to say that the mental attitude of the 
worker transforms the housewife's task into an "opportunity," and that 
in the "environment of a well equipped kitchen a woman can go with 
joy to her artistic duties." 

Why then not include the hours spent in housework as leisure time 
and consider them a "high privilege?" Why again leave out the plan- 
ning of meals, the purchase of supplies, the mending and care of cloth- 
ing, to say nothing of the making or purchasing of it, the washing and 
ironing, the answering of telephone and doorbell, no light task in many 
a household. We would suggest the study of the Syllabus of Home 
Economics. 

The following schedule is offered. "Two hours for breakfast, an hour 
for lunch, two hours for dinner, and three hours for work around the 
house are quite suflicient in this systematic way to do all that is neces- 
sary for a family of reasonable size. The woman thus furnished has 
eight hours of leisure (for children, books, clubs, music, entertainment, 
recreation, exercise) and then eight hours for sleep." 

If enough is eliminated even fewer hours might easily suffice. One 
young married woman, who has determined that housework shall not 
occupy all her time, finds that between four and five hours daily are 

87 



88 TEEE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS fFebrjary 

necessary for her family of two, in a seven room house. She is quick 
and knows how to omit non-essentials. Her laundry is sent out and a 
woman comes for cleaning one day a week. Breakfast is prepared in 
many households, my own among the number, for a family of four, in 
fifteen minutes, with a short half hour for clearing the table and wash- 
ing the dishes. But this by no m^eans proves that it could be done in 
this time under other conditions, as in case of a hearty breakfast for 
farm laborers or where there are little children who must have some 
special provision made. 

It is a venturesome person who can make a general schedule for 
housework, and an even more venturesome one who can try to per- 
suade the mother that there is not a great deal of downright hard work 
in the care of children, however great may be the joy and delight in 
their training and companionship. 

Business Training for "Women. In former days it was the occasional 
woman who had to do with business outsiue the management of her 
own household. Even within the home her administration frequently 
was carried on, more or less successfully, without any attention to busi- 
ness principles. Now there are multitudes in the business world, yet 
it rem.ains true that a large proportion of women have not yet the 
preparation for any business responsibility, and that the lack of this 
experience often results in tragedy. 

That this need is felt is shown by the fact that various organizations 
of women are considering the remedy. The General Federation of 
Women's Clubs is planning the formation of a department dealing with 
Business, coordinate with Health, Civics, Home Economics, and other 
departments. One branch of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae 
has been discussing the question "What can be done to better prepare 
high school and university girls for financial responsibility." One State 
University is preparing to olTer in connection with its department of 
Commerce a two hour general course to meet this need. 

The question is asked of the Journal whether any other university 
has developed a course of this kind, and, if so, what is the content of 
the work. Information will be welcomed. 



The Journal has passed its 40fX) mark in subscriptions -a gain of 
over COO for the past year. 



191 7j TITE QtrESTION BOX S9 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: What are the latest results of investigations of the effect 
of alum baking powders on the human system? What are the results 
in baking powders where an acid other than tartaric acid is used? 

Answer: No recent investigations pertaim'ng to the effect of the 
various baking powders on the human system have been reported. 
Bulletin No. 13, 1889, of United States Department of Agriculture, 
Division of Chemistry, gives the composition of the various types of 
baking powder on the market. Since then these have not materially 
changed, the present kinds befng: 

First, Tartrate powders in which the acid constituent is tartaric 
acid in some form; second, phosphate powders in which the acid con- 
stituent is phosphoric acid; third, alum powders in which the acid con- 
stituent is furnished by the sulphuric acid contained in some form of 
alum salt. 

All powders come under some one of these headings, although there 
are many powders which are mixtures of at least two different classes. 
The conclusions of the board of consulting scientilic experts appointed 
by the United States government to investigate the influence of alum 
compounds on nutrition and health are given in Bulletin No. 103, 
United States Department of Agriculture entitled "Alum in Food." 
The following is quoted: 

Aluminium compounds when used in the form of baking powders in foods 
have not been found to affect injuriously the nutritive value of such foods. 

Aluminium compounds when added to foods in the form of baking pow- 
ders, in small quantities, have not been found to contribute any poisonous 
or other deleterious effect which may render the said food injurious to health. 
The same holds true for the amount of aluminium which may be included in 
the ordinary consumption of aluminium baking powders furnishing up to 
150 mg. (2.31 grains), of aluminium daily. 

Aluminium compounds when added to foods, in the form of baking pow- 
ders, in large quantities, up to 200 mg. (3.09 grains) or more per day, may 
provoke mild catliarsis. 

Very large quantities of aluminium taken with foods in the form of baking 
powders usually provoke catharsis. This action of aluminium baking pow- 
ders is due to the sodium sulphate which results from the reaction. 

The aluminium itself has not been known to assert any deleterious action 
injurious to health, beyond the production of occasional colic when very large 
amounts have been ingested. 

When aluminium compounds are mixed or packed with a food, the quality 
or strength of said food has not been found to be thereby reduced, lowered, or 
injuriously affected. 



90 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Recently, however, the question of alum powders has been reopened 
by Gies, of Columbia {Biochem. Bui, V, 1916, pp. 20-21). Under his 
general direction several "independent collaborators" have published 
papers on methods of determining aluminium and promised others on 
the effects of aluminium in food. Gies' paper of five years ago differed 
in its results from those of the Referee Board, concluding that aluminium 
could be absorbed from aluminized foods. 

Since the various inorganic salts of phosphoric acid have been used 
extensively in many nutrition investigations with no untoward results, 
we may conclude that baking powders containing these are not in- 
jurious to the human organism. The tartrates, however, when used in 
large quantities, have been found to produce untoward effects in rab- 
bits and dogs. We have no evidence that the sm.all amount of tartrates 
present in various baking powders are injurious. (Underbill, Wells 
and Goldsmith, Journal of Experime^ital Medicine, vol. 8, pp. 317, 322, 
347, 1913). 

Question: What is meant by the term vitamiries? 
What is meant by growth determinants? 

Answer: Formerly it was believed that a diet consisting of adequate 
amounts of suitable protein, carbohydrates, fat, inorganic constituents, 
and water would fulfill all the dietetic needs of a living organism. Re- 
cent investigations have shown, however, that animals fed suitable 
amounts of these food stuffs, in chemically pure form, fail to grow and 
finally die. When a fat soluble complex, associated with certain fats — 
notably, egg, butter, and beef suet — and a water soluble substance, 
found in fruits and vegetables especially, were added to the above diet, 
normal growth was resumed. These two substances, the chemical 
nature of which has not yet been determined, are called by some inves- 
tigators "vitamines;" by others, "food accessories," still others desig- 
nate them as "growth determinants." McCollum of the Wisconsin 
Experiment Station has introduced the terms "Fat Soluble A" and 
"Water Solul^le B," believing that when the chemical nature of these 
is known, suitable names can be substituted. Certain deficiency dis- 
eases, particularly bcri-beri, scurvy, and perhaps pellagra are caused 
by too little of either one or the other of these essential substances. 

REFERENCES 

McCot-LCM AND Dams, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 15, 1913, p. 167. 
OSBOk.VE AM) Mknuel, Jout. Biol. Chem., vol. 15, 1913, p. 311. 
McCollum and Kennedy, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 24, 1916, p. 491. 
McCoLLCM ANO Davis, Jour. Biol. Chem., vol. 23, 1915, p. 181. 

M. Helen Keith. Jour. Home Economics, December, 1916, p. 642; Ilomemakrr'i Dqst., 
same Dumber, p. 664. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JoTONAL OF Home Economics il the Journal price is listed. 



Clothing and Health. By Helen Kinne 
and Anna M. Cooley. New York: 
The Macmillan Company, 1916, pp. 302. 
$0.65. By mail of the Journal, $0.71. 

The book is written for the purpose of 
giving girls of elementan,- school age a 
knowledge of sewing and garment making, 
together with information which will train 
them to plan well and to buy wisely the 
clothes they wear, and the fabrics in the 
home. 

It is made up of si.'t chapters, each de- 
voted to a particular phase of sewing or 
clothes. The subjects treated include the 
simplest forms of sewing, garment and gift 
making, caring for and repairing of clothes 
and of household linens, and discussions of 
problems confronting the shopper in select- 
ing and buying fabrics and ready-made 
clothing. 

Each chapter is subdivided into lessons, 
each of which emphasizes a particular point 
of the work in hand. 

The form of the book is simple and direct. 
It is readable and easy to understand. The 
information given is always coupled with 
e.\perienccs already known to the student, 
and is based upon the real and practical in 
every day life. 

There are many novel features which 
make this little book a valuable aid to 
young teachers. It suggests originality in 
handling sewing classes as against the 
more formal school-room methods frequently 
used. The scope of the subject matter 
given shows that the authors consider it 
necessar>' to teach more than merely how 
to sew if girls are to be able to dress well. 
They must have a more all-round training. 
The careful selection cf materials as to 
purpose and suitabilitj^ must have attention. 
Various points as to design, and the hygienic 



necessities also call for consideration. 
Clothing properly cared for will be more 
attractive and last longer than that care- 
lessly looked after. The chapter devoted 
to gift making introduces the social side 
of the subject in its thought for others. Of- 
tentimes this proves to be one of the great- 
est inspirations to a child learning to sew. 
The last chapter presents some of the labor 
problems in a way which cannot fail to 
interest the little girls, destined to be the 
mothers of tomorrow. It is through the 
interest of the shoppers that the conditions 
of working women may be improved. 

Unless the whole book were quoted its 
good points could not all be told, for every 
page brings its helpful suggestion. If there 
are points where some changes would sug- 
gest themselves, they are of such minor 
importance that they are lost in the feeling 
of genuine appreciation of this practical, 
helpful addition to our libraries — "Clothing 
and Health." 

Mahtha H. French. 

A Laboratory Manual of Foods and Cookery. 
By Emma B. Matteson and Ethel M. 
Newlands. New York: The Macmillan 
Company, 1916, pp. 325. SI. 50. By 
mail of the Journal, $1.62. 

The authors' purpose in this book is to 
approach the study of foods and cookery 
through experimental work in chemistry, 
bacteriolog>', and biology. It is expected 
that "the performance of the experiments 
and the answering of the questions arising 
from them, is to give a basis for discussion 
of procedure used in cookery, and 'should 
give such a grasp of the principles involved 
as \vill enable the student to work without 
recipes." Such a statement makes the 
home economics teacher anticipate a type of 

91 



92 



THE JOURNAL OF TIOMF. ECONOMICS 



[February 



book useful to those who feel that the most 
economical as well as the most efficient 
method of teaching foods and cookery is to 
make clear the underlying principles. 

The subject matter of the book is organ- 
ized in part under the food principles and in 
part under t}-pes of dishes as, for instance, 
"Desserts" and "Sugar and Candy." Each 
subject sucli as cereals is preceded by experi- 
ments relating to the topic and these experi- 
ments are followed by questions pertaining 
to the subject. Following the general topic 
is a group of recipes involving the use of 
food materials studied. About one-half of 
the book is devoted to these recipes. The 
book covers the general work on cookerv 
but makes no attempt to introduce the 
problem of meals. 

A careful review of the book indicates 
that the material included is accurate. The 
usefulness of the book will depend, however, 
largely upon the grade of students for which 
it is used. The conclusion of the reader is 
tliat the book is planned, not for high school 
students, but for those of more mature years. 
Such statements in the book as the one which 
follows ser\e to place it out of the realm of 
high school books. "Fruit is also valuable 
for its antiscorbutic propcrtj' and often seems 
to act as a mild diuretic." The book seems 
to be planned for students with some pre- 
vious general knowledge of the subject. 
The experiments arc very suggestive of some 
of the work that may be done to clarify 
the questions of proportions and processes 
but seem at times more complicated than is 
necessary to bring out the essential points. 
As a result the principles underlying the 
various problems do not stand out clearly. 

If the book were closely followed and the 
recipes used as indicated, con.sidcrahlc time 
would be wasted in the fjreparation of large 
cumbers of dishes where the principles 
have not yet been discussed. For instance, 
a scries of custards follow:i the work on milk 
though there has been no work of any sort 
on eggs. Many of the questions following 
the experiments arc excellent. Some, how- 
ever, do not take cognizance of the prepara- 
tion of the students, lor example, under 
ccrcaU is found the following question on 



milk, no work on milk having been given 
up to this point. "What possible objection 
could be raised to the long cooking of milk 
when used as a liquid with cereals?" 

The book shows careful work without the 
inaccurate and extreme statements so fre- 
quently found in food and cookery texts. 
It is to be commended to those teaching 
work beyond the high school as a \ery sug- 
gestive laboratory manual to use where the 
experimental method is desired. Whether 
the book accomplishes the aim of the authors 
will depend upon the skill of the teacher in 
securing a close application of the experi- 
mental work to the cookery processes. 

Pamphlets Received 

The following pamphlets are issued by the 

pubhshers listed: 

Bridginan's Popular Food Charts. By Eda 
Lord jVlurphy. Size 2 feet 4 inches x 3 feet 
6 inches. No. 1. The Body — A Building; 
No. 2. The Regulating Foods; No. 3. Pro- 
teins or Body Builders; No. 4. Carbohy- 
drates and Fats. E. C. Bridgman, Pub., 
86 Warren St., New York, N. Y. $2.00 
per set. 

Course of Study for Household Science Clubs. 
Illinois Farmers' Tnstitute, Dept. of House- 
hold Science, Circular No. 3. By Oflicers 
of the Dept., Springfield, 111., July 1916, 
pp. 28. 

Exhaust aud Vacuum in Canning. By A. 
W. Bitting. Washington, D.C: Research 
Laboratory National Canners Association, 
Bulletin No. 8, Sept. 1916, pp. 54. 

Guide to Menu Making. Arranged by Ann& 
Merritt li^ast. Curtis Publishing Com- 
pany, Philadel|)hia. 

London County Council. Evening Insti- 
tutes. Suggestions to Responsible Teach- 
ers of the Domestic Crafts and Home 
Organization, and Suggestions for Sylla- 
buses of Instruction in the Following Sub- 
jects: — Laundry Work, Cookery, Needle 
Crafts, Housework and Home Organiza- 
tion, Scientific Method in Relation to the 
I)omc*stic Crafts, Home Planning, Domes- 
tic Handicraft, Sim|)le Embroidery and 
Design, and Domestic Calculations. 1916- 
17. R. Blair, Education Officer. 



1917] BTBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 93 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the JotTRXAL. 

Foods and Cookery 

Milling and Baking Tests. J. A. Voelcker, Jour. Roy. Agr. Soc, England, 76 (1915), 
pp. iM, 334. 

The Laws Relating to the Manufacture and Sale of Food Products. Salem, Ore., State 
Printing Department, 1915, pp. 81. 

Biennial Report of the Dairy and Food Commissioner of Wisconsin for the Period 
Ended June 30, 1914. J. Q. Emery, Bien. Rpt. Dairy and Food Comr., Wis., 1914, pp. 252, 
pis. 3, fi^s. 22. 

Fifteenth .\nnual Report of the Food and Drug Commissioner. G. G. Frary, Ann. Rpl. 
Food and Dairy Comr. S. Dak., 15 (1915), pp. 200. 

Preliminary Report of the Dairy and I'ood Commissioner for the Year 1915. J. Foust, 
Penn. Dept. Agr. Bid. 279 (1916), pp. 53. 

Tenth Biennial Report of the Dairy and Food Commissioner of the State of Oregon. 
J. D. Mickle, Bien. Rpt. Dairy and Food Comr. Ore., 10 (1912-1914), pp. 108, figs. 22. 

(Food and Drug Insj)ection.] E. F. Ladd and Alma K. Johnson, North Dakota Sta. 
Spec. Bid., 4 (1916), No. 4, pp. 81-96. 

[Food, Drug, and Dair>- Inspection.] Ann. Rpl. Bd. Health Mass., 46 (1915), pp. 401- 
523, fig. 1. 

Dandelions as Food. Lucile Brewer and Helen Canon, Cornell Reading Courses, 5 (1916), 
No. 105, pp. 79-91, pi. 1, figs. 6. 

The Use of Wild Plants as Food by Indians. T. Wilson, Oltaua Nat., 30 (1916), Xo. 2, 
pp. 17-21. 

Caviar: ^\'hat It Is and How to Prepare It. L. Radcliffe, U. S. Dept. Com., Bur. Fish- 
eries Econ. Circ. 20 (1916), pp. 8, figs. 3. 

Commercial Possibilities of the Goosefish. H. M. Smith, U. S. Dept. Com., Bur. Fish- 
eries Econ. Circ. 13 (1914), pp. 5. 

Utilization of Honey and Wax. J. Tinsley, West cf Scot. Agr. Col. Bui. 69 (1916), pp. 
63-72. — Recipes are given. 

Unique Xonrefrigerative Methods of Food. L. Lodian, Refrigerating World, 50 (1916), 
No. 6, pp. 25-28, figs. 3. 

Physiology a\d Nutrition 

[Progress in] Physiological Chemistry [during 1915]. F. G. Hopkins, Ann. Rpts. Prog. 
Chem. [London], 12 (1915), pp. 187-209. 

Gelatine as a Food for the People. E. Homberger, Sci. Amer. Sup., 81 (1916), No. 2097, 
p. 167. 

The Effects of Commercial Glucose When Fed to White Rats. A. J. Carlson, L. Kektoen, 
and E. R. LeCount, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 38 (1916), No. 4, pp. 930-936, fig. 1. 

Seaweed as a Supplementary Food Material. E. Beckmann, Abs. in Zenlbl. Biochcm. 
u. Biophys., 18 (1915), No. 11, p. 379. Bread made from mixtures of finely ground seaweed 
and wheat, rye, and potato flours is said to possess good properties. 

The Dietary Factors Operating in the Production of Pol>'neuritis. E. V. McCollum and 
Cornelia Kennedy, Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), No. 4, pp. 491-502. 

Fat Assimilation. W. R. Bloor, Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), No. 4, pp. 447-460. 

Goat's Milk to Get Test. Mod. Ilosp., 6 (1916), No. 3, pp. 232, 233. Announcement of 
an investigation to be conducted to determine the value of goat's milk for tuberculosis patients 



94 THE JOURNAL OF HOAER ECONOMICS [February 

What is a Vitamin? Jour. Atner. Med. Assn., 66 (1916), No. 19, p. 1470. 

Recuperation. — Nitrogen ^Metabolism of a Man \\hen Ingesting Successively a Non- 
protein and Normal Diet After a 7-day Fast. F. D. Zeman, J. Kohn, and P. E. Howe, 
Amcr. Jour. Physiol., 36 (1915), No. 4; Proc. Amer. Physiol. Soc, pp. 362, 363. 

Protein Metabolism. J. J. R. MacLeod, Jour. Lab. and Clin. Med., 1 (1915), No. 2, 
pp. 112-119. 

The R6le of Salts in Infant Feeding. F. H. Bartlctt, Arch. Ped., 33 (1916), No. 1, pp. 
25-30. 

A Brief R6sum6 of the R6le of Carbohydrates in Infant Feeding. H. R. Mixsell, Arch. 
Ped., 33 (1916), No. 1, pp. 31-36. 

Present Opinion as to the R6le of Fat in Infant Feeding. J. L. Morse, Arch. Ped., 
33 (1916), No. 1, pp. 20-24. 

The Digestibility of the Proteins of Milk and Their R6le in Infant Nutrition. L. E. 
Holt, Arch. Ped., 33 (1916), No. 1, pp. 13-19, fig. 1. 

The Use of Bo.x Rations by the French Troops. E. Maurel, Bui. Acad. Med. [Paris], 
75 (1916), No. 9, pp. 254-259. Rations are suggested which shall contain a mixture of meat 
and either fresh or dried vegetables chopped in small pieces. 

Feeding Prisoners of \\'ar in Germany. Friedrich, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 24 (1915), 
No. 4, pp. 387-394. A translation of an ofhcial German order governing the feeding of 
prisoners of war. 

The Biochemical Analysis of Nutrition. C. L. Alsberg, Jour. Wash. Acad. Sci., 6 (1916), 
No. 10, pp. 269-280. 

Beri-beri in Lebong. — An Account of the Steps Taken to Eradicate the Disease During 
1914. J. C. Kennedy, Jour. Roy. Army Med. Corps, 25 (1915), No. 3, pp. 268-285, figs. 2. 

The Limit of Assimilation of Glucose. A. E. Taylor and Florence Hulton, Jour. Biol. 
Chcm., 25 (1916), No. 1, pp. 173-175. 

The Basal Energy Requirement of Man. E. DuBois, Jour. Wash. Acad. Set., 6 (1916), 
No. 11, pp. 347-357, fig. 1. 

Clinical Calorimetry. — X, A Formula to Estimate the Appropriate Surface Area if Height 
and Weight Be Known. D. and E. F. DuBois, Arch. Int. Med., 17 (1916), No 6, pp. 863- 
871, figs. 2. 

Clinical Calorimetry. — XII, The Metabolism of Boys 12 and 13 Years Old Compared 
with the Metabolism at Other Ages. E. F. DuBois, Arch. Int. Med., 17 (1916), No. 6, 
pp. 887-901, figs. 3. 

Clinical Calorimetry. — XIV, Metabolism in Exophthalmic Goiter. E. F. DuBoii, 
Arch. Int. Med., 17 (1916), No. 6, pp. 915-964, figs. 7. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

Organizing a State Campaign of Public Health Education. C. E. A. Winslow, Amtr. 
Jour. Pitb. Health, 6 (1916), No. 8, pp. 805 813. 

Ptomaine Poisoning From "Creamed" Codfish. M. A. Blankenhorn, G. E. Harmon, 
and P. J. Hanzlik, Cleveland Med. Jour., 15 (1916), No. 2, pp. 97-104; abs. in Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assn., 66 (1916), No. 15, pp. 1166. 

A Plan for Education in Industrial Hy;;icne and the .Avoidance of Occupational Com- 
I.laints. J. W. Schcrcschcwsky, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1031-1038. 

Organized Hygiene. — Methods and Results in Instruction in Personal Hygiene. The 
Pros{>cct of Improving the ExjKctation of Life in Middle .\gc. K. C. Howe, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1039-10-18. 

A Study of Methods for Determining .\ir Dustiness. G. T. Palmer, L. V. Coleman, 
and H. C. Ward, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1049-1075, figs. 3. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

HOME ECONOMICS MEETING TO BE HELD IN CONNECTION WITH THE 

N. E. A., IN KANSAS CITY, MARCH 2, 1917 

The President, Dean Catherine MacKay, Iowa Slate College, presiding 

MORNING SESSION 

Greetings from the .Vmerican Home Economics Association 

Dean Catharine MacKay, Iowa State CoUcge, President of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association 
Some Problems in Home Economics in the Public Schools 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, SpeciaUst in Home Economics, Bureau of Education, Washing- 
ton 
J. H. Francis, Superintendent of Schools, Columbus, Ohio 
Project Work in Teaching Home Economics, its \'alue and its Limitations 

Dean W. W. Charters, University of Missouri 
The School Lunch as a Project in Teaching Foods and Cookery in the Elementary and 
High Schools 

Miss Essie M. Ilcyle, Supervisor of Home Economics, PubUc Schools, Kansas City, 

Missouri 
Mrs. Mary Baker, Vocational High School, Memphis, Tennessee 
Miss Jenny Snow, Department of Household Arts, Chicago Normal College, Chicago 

AFTERXOON SESSION 

Fundamental Inter-relation of Courses in Home Economics and other High School Subjects 
Aliss Josephine T. Berry, Chief of Di\ision of Home Economics, University of Minnesota 

Teaching the High School Students their Responsibilities as Consumers 

Miss Hildegarde Knceland, Department of Home Economics, University of Missouri 

A Consideration of the Subject Matter of Textiles as a Part in the Teaching of Clothing 
Mrs. Kate Kinyon, Supervisor of Household Arts, Public Schools, Lincoln, Nebraska 

Principles of Design in Relation to the Teaching of Clothing and House Furnishing 

Miss .\raminta Holman, Supervisor of Home Art, Kansas State Agricultural CoUege 
Miss Ethelwyn Miller, School of Education, University of Chicago 

The National Education Association, Department of Superintendence, February 26 to 
March 3 presents a program fuU of interest to "he teacher of Home Economics who sees 
the relation of her own work to that of other departments of education. Those who can- 
not attend the whole meeting, are referred to the abo\e program of the American Home 
Economics Association on March 2. The headquarters of the Association \vill be at the 
Kupper Hotel. Directions for making reservations are given in the November, 1916, 
JouRNAt, page 610. 

The Kansas City Home Economics Association invites the Home Economics visi ors to 
the National EducaUon Association to take a drive over the boulevards and to a tea on 
Thursday afternoon, March 1. The machines will leave the Kupper hotel at 2.30. 

95 



96 THE JOURNAL OF HOMTT ECONO^^cs [February 

Thursday morning a visit to the schools will be arranged. In order <o save time, an 
effort will be made to provide motor busses, the cost for each person depending upon the 
total number who go. 

Friday noon, a fifty cent luncheon will be served at the Y. W. C. A. where the Home 
Economics meetings are to be held. Saturday morning a trip is planned through Loose- 
Wiles cracker and candy factory, and through Armour's where a special display will be 
arranged. 

Acceptance for the boulevard drive and reservation for the Thursday morning visit to the 
schools and for the Friday luncheon should be sent, not later than one week before the con- 
vention to Miss Essie Margaret Heyle, Supervisor of Home Economics, Board of Education, 
Kansas City, Mo. 

THE CENTRAL ASSOCIATION OF SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS TEACHERS 

Ho.\rE Economics Section 

The Home Economics Section of the Central .Association met in Harper Memorial 
Library of the L'niversity of Chicago Friday December 1 and 2. 

After the appointment of a nominating committee Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief of the 
OfTice of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, 
spoke on Teaching Practical Dietetics. The point chiefly emphasized was the use of sim- 
ple and objective methods in teaching dietetics to the av?rage student or housewife, such 
as explanatory pictures of actual meals, lists of foods arranged in the five groups, or charts 
with printed explanations. Dr. Langworthy illustrated his talk with lantern slides show- 
ing typical e.xamples. Miss Amy Daniels, in charge of dietetics at the Uni\ersity of Wis- 
consin, discussed Dr. Langworth\'s paper. She agreed with Dr. Langworthy and added 
that she felt that the housewife and the student need to understand the meaning of techni- 
cal terms, but do less of the mathematics of dietetics. To the inquiry-, "Would you use 
such terms as 'growth determinants' in the secondary school?" Miss Daniels replied, "yes, 
and gi%e the reasons why." 

Miss Carrie A. Ljford, Specialist in Home Economics, Bureau of Education, Washing- 
ton, D. C, presented a paper on Fitting Home Economics Work to Community Needs. 
The last paper presented was The Content of Domestic Art Courses, by Miss .Xnna McMillan, 
in charge of Domestic Art, Lewis Institute, Chicago. Since the Saturday morning meetings 
were to continue along these lines, these papers were not discussed. 

On Saturday morning the meeting was called to order by the chairman, Miss Edna White. 
A brief business meeting followed. 

The report of the joint committee on a course in high school chemistry for students in 
Home Economics was read by Miss Elizabeth Miller of the University of Chicago. The :e 
port was accepted and ordered printed in the proceedings and in The Journal of Home 

ECONOUICS. 

The chair was requested to appoint a committee to approach the Physics section with a 
view to arranging a similar combination course in Physics and Home Economics. 

The report of the Nominating Committee was as follows: For Chairman, Mildred Wcigley, 
Minneapolis, Minn.; Vice-chairman, Faith Lanman, Columbus, Oliio; Secretary, Beatrice 
Hunter, Chicago, 111. 

(Signed) Emma Conley, 
Jknnv Snow, 
Beknice AI-LEN. 
The following votes of thanks were passed: to the government for sending Dr. Lang- 
worthy and Miss Lyford to tlic meeting; to the University of Chicago and to Uie reception 
committee for their courtesy to tliis section. 

The mecling tiien divided into two sections (or round table discussions. 



1917] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 97 

SECTION I 
Standardization of food teaching in grades and high school 
Emma Conley, Extension Department, University of Wisconsin, presiding. 
First topic. Home Economics in the Junior \\ig\\ School. 

Discussion opened by Carrie V.. King, public schools, Chicago, followed by Faith Lan- 
man, Supervisor of Domestic Science, Columbus, Ohio. The points brought out in the 
discussion were: 

1. Great over-lapping of courses in Domestic Science in grades and high school. 

2. An apjxircnt tendency to leave out essentials in the course. 

3. Necessity of becoming familiar with utensils and how to care for them. 

4. Necessity of teaching ideals as to personal cleanliness. 

5. Emphasizing technique. 

6. Problem of making school kitchens self supporting, as students are interested in food 
sales. This point brought out several objections. 

a. It imposes extra work on the teacher. 

b. To make food salable, there may be over-emphasis of technique and neglect of 
otlier educational factors. 

c. There Is danger of sacrificing the child to the product, since the teacher often 
steps in to save mistakes for the sake of the finished results. 

d. Often only the children who do things well are allowed to cook. The point was up- 
held by others who felt that it was well for students to be judged by home standards 
if the food was made in family size, not institutional, recipes, as that is what they 
should learn to handle, and the work should keep the needs of the girl the main aim. 

7. Teaching tlie spending of the family income. 

8. Teaching economy of time, labor, and money. 

9. Giving pupils idea of living simply. 

Secotul topic. Science in Relation to Food Work. 

Discussion opened by Miss Jenny Snow, Chicago Normal College, followed by Miss 
Helen Monsch, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. 

Points brought out in discussion and illustrated by examples were: 

1. "Learn to control material tilings which lie about you to make life gracious and more 
worth living." 

2. Our purpose in teaching will control our work; we, as women, are inclined to hold 
back in the use of scientific apparatus, such as the use of accurate thermometers, to show 
how to control baking processes. 

3. The high school girl is not primarily scientific, therefore the science work given to 
her must have a practical application; show a reason for what she is going to do. 

4. Teaching the student not to be afraid of the things with which she is working. 

5. Do not think of the work from the college standpoint, but from the standpoint of 
communit)' needs. 

Third Topic. Teaching of Standards, Florence Harrison, University of Illinois. Miss 
Harrison's outline follows: 

Teaching of Standards 

In teaching the food course, it seems of paramount importance that the teacher should 
have in mind as her aim, the establishment of definite habits, ideals, and attitudes of mind 
as well as the teaching of certain facts and principles. 



98 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Time will not permit mention of all the habits which may be forme ' but a few are as 
follows : 

A. Personal habits. 

1. Washing hands before handling food. 

2. Wearing deari apron in kitchen. 

3. Using individual towels. 

4. Fastening hair well out of the way. 

5. Keeping handkerchief away from work table and washing hands after its use. 

6. Tasting from an extra spoon and not one that goes back into food. 

B. Habits in manipulation. 

1. ^Measuring accurately. 

2. Thoroughly cleansing foods. 

3. Arranging utensils conveniently and orderly while working. 

4. Planning for needs and reducing steps to the minimum. 

5. Using suitable utensil or tool and only for purpose intended and suited. 

6. Stirring, etc., without wasting effort. 

C. Habits in connection with care of the room. 

1. Washing utensils thoroughly in an abundance of hot water. 

2. Having a definite place for utensils and putting them in it. 

3. Looking before leaving the room to see if everything is in order. 

But the establishment of these habits in school is not sufficient to insure their being car- 
ried out as the girl performs her tasks under different surroundings and without super\-ision, 
unless ideals have been formed which impel one in favor of the habit formed. These im- 
pulses are acquired through the formation of the habit and partly because of discussions 
regarding the value and importance of the method of procedure followed. This idealizing 
of the method of work in order that specific habits may become general makes essential the 
daily discussion of the importance of and reasons for giving attention to the details of the 
processes to be carried out. The few minutes at the beginning of ever>' laboratory period 
devoted to such discussion are not wasted, but rather are of inestimable value. 

Some of the ideals which should be developed are: 

1. Cleanliness. 

2. Orderliness. 

3. Accuracy and exactness in measurements and manipulation. 

4. Economy in movements and use of utensils, materials, and time. 

5. Good workmanship. 

a. Making good products. 

b. Ability to criticize own work. 

c. Independence in work. 

6. Living within one's means. 

7. Cooperation in home and community. 

A few of the attitudes of mind to be sought are: 

1. Appreciation of attractiveness and spotlcssness in tabic service. 

2. Desire for simplicity in preparation and service of food. 

3. Prejudice against filth, disorder, respect for knowledge and investigation. 

4. Appreciation of hand work and tlie dignity of labor. 

5. .\pprcciation of time, money, and energy. 

6. .Spprcciation of value of system and planning. 

7. Respect for and appreciation of the work of otlicrs. 

The importance of the habits which may result but frequently do not result from the 
teaching of the food course, makes imperative the finding and following of a method which 



1917] NEWS FROM THE FIELD 99 

wall insure their formation. Such method, it is believed, means, first, that such training 
should begin in the elementan,' school and the early years of the high school; secondly, that 
the classes should be comparatively small, not more than twenty and preferably sixteen; 
thirdly, daily attention to details which necessitates lessons not overcrowded with subject 
matter. This would mean separate recitation periods, especially for high school; and lastly, 
standards of good workmanship, which are formed by seeing and handling that which is 
well done and by comparing and criticizing efforts made. 

The definite prejudices, ideals and attitudes listed, which it is believed may result, the 
teacher must feel responsible for causing to result. These somewhat intangible controls 
are not quickly formed and indicate that the subject should extend over a considerable 
length of time, as throughout the high school course. 

Dr. Langworthy suggested that many of these points could be printed on charts for 
memoranda in the home kitchen. 

Fourth Topic. High School Home Economics and College Entrance Requirements, 
Miss Gertrude \'an Hoesen, University of Chicago. 

Miss Van Hoesen said that there are apparently few, if any, such requirements. The 
diflSculty lies with over-lapping of work. The high school will not accept the elementary 
work, and the college does not accept much of the high school work which is taught by gradu- 
ates of these colleges, hence the thing moves in a circle and probably the college is to blame 
for not guiding the future teacher to better advantage. 

1. Our work is judged academically, and also economically. Are we wasting time, 
energy, materials, and money? Home Economics should be economics first, then science 
and art. 

2. Just now we accept high school courses good, bad, and indifferent. 
By vote the session was prolonged for further discussion. 

The following points were taken up. 

1. Have we increased the standard of living or of luxury? 

2. Are we teaching the use of many luxurious foods and articles of clothing? 

3. Do not teach elaborate process of preparation for which most persons have not time. 

4. Be bacteriologically clean rather than spotlessly clean. Miss Snow said that to avoid 
a cross woman in the household was more important than to be spotlessly clean. 

5. Urge less waste in housekeeping, but do not throw the entire burden on the house- 
wife, but some on society at large. There is no social group in good home management. 

It was moved and seconded that the chairman appoint a committee to collect recipes 
for foreign dishes to be taught in certain communities, so that the work in these districts 
can be "carried home," as the American recipes are very slowly accepted by parents of foreign 
birth, and that these recipes be printed in the Journal. This motion was carried and the 
following committee appointed: Miss Jenny Snow, Chicago Normal College; Miss Mabel 
Wellman, Indiana University; Miss Anna Van Meter, Ohio State University. 

Announcement was made that the Central Association will meet next year at Columbus 
Ohio, and an invitation was extended by the University to the Home Economics Section 
to hold their session in the new Home Economics Building. 

The meeting adjourned. 

SECTION n 

Standardization of textile and clothing teaching in grades and high school 

Ethel Sapp Tudor, in charge of Home Economics Department, Baldwin-Wallace College, 
Berea, Ohio, presiding. 



100 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



The discussion of the following topics was general and quite informal: 

1. Variation of courses for different communities. Leader, Anne Green, Extension 
Department, University of Illinois. 

2. Courses of study. Leader, .\gnes Hanna, School of Education, University of Chicago. 

3. Relation to the curriculum as a whole. Leader, Ethel Alexander, High School, Fos- 
toria, Ohio. 

4. Sources of supplementary material. Leader, Lora Lewis, Supervisor, Terre Haute, 
Indiana. 

5. Teaching of standards. Leader, Maude Gregory Adams, Supervisor of Practice Teach- 
ing, Ohio State University, Columbus. 

A general consensus of opinion was that — 

(a) Because community needs vary so greatly, there can be standardization in teach- 
ing Domestic Art only along broad general lines; 

(b) We need to concentrate more upon a few definite things we hope to teach with any 
given group of pupils; 

(c) Through correlation with all other high school and grade studies, the teaching of 
Domestic Art may be made of more value to the pupils; 

(d) There are many standards of equal importance with technical skill, and these should 
be considered a necessary part of the subject to be taught. 

Grace Gordon Hood, 
Secretary. 



The Annual Meeting of the National 
Society for the Promotion of Industrial 
Education is to be held February 21 to 24 
in Indianapolis, following a survey, for the 
purposes of industrial education, of the state 
of Indiana. 

This meeting is of great interest to workers 
in home economics, and those who attend 
will be amply repaid. No special session 
for women's work will be held, but on each 
general program that side of the work will 
have consideration. "The Two-Fold Prob- 
lem of Training Girls" by Mrs. Eva White 
of Boston is of special interest. There will 
be a dinner meeting on February 23 and a 
luncheon meeting on the 24th where voca- 
tional training for girls and women will be 
discussed. 

The advance program, giving full details, 
will be sent anyone on postal card request 
to the N. S. P. I. E., 140 West Forty-second 
Street, New York City. 

The Smith-Hughes Vocational Educa- 
tion Bill pa.s9cd the House of Representatives, 
Tuesday, January 9. The bill now goes to 
a Conference Committee to be amalgamated 
with the Senate Bill which passed last 
August, from which it differs in slight detail. 
As the bill unanimously passed in both 
Houses, its consideration in the Conference 
Committee will be largely a matter of rou- 
tine and we may confidently expect that it 



will be signed by the President early in 
February, to go into effect July 1, 1917. 
The amendments advocated by the organi- 
zations chiefly interested in the bill were 
practically all secured. The bill will un- 
doubtedly come from the Conference Com- 
mittee in far better and more complete form 
than it was earlier believed possible to secure. 

CONVENTIONS IN FEBRUARY 

The Fourteenth Annual Convention of 
the Religious Education Association is to 
be held in Boston, February 27 to March 1. 
One session is to be on The Family, and in- 
cludes addresses by Rev. Abraham W. Rib- 
bany on The Old and the New Foundations of 
the Family .\ltar; by Dr. Richard C. Cabot 
on Family Prayers; by Rabbi Harry Levi, 
of Temple Adeth Israel, on The Training 
of Parents, and by Dr. William McKeever, 
of Kansas State Agricultural College on The 
Rcs[)onsibiIitics of Parents to their Children. 

The Consumers' League of the State of 
New York will again hold its annual meeting 
in New York City, in conjunction with the 
quarterly conference of the National League 
and the annual meeting of the New York 
City league, February 15 and 16. General 
(k>cthaU and Dr. /Mice Hamilton have been 
invited to >pcak. 



THIS IS LABEL MONTH. 
PERSIST. 



ASK rOR IT. 



Vol. L\. \o. 3 MARCH, I'M 7 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Honiemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mas Alice P. Nortoj*. ElUor Kftl-rah E. Baldwin. Managint PJiior 

Editorial Board 
Mbs. Mary H. Abel An'sa Barrows C. F. Laxcworthy Isabf.l Ely Lord Katuarise Blunt 

Ex-OJicio .VfmVri— Catharine J. MacKay, President American Home Economics Association 
EuuA H. GrNTHER, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Whef.ler. Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowixs, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Collaborators — The Officers. Nfembers of the Council, and .Advisers 



CONTENTS 

C'oi.i.Kc.i: Kksidknce Hai.i.s J-dniiiiKl J. James 101 

\ School Electric Equipment 108 

A Comparison of Digestibility of Starch in Typicai, Hatter and Dough Mixtures 

Amy L. Daniels and Leola Strickler 109 
Report of the Committee o\ Correlation ok Chemistry and Home Economics in 

High Schools 114 

Score Card for Refrigerators IT. .|. Ev,iiis lis 

The Office Restaurant and Its Opportinities I.ucy S. Kdlou 121 

The .\merican Public Health .Vssociation 12.^ 

For the IIomemaker 127 

Women AND Clothes Helen Louise Johnson 127 

Home Economics Funds 1,^6 

The Homemade Fireless Cooker 137 

Sweet Potatoes 138 

Students' Contributions 

A Contribution to the Standardization of Conditions in Coi.i.ege Hai.ls for 

Women Mberia Borthwick 139 

Editorial HI 

Hooks and Literature 143 

Bibliography of Home Economics 14.S 

Xews from THE Field 147 



n f Journal o: Home Economics is pjhiished monthly hv thp American Home Economics .Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SI.NGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal -Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN .ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
chtjJKe is to take etTect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

.\.MERIC.\X home economics association 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore. Md. 

Entered as s.'cond class matter at the Baltimore Post OflSce 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX MARCH, 1917 No. 3 

COLLEGE RESIDENCE HALLS^ 

EDMUND J. JAMES 
President of the University of Illinois 

The question of providing for the adequate housing of students attend- 
ing the higher institutions of learning is one which has had a very 
different answer in different countries, and in the same country at 
different times, and in the same countries at the same times in different 
institutions. When the universities in the Old World began to develop, 
it was necessary to introduce a residence hall feature oftentimes because 
the localities in which the institutions were placed had no adequate 
provision for housing the student body. In fact, it is said of more than 
one university that the number of students was so much in excess of 
any possible provision for them that they lived in tents, they camped 
in the fields, in fact in some places they burrowed into the sides of the 
hills. The students of today who complain of the lack of this or that 
or the other would be wonderfully benefited, in my opinion, by a little 
of the wholesome, vigorous, trying life of the medieval universities where 
they would really have to sacrifice for the purpose of getting that train- 
ing and education which would enable them to do their highest service 
to the community in the long run. 

We see that as a result of school development at Oxford and Cam- 
bridge, and other typical universities of England, not only were housing 
privileges provided by the university, or rather by the colleges which 
made up the university, but students were obhged by university rule 

* Part of an address delivered at the la>-ing of the corner stone of the Woman's Residence 
Hall, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, October 21, 1916. 

101 



102 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

to live in those houses. At Oxford and Cambridge for . ome time the 
universities refused to permit any students to enroll for university 
work who had not been already admitted to some college or residence 
hall for wliich a certain number of university graduates had assumed 
a certain kind of responsibiHty, and the university would not recognize 
these colleges as suitable media through which these students should 
enter the university until the colleges had provided residence halls in 
which the students should live and in which they should be under a 
certain college and university influence. It took practically an act of 
Parliament to pry open the universities so as to allow students to enter 
Oxford and Cambridge who for any reason could not get into the col- 
leges, or for any reason preferred not to enter through the colleges; and 
the noncoUegiate body of students — that is a body of students H\'ing 
at large in the community as we all do here at the University of Illinois — 
is a creation of the last fifty years at Oxford and Cambridge. 

On the Continent, from other reasons, into which I need not go, the 
residence feature early dropped out as a characteristic of the great 
universities of Germany, and, to a smaller extent, of other countries. 
A few of these universities still maintain residence halls for a consider- 
able portion of the student body, but, generally speaking, the German 
universities have given up all idea of trying to provide residence faciUties 
for students. 

Our o\\Ti American universities, springing, as the larger number and 
more prominent institutions did, from English origins, began with the 
idea of providing buildings in which the students should live and in 
which they should be subject to the severe discipline of the university. 
That was a time when freshmen were regularly flogged for failing to 
attend the chapel, or failing to recite their lessons well. Discipline 
meant something in those days. Living in the college buildings had a 
real content which to a large extent we have lost in this western country. 

When our western schools were opened, particularly when our state 
universities were established, it was necessary in many cases to put in 
halls for students, because these buildings were located at a distance 
from towns, or the towns were so small that they could not be expected 
to take adequate care of the number of students who were exp>ected to 
attend these institutions. 

As time progressed and the number of students began to increase 
rapidly, it became increasingly difiicult to provide, cither in the eastern 
or western institutions, a sufficient numlx^r of buildings to house the 



191 7 J COLLEGE RESIDENCE HALLS 103 

students in college buildings, and so the number of non-college residences 
— if we may use that term — increased rapidly in all our great universities. 
The experiences of our western institutions with residence halls in 
the early days were not such as to arouse the enthusiasm of the trustees 
or the faculties for their increase. The stories which the men who 
occupied these dormitories in the early days still tell with jovial counte- 
nances and with mirthful chuckles do not convey the idea of abodes of 
quietude. The rolling of wagon wheels down the stairways, the drop- 
ping of waste water pails full of waste upon the heads of approaching 
members of the faculty or fellow students, give some indication of the 
academic peace and quiet which prevailed in these early dormitories. 

I do not know that a better illustration of this whole development 
can be found than here in the University of IlUnois. When this insti- 
tution was established in 1867 the surrounding country east and west, 
down to the Illinois Central Railroad on the west and to a similar dis- 
tance to the east, was practically an open field. The villages of Urbana 
and Champaign were not large enough to take care of even the small 
number of students who repaired — I will not say flocked, as that implies 
a larger number — to this center of learning. 

One of the reasons why the University was located here is to be found 
in the fact that there had already been erected, for the housing of a 
hoped-for academy or seminary, a building which contained a consider- 
able number of rooms that might be rented to students. It was the 
first building and for a time the only building, including lecture rooms, 
laboratories, dining hall, rooms for students, and all the comforts of a 
Christian home, using that term in a large sense. 

But the students were not very much enamored of their quarters, and 
they thought far more of having what they called a good time, which 
involved noise and racket and the destruction of property, than they 
did about helping to make the institution what it ought to be. The 
lack of funds on the part of the institution prevented the erection of 
other residence halls. The conditions in the old hall grew rapidly 
worse rather than better, and when a tornado finally took out one of 
the walls, compelling the destruction of the building, I think it is not 
too much to say that there was great rejoicing among the students and 
a great relief of head and heart among the faculty. The reputation of 
this residence hall persisted so powerfully through the following two 
decades that nobody even dared to discuss the question as to whether 
the University should have a series of residence halls or not. It was no 



104 THE JOURNAL OF HOivrE ECONOivncs [March 

wonder that Doctor Gregory was luke-warm toward the proposition, 
that Doctor Peabody w;is persistently opposed to the scheme of pro- 
viding residence halls, and that Doctor Draper was little inclined to 
let any movement start, so far as his influence could prevail, in favor 
of such a project. 

But time and tide change all things. The vivid recollections of the 
old dormitory and its manifold abuses mellowed out into a gentle, 
pleasing recollection of the funny sides, the amusing sides, the ridiculous 
sides, of life in the old building. In the meantime the rapid increase of 
students had taxed the Umits of the two cities to their utmost to take 
care of the ever-increasing crowd. A change began to come over the 
spirit of the University in the first place, and of the outside world in the 
second, in regard to this subject. Many persons became enthusiastic 
supporters of a project to provide a women's residence hall, or women's 
residence halls. Some people were so enthusiastic as to maintain that 
buildings should be erected to house all the women students of the 
University. And then the question naturally arose, — if for women, 
why not for men? And again the whole subject was in a position to be 
discussed on its merits without being prejudiced by the experience which 
the old-fashioned dormitory had given. 

Here at Illinois, finally, the movement for the erection of a residence 
hall for women took definite shape, and the Legislature made an appro- 
priation of money to the University which enabled' the trustees to begin 
to plan for such a building. We are laying the corner stone of this 
building today, and we are hoping, if strikes and wars do not interfere, 
that we may begin to utilize the building, for the purpose for which 
it is to be erected, at the beginning of the next college year, in Sep- 
tember, 1917. 

Of course the building, although it will be of some considerable size, 
will house only a very small percentage — probably not more than 
seven or eight per cent— of the young women who will be attending the 
University of Illinois next autumn. 

Many students do not care to live in residence halls. I remember 
that I, myself, when a student at Cambridge, after having tried the 
experience of living in the college dormitories, moved out because I 
preferred to have quiet and the isolation to a certain extent which the 
exclusive possession of a room in a private family gives. And I take it 
that there will l)e hundreds ant! thousands of young people here at the 
University of Illinois who will feel much the same way. In other words, 
if the University were in a position to erect buildings sufikient to house 



1917] COLLEGE RESIDENCE HALLS 105 

the student body and should then insist upon all the students living in 
these buildings, I sincerely believe that we should have as much diffi- 
culty and trouble as we have had growing out of the fact that we have 
not had such buildings. There will always be a certain amount of 
formality, a certain amount of red tape, if you please, in the manage- 
ment of such buildings. They bring about a certain sort of institutional 
life which in many ways has its pleasant features, but which is very 
unpleasant to many types of mind and heart. 

The following reasons may be given for establishing a system of 
residence halls at the University: 

In the first place, the people outside may not keep up an adequate 
supply of rooms, and the prices for rooms may be excessive. I think 
this is true in nearly all university centers located in small towns like 
our own. The addition of university residence halls will tend to relieve 
this pressure and even if they do not take care of all the students, and 
perhaps of no great percentage of students, they will do something to 
relieve the situation, do something to keep the prices down to a fair 
figure. 

A second reason is that they will do something to help standardize 
the conditions of life. A student needs for his work as peculiar and 
distinct a room and equipment as the grocery man needs for his work, 
as the iron man needs for his work, as the banker needs for his work, 
and it is very difficult to get people who rent rooms to students to under- 
stand that point of view and to provide the proper kinds of furniture 
and equipment. A university residence hall can, of course, do this and 
it can thus set an example, and if a private landlord wishes to know 
what to do in the way of providing facilities for students he can simply 
ask to see what the Uni\ersity affords and duplicate the cleanliness and 
light, and other essential things. 

A tliird reason which is often assigned for the university residence 
hall is to be found in the fact that it offers a certain kind of social organ- 
ization which is not so easily supplied by the students if they live at 
random throughout the houses of the community. 

Now I am inclined to set considerable store by this. While we are 
getting our university education, our knowledge of Latin and chemistry, 
and other subjects, we ought to be getting a lot of other things that help 
to make us civilized people. We ought to be acquiring polished man- 
ners. We ought to be acquiring a certain ability to live easily and 
efficiently, so to speak, with our fellowmen. If we fail to get this we 



106 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [MarcH 

are losing one of the valuable opportunities of univcisity life. Of 
course it is not easy to organize the Ufe of a great community like this 
as it should be organized. And residence halls properly constructed, 
properly organized, properly administered, can do something toward 
crystallizing and helping to form and shape what may be called the 
social hfe of the student body. And we shall hope for some results of 
this sort from this residence hall. 

Another reason sometimes assigned is that students who have lived 
scattered about through the towns do not get in touch with the uni- 
versity spirit. Some people have come here from Chicago and St. 
Louis and Cincinnati, with very strong feelings on that subject, and 
insisted that they would not send their boys or girls to institutions which 
could not provide what they called opportunities for the development 
of college spirit. And so they have insisted upon a kind of institutional 
life which the college dormitory may develop. 

I share this feeHng very deeply up to a certain extent. A student 
who comes to the University and Hves here four years and goes away 
without having increased his desire for profitable and wholesome human 
companionship will certainly have lost one of the greatest opportunities 
which college Kfe may bring. If he shuts himself off and keeps away 
from the common life of the students in their common occupations and 
their common ideas and common hopes and aspirations, if he lives to 
himself, becomes a hermit, of course he is not going to profit by his col- 
lege life as much as he would if he were to be a part of the institution 
of which he is a member. 

I have never, however, attributed as much importance to the residence 
hall in the development of that spirit here under our conditions as I 
should, for instance, at the University of Chicago, or Harvard Uni- 
versity, or Columbia, or Pennsylvania. We are here in this particular 
Latin quarter, in this University district, in this small segregated sec- 
tion between these two small cities, a community unto ourselves, and 
even if you have your room two blocks away from the campus and it is 
your own room and you do not share it with anybody else, you are 
still in immediate touch, in fact, you can not escape the touch of uni- 
versity life. It is not as if you were in the heart of a great cily, wilh 
every kind of an attraction drawing you away, persuading you to come 
out of the community in which you had enrolled yourself, and to smother 
the life which this community intercourse has called forth in you. 



1917] COLLEGE RESIDENCE HALLS 107 

In Other words, the University here comprehends and includes within 
sight of the campus, so to speak, the area within which its student 
body resides. If you go to Michigan you will fmd its buildings scat- 
tered over a large area throughout the town. The same thing is true 
of Oxford and Cambridge, in a smaller degree. Especially is it true of 
Harvard; was formerly true of Pennsylvania. Under such conditions, 
of course the problem is quite different. But here we are parts of a 
whole, the spirit and the feeling of which every one of us realizes in 
his own heart and in his own mind. We have, moreover, scattered 
through these two towns, something like thirty or forty fraternity and 
sorority houses. These are units of light on their own account. But 
they are none the less a part of the University because they are located 
two or three blocks away from what we call the campus than if they 
were actually upon the campus. In other words, we have made by 
our growth and development the whole university region, so to speak, 
a University campus, and it is not so necessary for us, therefore, to 
attempt to concentrate our life upon the few square feet included in 
our campus as it would be in a smaller institution or in an institution 
located in a great city. 

These are some of the considerations which have entered into the 
discussion of this question from the beginning and which will continue 
to enter into the discussions of the future. 

This is distinctly an experiment upon the part of the University. I 
have no doubt that it will be a successful experiment, and that this 
policy thus inaugurated here today will be carried out more fully in 
the years to come, as things may be perfected, by the state, but I have 
no thought that the time will ever come when either the student body 
will all desire to live in residence halls owned and controlled by the 
University, or when the people of the state will be willing to provide 
residence halls for the immense number of students who from present 
indications will crowd into this great center of learning. 

I congratulate the student body and the faculty and the trustees 
upon this addition to our facilities. 

If this building is going to be nothing more than a place where a 
hundred young women can find comparatively cheap accommodations 
I must confess that I should be but little interested in it. I am looking 
forward to its being a real center of life and light and uplift to the 
entire student body of the University. I expect to see it have a marked 



108 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

influence upon certain social standards, certain social practices and 
ideals among the young women of the University — an influence, I need 
hardly say, for the good. And if we succeed in founding it upon the 
right principles and securing an adequate and satisfactory administra- 
tion for it, I am quite confident that this will be considered in all the 
future history of the institution as one of the red letter days of the 
University of Illinois. 



A SCHOOL ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT 

Our frontispiece shows the electric appliances now in use in the 
home economics laboratory of the University of New Mexico, Albuquer- 
que, Miss Frances E. Lathrop, Director. The laboratory accommodates 
ten students and is equipped with an electric range, an electric plate 
with individual meter for each student, and an electric oven for each 
two students. The electric plates have proved convenient and satis- 
factory when speed is not considered. They heat somewhat slowly 
because the plate is solid metal instead of the corrugated style. When 
once heated the current may be reduced to medium or low with good 
results. 

The ovens have proved very satisfactory for all kinds of baking. 
They work especially well for roasting meats and baking of quick breads 
and cakes. The regulation of the oven is very simple and satisfactory. 
The electric range has not proved so successful, partly because of the 
expense in running it, but since the laboratory has been so well supplied 
with individual plates and small ovens there has been little need for 
the range. 

The system includes the individual meter system which makes it 
possible to regulate and control the expense. The equipment, taking 
every thing into consideration, especially the points of cleanliness 
and convenience, is very satisfactory. The average cost for each plate 
for a two hour period is ten cents (one kilowatt of electricity). The 
oven costs one-half more. 

Another typical electrical equipment is in the Home Economics 
Department of the High School of McComb City, Miss. 



1917] DIGESTIBILITY OF STARCH IN BATTER 109 

A COMPARISON OF THE DIGESTIBILITY OF STARCH IN 
TYPICAL BATTER AND DOUGH MIXTURES 

AMY L. DANIELS AND LEOLA STRICKLER 
Department of Horn* Economics, University of Wisconsin 

It is generally believed that unless starch is cooked it is not a source 
of food for man, since the diastatic enzymes of the body have been 
shown by various investigators to be incapable of digesting the unrup- 
tured starch grains. When, however, starch paste is heated to the 
boiUng temperature or thereabout, it produces a semi-transparent, 
colloidal solution, and in this form it is readily attacked by the diges- 
tive enzymes. The explanation for the difference in the digestibility 
of the raw and the cooked form lies apparently in the structure of the 
grain, for during the process of cooking na chemical change in the 
starch has been brought about, the gelatinization being a hydration 
process, the result of the adsorption of water and disintegration of the 
grain. 

Many theories pertaining to the structure of the starch grain have 
been put forth from time to time, but the most generally accepted 
hypothesis is that the starch grain is surrounded by an outer protective 
coat, the nature of which has not been established, which must be 
injured or removed before digestion can take place, and so long as the 
grains are intact the coating serves as a protection against the influence 
of diastase.^ According to many investigators plant diastases are no 
more efficient than human diastase in bringing about the initial changes 
in the integument of the starch grain. In the sprouting seed there is ap- 
parently some factor which removes the barrier presented by the coating. 

Heretofore, the usual method of distinguishing raw starch from 
cooked starch has been by means of the microscope. Raw starch from 
various sources has pecuhar shapes and markings. When the grains 
are cooked in water they lose their characteristic forms, become much 
larger, and, if the process is continued sufficiently long, the grains dis- 
integrate. From this, one might reason that those grains in a given 
mixture which conform in shape and size to the raw starch grains are 
uncooked and consequently indigestible. However, a microscopic ex- 
amination of samples of typical batter and dough mixtures showed many 

'The literature has been reviewed by Reichert: The Differentiation and Specificity of 
Starches in Relation to Genera, Species, etc. Part I. 1913. 



110 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

starch grains which were apparently unruptured; in fact, these were so 
numerous in the samples tested as to lead one to question whether the 
form of the starch grain may be used as a means of determining its 
digestibility, for it seemed hardly possible that so large a proportion of 
starch as was indicated could be uncooked and therefore unaffected by 
the digestive enzymes. It is conceivable that, in the process of cooking 
these various mixtures, the outer coating of the grains may be so affected 
that the diastatic enzymes may act on them, and that hydration and 
disintegration of the grain is not a necessary step in human digestion 
any more than it is in plant digestion. 

Our preliminary examination showed that those mixtures, namely, 
pancakes, omelets, and popovers, in which relatively large amounts of 
liquid are used, contained a far larger proportion of swollen and disinte- 
grated starch grains than those mixtures, such as pastry, baking powder 
biscuit, and bread, which contain relatively little water. In the first 
group there is apparently enough water to bring about a disintegration 
of many of the starch grains; in the latter the integuments of the grains 
may have been affected, but in the absence of an excess of water the 
form of the starch grain has not been altered. The starch grains in 
both groups, however, may be equally well digested. This can only be 
determined by digestion experim.ents. 

In the investigation, samples of typical batter and dough mixtures, 
namely, pastry, bread, crackers, cakes, baking powder biscuits, pan- 
cakes, and omelets (made with eggs and flour), were dried to constant 
weights, and digestive experiments were made with taka-diastase.* 
Comparable digestion experiments were made with the \arious mixtures 
after each had been mixed with water and heated in a water bath at 
100°C. for ten minutes. The difference between the amount of dextrose 
obtained before and after the water bath treatment was interpreted ^.s 
the measure of the amount of uncooked starch in the given mixture. 

In each determination 1 gram of the dried and pulverized material 
was placed in a beaker; 50 cc. of distilled water, 1 cc. of toluene, and 25 
cc. of a 0.25 per cent solution taka-diastase were added. These were di- 
gested at 40°C. for twenty-four hours in some cases and in others for only 
seven hours, after which they were heated to boiling to stop all enzyme 
action, filtered, the filtrate made up to 250 cc. and the amount of dex- 
trose determined in aliquot part by means of Dcfrcn's gravimetric 

' Obtained from Parke, Davis & Co. Preliminary trials produced practically no bydrolytis 
of raw pMtato starch. 



1917] 



DIGESTIBILITY OF STARCH IN BATTER 



111 



method. The same methods were employed in determining the amount 
of dextrose present in the mixtures which, previous to digestion, had 
been heated in the water bath. The amount of dextrose in the original 
samples was also determined. In all cases duplicate determinations 
were made. The results of the trials are summarized in the following 
tables: 

Comparison of the amount of digestible starch in typical batter and dough mixtures 



BATTXK AHD DOUGH WXTUKES 



Pastry. 



Angel cake . 



Crackers. 



Bread. 



Baking powder biscuits. . . . 



Pan cakes 



Butter cake. 



Omelet. 



g5 



gms. 



hours 

24 
24 

7 

24 

7 

24 
7 

24 

7 
7 

24 

7 
24 

24 

7 
7 

24 
7 

24 
7 






0.0004 
0.0005 

0.0006 
0.0005 



0.0002 

0.0019 
0.0008 
0.0019 



0.0008 
0.0019 

0.0012 
0.0009 
0.0012 



0.0003 

0.0003 
0.0003 



Si 



gms. 

0.0131 
0.0108 
0.0167 

0.0166 
0.0220 

0.0206 
0.0191 

0.0235 
0.0226 
0.0201 

0.0195 
0.0141 
0.0235 

0.0185 
0.0108 
0.0195 

0.0234 
0.0187 

0.0162 
0.0106 



Eg 
<< 

^ 5^ 2 

Sat; 

Ji « o 



0.0170 
0.0182 
0.0173 

0.0187 
0.0231 

0.0253 
0.0198 

0.0240 
0.0226 
0.0208 

0.0201 
0.0153 
0.0244 

0.0217 
0.0117 
0.0205 

0.0238 
0.0188 

0.0172 
0.0113 



5' 



851 



pet cent 

22.9 

40.7 

3.4 

11.2 
4.5 

18.5 
3.5 

2.2 

3.5 

2.9 
7.8 
3.7 

15.1 
8.3 
5.0 

1.7 
0.5 

5.8 
6.1 



It should be noted that there is considerable variation in the results 
obtained in the three samples of pastry tested. In samples I and II 
the difference between the percentage of dextrose in the digestion mix- 
tures before and after the water bath treatment was found to be 22.9 



112 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

per cent and 40.7 per cent respectively. Sample III, on the other hand, 
contained a very small percentage of undigested starch, only 3.4 per 
cent. The explanation of the difTerence in the results undoubtedly lies 
in the fact that the samples were prepared and baked under different 
conditions. Samples I and II were baked until the crusts were flaky, 
but not browTi; in fact, the skilled cook would have pronounced them 
insufficiently cooked. Sample III, which contained the smallest per- 
centage of undigested starch was well baked, if one may judge by the 
golden brown color. The microscopic examination of the pastry showed 
that in all cases the starch grains had been apparently unaffected by the 
baking processes. There was no evidence of gelatinization or disinte- 
gration of the starch grains. 

It is generally believed that pastry is difficult to digest, the reason 
sometimes given in explanation of this being that the fat surrounds the 
starch grains, thus preventing the starch-splitting enzymes from acting 
on the grains. This theory, however, is not well founded, for when 
pulverized samples of the pastry used in each of our trials were mixed 
with Sudan III, a fat soluble dye, and examined microscopically, the 
starch grains were found to be uncolored, while the stained fat was 
distributed in masses throughout the field. Moreover, the fact that the 
pastry of sample III, in which the usual amount of fat had been used, 
was well digested, demonstrates that the cause of digestion disturbances 
following the ingestion of pastry is attributable to some factor other 
than the inability of the digestive enzymes to act on the starch because 
the grains are surrounded by fat. We beUeve that the explanation 
Hes, in part at least, in the fact that some of the pastry as usually 
served is insufficiently cooked. It is conceivable that pastry containing 
from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of raw starch will cause an untoward 
effect in individuals whose digestion is easily disturbed. Well bal.ed 
pastry should cause no ill -effects, provided, of course, the person in 
question is not disturbed by a slight excess of fat. 

A microscopic examination of angel cake, pancakes, and omelets* 
showed that most of the starch grains had been eroded in all cases. 
This is contrary to expectations since angel cake and omelet are cooked 
at comparatively low temperatures, while the pancakes are cooked for 
a short period of time at a higher temperature. In explanation of this, 

' The omelet was prepared by adding to the well beaten egg the flour and milk which 
had been previously well mixed. This was then poured into a hot buttered pan and cooked 
in the usual manner. 



1917] DIGESTIBILITY OF STARCH IN BATTER 113 

the work of Lippmann^ should be cited. This author found that starch 
grains from various sources swell and gelatinize at difTerent tempera- 
tures. Barley, for instance, begins to swell at 37.5'^C., while arrow-root 
does not begin to swell until 66.25°C. Wheat, the starch with which 
this investigation is especially concerned, swells at 50°C., begins to 
gelatinize at 65°C., and is completely gelatinized at 67.5°C. This to- 
gether with the fact that these mixtures contain a comparatively large 
proportion of moisture is undoubtedly the explanation of the eroding 
of the starch grains in those samples, for example, angel cake and 
omelet, which were cooked at the lower temperatures. The two sam- 
ples of angel cake tested were not equally well digested, one containing 
11.6 per cent of uncooked starch, while the other contained only 4.3 
per cent. This may be explained by the difTerent conditions under 
which these were cooked. Here, more work needs to be done on cakes 
which are made under controlled conditions. There was very Uttle 
difference in the digestibility of the two samples of omelet tested, one 
containing 5.6 per cent of uncooked starch, and the other 6.1 per cent. 
Even though the omelet was cooked for a short period of time, approxi- 
mately 94 per cent of the starch was sufficiently changed to be digested. 
These results compare favorably with those obtained with butter cake. 
Neither sample tested contained over 1.7 per cent of uncooked starch, 
although the microscopic examination showed many apparently unrup- 
tured starch grains. 

The amount of uncooked starch in the two samples of soda crackers 
tested, varied, one containing 18.5 per cent while the other sample con- 
tained only 3.5 per cent. The crackers were made by difTerent firms, 
and presumably the proportions of ingredients and the methods of 
mixing and baking varied. 

Apparently the starch in well baked bread is in such form as to be 
digested. With the exception of butter cake the percentage of un- 
cooked starch was lower than in the other mixtures tested. In one of 
the samples, there was no difference in digestibility between that which 
was digested after being placed in a water bath, and the sample not so 
treated. In the other two samples, there was a very slight difference, 
2 per cent and 3 per cent respectively. 

Since, in many of the batter and dough mixtures tested, the amount 
of undigested starch was so small as to be almost within the limits of 

*Lippinann, Jour. F. prakt. Cliemie, vol. Ixxxiii, p. 51, 1861. 



114 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

error of the method used, although the microscopic picture showed 
many starch grains which appeared to be unaffected by the cooking 
process, it is evident that the conception generally held that starch 
cannot be digested unless its contour is changed, must be abandoned. 
A microscopic examination of the starch grains in a given mixture gives, 
we beheve, no indication of their degree of digestibihty. Grains which 
had all the characteristics of raw starch were as well digested by taka- 
diastase as those which had lost all semblance of their original form. 

Further work is being done on batter and dough mixtures prepared 
under controlled conditions. 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CORRELATION OF 

CHEMISTRY AND HOME ECONOMICS 

IN HIGH SCHOOLS 

HOME ECONOMICS SECTION, CENTRAL ASSOCIATION OF SCIENCE AND 
MATHEMATICS TEACHERS 

This committee was asked to report on the correlation of courses in 
home economics and chemistry as taught in high schools. Two phases 
of the problem were presented for consideration : 

1. What facts in chemistry are essential to the teaching of home 
economics in the various courses in cooking, dietaries, sanitation, and 
cleaning? 

2. What application from home economics problems can be drawn 
upon for experimental work or illustrative material in the teaching of 
chemistry? 

The first conclusion reached by the committee is that, in general, as 
high school curricula are now planned, very little, if any, correlation is 
possible. The home economics courses are in most places electives 
which may be taken during any year, and usually without satisfying 
any prerequisites. In the general chemistry courses iis now taught, 
api)lications are drawn chiefly from the steel mills and similar industries. 
The so-called "Household Chemistry" courses which have been offered 
have been chiefly a series of tests on foods and textiles, teaching few of 
the fundamental principles of chemistry, and making little intellectual 
demand upon the minds of the students. 



1917] CHEMISTRY AND HOME ECONOMICS IN HIGH SCHOOLS 115 

The excuse made for such courses is that, in general, girls who elect 
home economics, and who therefore take household chemistry, are the 
poorer students. It is the opinion of the committee that the explana- 
tion lies only partially in the quality of the students. There seems to 
be also on the part of teachers of general chemistry a lack of the neces- 
sary knowledge of organic and physiological chemistry; and also a 
lack of appreciation of the real value of such material in relating the 
chemistry course to the interests of the students. In addition a thorough 
understanding of the content of home economics courses is essential in 
a teacher who attempts household chemistry. 

In the light of these facts the committee can only recommend that an 
effort be made to standardize home economics courses, to require that 
they be taken in sequence, and that certain requirements in physiology, 
physics, and chemistry be imposed. It seems advisable to put chemistry 
in the junior year. It will thus parallel or precede the last course in 
foods. The home economics teacher will then be enabled to draw upon 
the student's knowledge of chemistry. 

The committee further reconmiends that the work in chemistry be 
planned to correlate as closely as possible in subject-matter and in time 
with the study of foods. To be specific: the usual course in cooking 
begins in the fall with fruits and vegetables, continues with a study of 
the other carbohydrate foods, then takes up fats and proteins. The 
chemistry of the carbohydrates, fats, and proteins is then the thing for 
which the cooking teacher finds the earliest application, and which, 
therefore, should come fairly early in the course if the chemistry is to 
be of any great value in the work on foods. To this end the following 
outUne of topics is suggested for a course in chemistry. 

1. Weight, measures, temperature. 

2. Physical and chemical change. 

3. Classification of matter — elements, compounds and mixtures. 

4. The atmosphere, oxygen and oxidation. 

5. Water. Hydrogen as a constituent of water. 

6. Acids, bases, salts. 

7. Non metals: 

Carbon and carbon compounds: oxides of carbon, carbonates, hydro- 
carbons, carbohydrates, alcohols and esters, fats. 

Nitrogen and compounds: oxides, acids and salts, ammonia, amino 
acid and proteins. 

Sulphur and compounds. 

Phosphorus and compounds. 

Halogens and compounds. 

Silicon and silicates; boron and borates. 



116 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiocs [March 

8. Metals and their familiar compounds — those which finM application in 
the household — sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, iron, 
nickel, copper, silver, gold, platinum, zinc, lead, tin, arsenic and antimony. 

The essential thing in such a course is that carbon and carbon com- 
pounds and nitrogen and nitrogen compounds should come early and 
that a study of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins should be included. 
The exact order in which the subjects are taken up and the method of 
development would be decided by the individual teacher. It will be 
noted that in this outline the distinction between organic and inorganic 
chemistry has been disregarded. This may seem a radical step, but 
since such a di\asion is chiefly historical, it does not seem sufficient reason 
for holding to the conventional sequence of subjects now found in most 
text books of chemistry, especially since it has not met our needs. 

The practical applications in such a course should be drawn from the 
problems related to the household. To illustrate, in the case of carbon 
and carbon compounds study should be made of the 

Use of carbon and hydrocarbons as fuels. 

Production of CO as a product of incomplete combustion. 

Production of CO2 from a carbonate and an acid or acid salt and by heating 
a solution of NaHCOa- 

Formation of carbohydrates by photosynthesis. 

Hydrolysis of starch by acids; commercial application, manufacture of 
glucose. 

Hydrolysis of cane sugar by acids. 

Digestion of carbohydrate; hydrolysis by enzymes. 

Fermentation of sugars by yeast. 

Quantitative determination of alcohol. 

Oxidation of alcohol to acetic acid. 

Simple esters, e.g. ethyl acetate, methylsalicylate, and their use in the manu- 
facture of flavoring extracts and perfumes. 

Fats: Solubility and emulsification. 

Saponification of fats. 

Use of soap as a cleansing agent. 

Effect of hard water on soaps. 

Quantitative determination of fat in milk and cream by Babcock tester. 

Tests to distinguish between oleo and butter, between cottonseed oil and 
olive, etc. 

Under the metals, besides a study of the properties of the elements 
and their familiar compounds, special consideration should be given to 



1917] CHEMISTRY AND HOME ECONOMICS IN HIGH SCHOOLS 117 

such points as the relative value of the metals as material for house- 
hold utensils, the formation of metal tarnishes and their removal, the 
manufacture and use of glazed ware. 

In suggesting such a course the committee wishes to emphasize that 
it should call for just as great intellectual effort on the part of the stu- 
dent, and should give just as thorough a knowledge of the fundamental 
laws and principles of. chemistry as any course in general chemistry. 
Although it has been planned primarily to meet the needs of girls who 
are taking home economics, it should be just as valuable for those girls 
who are pursuing a strictly "academic" course. It might also be made 
both interesting and profitable to boys. Are not such problems as the 
composition of foods, the changes which they undergo in digestion, and 
the possible adulterations which may affect either the pocket book or 
the health as close to the boy's life as is the chemistry of the metals and 
guncotton? 

Finally, it is recommended that a similar course in physics be planned 
which would take up such problems as plumbing, heating, lighting, and 
ventilating; the construction of a refrigerator, pressure cooker, fireless 
cooker. This might be given during the senior year and would corre- 
late with the courses in house planning and sanitation. 

To summarize, this committee recommends: 

1. That home economics courses be standardized, and certain require- 
ments in physiology, chemistry, and physics be imposed. 

2. That chemistry be given during the junior year paralleling or pre- 
ceding the last course in food. 

3. That the work in chemistry be planned to correlate in subject- 
matter and in time with the. work in foods. An outline of topics for a 
course in chemistry is suggested. 

4. That such a course should teach fundamental laws and principles 
of chemistry and should have real educational value. 

5. That it be offered not only to students of Home Economics, but to 
students taking the strictly "academic" course. 

6. That a similar course in physics be planned to be given probably 
in the senior year. 

Mary E, Moore 

Wilbur L. Beauciiamp 

K. C. Fitch 

Frederick B. Emery 

Elizabeth W. Miller, Chairman. 

Note. — The committee will be interested in obtaining expressions of opinion on this 
subject from high school teachers. 



118 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



SCORE CARD FOR REFRIGERATORS 
Prepared by Dr. W. A. Evans 

The following score card has been prepared for use in determining 
the comparative efficiency of refrigerators. It will be studied with 
interest in connection with the article on The Household Refrigerator 
in the December number of the Journal. 

(Front of card) 

Name of manufacturer 

Name or other method of designating refrigerator 

Name and address of owner 

PEITECT ALLOWED 



Temper-^ture of Food Chamber 
Rate as follows: 

40 degrees and under 45 

45 degrees 43 

50 degrees 36 

55 degrees 23 

60 degrees 9 

Over 60 degrees 

Calculate proper ratings for temperatures between any two temperatures 
rated. Example: To rate 52, subtract 23 from 36. Divide 13 by 5. Mul- 
tiply 2^ by 2. Add 5 to 23. Rating for 52 is 28. 
Ice EcoNOiiY 

Rate as follows: 

Heat transmission factor 1.5 20 

Heat transmission factor 2 18 

Heat transmission factor 2.5 16 

Heat transmission factor 3 14 

Heat transmission factor 4.5 11 

Heat transmission factor 7 6 

Heat transmission factor 9. or over 

Calculate proper rating for a heat transmission factor between any two of 
these. Example : To rate a heat transmission factor of 4. Subtract 1 1 from 
14. Divide 3 by 3. Multiply 1 by 2. Add 2 to 11. Heat transmission 
factor rating of 4 is 13. 

For method of estimating heat transmission factor sec heading "Ice 
Economy" on back of card. 
Humidity 

Rate as follows: 

55 to 65 8. 

65 to 75 7.5 

45 to 55 7.5 

40 to 45 7.2 

75 to 80 6.4 

30 to 40 6. 

80 to 85 4.8 

20 to 30 4.8 

85 to 90 2.4 

20 and under 



45 



20 



1917] 



SCORE CARD FOR REFRIGERATORS 



119 



PEKTECr ALXOWZD 



Ckculation of Air 

If any wall of the food chamber is moist, subtract at least 2. If wall is 
very wet or more than one wall is moist, subtract at least 4. If air cannot 
freely travel from ice to food chamber and back again, subtract at least 2. 

Interior Finish 

If ease of cleaning is perfect value 8. 

If finish is hard and non-absorbent value .3. 

If color is white value 1 . 

Drainage 

Proper trapping value 2. 

Proper drainage pipes value 1 . 

Exterior Finish 

Total, 



12 



100 



Signed . 
Title. . 
Date. . . 



{Back of card) 



INSTRUCTIONS TO SCORERS 



1. Temperature Test. To be entirely fair the refrigerator should be 
set near the center of a room which is free from drafts and in which the 
atmospheric temperature is kept at or near 80. The food box should 
be empty. The food chamber should be cold before the test is begun. 
The ice chamber should be approximately full. The ice should be in 
50 pound cubes. The food chamber should not be opened except to 
read the temperature. At least four readings at intervals of not less 
than one hour should be taken and averaged. 

A test under actual pantry conditions is reasonably satisfactory. In 
making a test under pantry conditions, credit the refrigerator with a 
5 per cent raise in rating if the temperature of the pantry is between 
80 and 90, and a 10 per cent raise if it is 90 or over. If the inside door 
of the food chamber is opened oftener than once an hour, credit with a 
5 per cent raise in rating. 

2. Ice Economy. The food chamber should be cold at the beginning 
of the test. Weigh the ice at the beginning of the test. Weigh the 
ice left at the end of the test. For the purposes of the test, the average 
temperature of the food chamber and of the pantry for the period of 
the test must be known. Also the number of square feet of the outside 
surface of the refrigerator. 



120 THE JOURNAL OF HOAIE ECONOMICS [March 

To get the surface of the refrigerator, measure the fro^it, multiply by 
2. Measure one side, multiply by 2. Measure the top, multiply by 2. 
Add the three products. 

t!" Method of determining heat transmission factor — 
Number of pounds of ice melted x 142 
= Heated transmission factor 

Number of square feet of wall x difference 1 
between room temperature and food ?■ 
chamber temperature J 

Example: A cheap refrigerator with 39.5 feet of external area main- 
tained a difference of 18° for 24 hours by melting 40 pounds of ice. 

40 X 142 1 ^ ^^ , . . , , . ,. . ,. 1, 

— — - — — > = 7.99 heat transmission factor which gives the box an ice 

39.5 X 18 j ^- f 2n 

economy rating of 3.2. 

3. Humidity. In making the humidity test a wet and dry bulb 
thermometer (hygrometer) is to be used. At least four readings are 
to be taken at intervals of not less than one hour. The humidities 
are to be averaged. If the tester is without a hygrometer and cannot 
test humidity, he may add 8, or a proper proportion thereof, to the 
ratings for circulation of air. 

4. Circulation of air. Note whether the food chamber can be ven- 
tilated. If it can be, give credit for that fact in ratings. Note whether 
the cold air flows from the ice to the food and the warmer air from the 
food to the ice, or the probability of such flow, continuously. Credit 
for efficiency on these points. Note moisture on walls or of salt placed 
in food chamber. If the humidity be not taken and the humidity 
rating be added to circulation of air, note especially evidence of con- 
densed moisture on walls. 

To demonstrate air currents, place lighted smudge at one or more 
points in the food chamber and also in the ice box and note the directions 
of the flow of smoke. 

5. Interior finish. Jtase of cleaning refers to cleaning of the food 
chamber, and all shelves therein, the ice chamber and the drain pipes. 
Credit for removable shelves and rounded comers. 

6. Drainage. See that the trap in the drain pipe is in working order 
and that no air can enter the interior through it. 

7. Exterior finiah. Value on the basis of general appearance. 



1917] THE OFFICE RESTAURANT AND ITS OPPORTUNITIES 121 

THE OFFICE RESTAURANT AND ITS OPPORTUNITIES 

LUCY S. KELTON 
Dietitian, Larkin Company 

As is well kno\Mi, many of the large business establishments nowa- 
days are providing lunch rooms and restaurants for their employees. 

This step is usually taken, not only as a welfare movement, but because 
it makes for efficiency. Hot, appropriate lunches add much to the 
general health, and so to the regular attendance of the employee. Not 
having to go out for lunch gives the employee more time for rest and 
recreation, and she is more apt to be punctual at the afternoon session, 
and better fitted for her work than if, as is so often true, she had hurried 
home, eaten lunch hastily, and hurried back to work. This is especially 
true in winter when storms and wet weather induce colds, sore throats, 
and worse troubles. It is therefore possible for a restaurant department 
to contribute quite as much toward the good health and regularity of 
the employees as the medical department does, though properly speak- 
ing these two should be one, the nurse and the dietitian both being 
under the surveillance of the company doctor. 

To furnish wholesome, nutritious food at the lowest possible cost is the 
first essential for a company's restaurant. The menus should be planned 
to meet the requirements of the employee and there should be a marked 
difference in the menu for an office and for a factory — one needing a 
diet for the sedentary, and the other the larger quantities suitable for 
the manual laborer. 

Because these restaurants are a one-meal-a-day problem this cost is 
usually higher than it would be were three, or even two, meals served. 
For this reason every opportunity for additional service should be 
welcomed. The following possibilities suggest some such opportunities: 

A delicatessen counter may be established where leftovers are sold to 
those who desire them. P^mployees who go home and prepare an eve- 
ning meal are very glad to take a dessert or soup or even meat that is 
ready prepared, and this gives the restaurant an outlet for food that 
might otherv.-ise be wasted, or at least be difficult to use. 

Eggs, milk, and butter may be bought at wholesale prices and sold at 
a slight profit but below the retail market. 

With the consent of the company, and on the company doctor's pre- 
scription, eggnogs or similar foods may be served to employees who 
have returned to work after an operation or a sickness. 



122 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Suppers may be served to employees working overtime or going to 
night school. 

Suppers may be served in connection with the welfare or social service 
departinent, since nearly every social meeting or club is more successful 
and better attended if food is served. 

Lunches may be packed for picnickers, hikers, or for those going 
on short trips. 

Although this extra work might be undertaken for the purpose of 
increasing the income and decreasing the overhead cost of each dish 
served for lunch, one soon loses sight of the motive when one sees the 
value of the ser^dce rendered in the above mentioned ways and the grati- 
tude felt by the recipients. 

Needless to say, the dietitian can also take charge of the lunches for 
persons on a special diet. An office force is not necessarily large to have 
many persons who are dieting for one cause or another, and it takes but 
httle foresight to help these patients out of their difficulties. The 
manager who has diabetes is very grateful for a little variety in his 
limited diet, or a girl with colitis appreciates having somebody who will 
be interested in seeing that she has proper food; also there are many 
persons who through ignorance are not dieting but should be. A httle 
personal interest and solicitude for the cases that reveal themselves 
day by day will work many cures, and thus contribute largely to the 
loyalty and efficiency of the employees. 

A dietitian has many other opportunities to advise and teach. Fre- 
quently she will be consulted by an employee as to the proper food to 
serve at a church supper or party in which the employee is interested. 
At such times a good lesson may be taught on food values, balanced 
menus, and economy. This is perhaps the most important service a 
dietitian may perform, though there are so many opportunities, of such 
varied types, constantly presented that it is hard to distinguish the 
greatest. In these and many other ways a dietitian's work in an office 
restaurant is capable of giving her the highest satisfaction one can 
know — that of being of real service to one's fellow beings. 



1917] THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION 123 

THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCL\TION 
Cincinnati, October 24-27, 1916 

Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong consented to represent the American 
Home Economics Association at this meeting, and sent a full and in- 
teresting report that can be given here only in part. One needs only to 
glance over the program, with its many vital topics, to realize how im- 
possible it would be for us to give any adequate report even of such 
matters as are more or less directly related to our own work. 

Such topics as Saving Sight, Saving Citizens; Birth Control; Infant 
Welfare; the Control of Public Milk Supplies; Water Supply; Sewage 
Disposal; the Collection and Disposal of Wastes from Small Munici- 
palities; Cold Storage; and many similar ones meet one's eye on every 
page. 

Mrs. Strong says: 

Upon those of us who were privileged to attend the forty-fourth annual 
meeting of the American Public Health Association in Cincinnati, the im- 
pression was deeply made that Home Economics in its several phases is an 
integral part of the Public Health Work. It was surprising and gratifying 
to have frequent allusion made to the necessity for instructing the house- 
wives, children, and the public in general in school and laboratory. 

Dr. H. E. Barnard, Indiana State Board of Health, said: 

Whenever the average person thinks of food inspection, or of any of our 
work in "food control," they immediately think of food adulteration. Usually 
they stop thinking at this point. However, the matter of food adulteration 
is of secondary importance now. Adulterated food is a comparatively in- 
frequent thing. We do still have to deal with the questions of contamination, 
illness among food handlers, typhoid carriers, and bad sanitary conditions, 
but the important thing now is to educate the people as to what foods pro- 
duce the best results from the nutritive standpoint. 

Dr. Carl L. Alsberg, of the Bureau of Chemistry, in discussing the 
Public Health Aspects of the Work of the Bureau of Chemistry explained 
the use of the term adulteration. 

The law applies the name to certain violations which have no direct effect 
on the public health. For instance, the substitution of a cheaper, although 
equally wholesome product, for a more expensive, but no more wholesome 
and no more nutritious, product is termed adulteration. For example, a 
large manufacturer had sold a mixture of honey and invert sugar under the 



124 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

name of honey. Chemically speaking, invert sugar is more nearly pure than 
honey. Nothing less wholesome, nothing less nutritious had been substituted. 
There was no direct effect on the pubUc health. However it was an offence 
against the pubUc purse — a plain case of steahng — a fraud with no relation 
to public health. This was an adulteration under the foods and drugs act, 
and is an example of the most common form of adulteration. 

Water is the most common adulterant. A large percentage of cases in 
which prosecutions are made are for the adulteration of foods with water. 

The law defines an article as adulterated if it contains "an added deleteri- 
ous ingredient." Now, the manufacturer does not intentionally add a large 
quantity of a \^ulent poison. Usually we have to deal with careless con- 
tamination of food products rather than with willful offence. A food product 
is adulterated if it contains traces of lead, copper, zinc, etc. Perhaps the tin 
coating of the vessel has worn away and the lead lining has been exposed 
without the manufacturer being aware of it. The products are never-the- 
less adulterated. The law must compel manufacturers to be more careful 
in the handling of foods. 

There are a few cases of the willful addition of harmful substances to food 
products, but they are very few now. The commonest example here is the 
addition of methyl alcohol, a poison, to certain liquors. 

Another type of cases defined as adulteration is that in which articles of 
food are spoiled or have undergone some form of decomposition. This part 
of the law is capable of a very broad interpretation. In this way it is possible 
under the food and drugs act to proceed against inter-state shipments of 
milk, decomposed canned goods, and other products. 

Dr. Alsberg also spoke of a series of problems in connection with the 
nutritive value of fats and oils. We really know very little of the nutri- 
tive value of the hydrogenated oils — such products as the many cook- 
ing fats produced by hN-drogcnating cotton seed oil. 

Lucius P. Brown, Director, Foods and Drugs, New York City, in 
discussing the Municipal Food and Drug Inspection in large cities said 
that: 

A fairly complete census of the food handlers in New York City made a year 
ago showed 50,000 retail food stores, or about 1 to 110 inhabitants. Smaller 
cities have a large number in pro[K)rlion to the population. This gives some 
idea of the problem of controlling a municipal food supply, which must in- 
clude the following: 

A. Sui)crvision of sanitary conditions of manufacture and distribution, 
including transportation, display, and sale. 



1917] THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION 125 

B. Prevention of sale of unsound foods, foods from diseased animals or 
plants, foods carrying pathogenic microorganisms, foods poisonous in them- 
selves. 

C. Prevention of sale of foods which have been adulterated, misbranded, 
or advertised better than they really are. 

The discussion brought out the importance of the selection of the 
personnel to enforce the laws. Food inspectors must be possessed of 
sanitary knowledge and common sense. They cannot be selected by 
civil service examination alone. Courses in food and drug control 
established in the state colleges would greatly increase the efficiency 
of the governmental agencies. 

Royal S. Meeker in discussing the Relation of the United States 
Department of Labor to Industrial Hygiene quoted Dr. Goldwater in 
his statement that industrial hygiene has to do w^ith hours, muscular 
and mental strain, temperature, light, air, sanitation, wages, food, 
beverages in the home, and home conditions. 

The Sociological Section held one joint meeting with the section on 
Vital Statistics, at which the Application of the Statistical Method to 
the Field of Socio-Health Investigation was discussed by Dr. Louis I. 
Dublin, New York. 

The need of careful, accurate work was emphasized and these errors 
frequently met with in the literature of public health work were criticised. 

Errors in the planning of the inquiry, preparation of the schedule, 
collection of the data. Errors in the editing and classifying of the data. 
Errors of interpretation and analysis. 

Mr. Franz Schneider, in a paper on The Shortcomings of Socio- 
Health Investigation, cited .the mis-use of statistics, for instance: 

We have no satisfactory evidence of the relationship between housing and 
health, yet well-meaning persons are continually quoting statistics proving 
that certain housing conditions are responsible to a certain degree for certain 
conditions. This is not a situation demanding statistics, and certainly not 
a situation where one with any knowledge of statistical method would dare 
to dabble in statistics. 

We should carry on investigations in a scientific spirit, not in the spirit 
of propagandism of the social enthusiasts. The failure of social science to 
win recognition is a failure common to all the other sciences. We must guard 
against hasty judgments. Not many minds are of the unified type to carry 
on such investigations. However the work is so filled with human interest 
that everybody does dabble. We do not observe without passing a moral 



126 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

judgment and so the investigation sufifers. Let us have les"- assertion, less 
feeling, more science. Keep the emotions out of sanitary science. 

One valuable paper was on Some Recent Tendencies in Scientific 
Studies of Foods, and Their Practical Significance, by Dr. H. D. Pease, 
New York. He referred to the predictions of Malthus in regard to the 
relationship of the increase of food supply to the increase in population 
of the world, asking how can we make our food supply keep pace with 
our population? He suggested conservation of food sources, extension 
and intensifying of production and utilization in every possible direction ; 
discovery of new sources of supply; more scientific use of the existing 
and of the still to be developed supply. 

The present war will necessitate utmost conservation and further 
development of the world's food supply, and will put production and 
distribution of the food supply on a more scientific basis. 

The fundamental problem involved in the quantitative and qualita- 
tive aspects of the present supply is: more food products, better and 
more efficient handling, more economical and scientific selection of the 
diet, best methods of preserving and increasing soil fertility. 

Mr. Richard A. Feiss, the Clothcraft Shops, Cleveland, discussed 
Scientific Management and its Relation to the Health of the Workers. 

Among other things he emphasized the need of a complete medical 
department free to employees, with nurse, doctor, dentist, ocuUst (this 
stops inefficiency and saves time) ; of instruction given and work fol- 
lowed up concerning health; of proper diet, with good food provided 
and served to employees; of education and follow up work in the home. 

In a symposium on Public Health Nursing, Miss Mary Beard, Presi- 
dent of the National Organization for Public Health Nursing, made an 
interesting and forceful plea for the union of the two branches of health 
nursing, public and private. 

As to the question whether there should be dilTerent nurses for difTer- 
ent purposes, such as prenatal nurse, and school nurse, Miss Beard is 
sure that more good will be accomplished by combining these various 
phases of the work and giving them to one nurse, who will then work in 
a smaller district, than of having several nurses working in larger 
districts. This involves the "Health Center" idea, which meiins form- 
ing small units in the cities cared for by one or two persons. In this 
way, since there is only one nurse in a certain district, and she is there 
continuously, .she is able to become better acquainted with the families 
and their problems, and can establish a closer relation of confidence. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

WOMEN AND CLOTHES 
What the Clubs are Doing in the Matter of Standardization 

helen louise johnson 

At the Biennial Convention of the General Federation of Women's 
Clubs held in Chicago in June, 1914, the following resolution was pre- 
sented and passed: 

Resolved, That this Convention, in full recognition of the rights and priv- 
ileges of the individual, places itself on record as heartily in favor of the 
movement for simple, becoming, and modest designs in women's clothes. 

It is one thing to prepare and present a resolution. It is quite dif- 
ferent and usually far more difficult to carry out its provisions. This 
particular one was referred to the Home Economics Department of the 
Federation, whose business it then became to actively promote the 
movement the resolution had recognized. But was there any real move- 
ment toward more "simple, modest, and becoming styles in women's 

clothes?" 

A movement means that public opinion has been sufficiently roused 
so that a considerable number of people are not merely talking about, 
but actively interested in promoting the same thing. Mere agitation 
is not a movement. A movement means concerted action. 

The first thing to be determined was whether there were enough 
women desiring to be released from the tyranny of the ever increasing 
changes of style so that concerted action toward actual freedom could be 
counted upon. 

There were two groups of people whose aims, methods, and purposes 
needed to be investigated and analyzed; those who present, make, and 
sell styles, fashions, and garments; and those who choose to wear them. 
Were we, as so many believe, the mere puppets of a mad thing called 
Fashion, or did we decree that we should appear in sheathed or 
pleated, plain or flounced, long-waisted or no-waisted garments, all 

127 



128 THE JOUENAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

in too short a time for even the shoddiest material to wear out? Yes, 
there was protest at this waste and misuse of valuable time, strength, 
and money, but from whom and from how many did it come? Was 
tliere any definite action that could be taken? 

As soon as our investigations began, we found an almost unbelievable 
amount of unrest and dissatisfaction at the prevailing condition of things, 
not alone among busy women who can no longer spend time in the 
pursuit of dress, but also in the garment trade itself. We also had 
belonged to those who fancied the mysterious influence called "They" 
resided with the makers and fashioners of our clothes. To be con- 
fronted with the incredible statement that we are "They" was startling. 
But it is true. 

Again and again have we been told that consumption is the economic 
function of the woman. Over and over it has been repeated that pro- 
duction is governed and controlled by consumption; that we choose 
what shall be grown, made, and presented for sale. And having ears 
we hear not. Yet it is so simple, so plain a fact. Production of a 
commodity ceases when the consumer or user chooses something else. 

An illustration will make this plain. Somebody somewhere made a 
Teddy Bear. It was tentatively presented for sale, that is, for con- 
sumption. Then people began to choose Teddy Bears, and the de- 
mand created a supply, while the choice seriously, in some places dis- 
astrously, affected the doll trade. Had dolls continued to be chosen, 
the Teddy Bears would not have been made. 

It is our somewhat complete failure to realize the truth that choice 
always precedes production that has led us into so many economic er- 
rors. It may be that it is not presented in the way to make the user 
appreciate that she is a free agent, while the producer to win his living 
must make what she demands. Whatever the reason for our failure 
to measure our responsibility in this matter, the fact remains that there 
are but two great fields of economic activity, namely, the making of 
things and the using of them, and it is our choice in the use of them 
that regulates their making. 

It is hard to believe, for we go into a great store and are there con- 
fronted with a huge stock of goods in which we have but slight interest. 
We are seeking a certain kind of shoe, of coat, of dress, and we cannot 
find it. We are told that we choose, yet we cannot tmd the thing we 
want to buy. 

Hard as it may be to accept, ditlicult as it is to believe, it is never- 



1917] WOMEN AND CLOTHES 129 

theless a fact that demand does precede supply, and if an article is no 
longer chosen, its production ceases. We do not see it because the 
choice is so far away from the immediate offering for sale, and it modi- 
fies production so gradually. Things are made in view of an anticipated 
choice. 

Some of it is forced upon us, but rarely by the producers. Their sole 
aim is to make or produce a desirable commodity, that which people 
want the most, and will therefore buy. If you and I could steadily 
refuse to buy or choose that thing which we do not consider desirable, 
in place of accepting makeshifts, and taking things we really do not 
want merely because they are there, we would soon discover the strong 
and immediate effect of our influence. 

The situation in regard to women's clothes presents positive absurdi- 
ties. On the one hand are hundreds of women all over the country re- 
belling against their unfortunate slavery to the vagaries of fashion and 
style, and bitterly complaining of those whom they feel force these 
changes upon them. On the other hand are the garment makers and 
sellers, wholesaler and retailer alike, groaning under the burdens the 
condition imposes upon them, and they lay the blame upon the con- 
sumers, the buyers, the women. Yet except in some isolated cases, 
neither side is apparently trying to do anything to change the situation, 
or find a solution of common difficulties. 

In order to understand any condition it is needful to know what 
causes it, and our attitude toward dress seems not to have been suffi- 
ciently analyzed. Years ago women made their own clothes and did all 
sorts and kinds of harder things besides. But a dress once made lasted 
for years, not alone because its material was good, but because it 
remained *'in style." Then 'came other changes. Prosperity increased, 
and with it women were released from many of the privileges as well as 
the hardships of household work. Certain activities were carried out 
of the house into the industrial world ; others were carried on by people 
hired to come into the home, and a wide margin of time was released for 
the woman. 

At that period there were neither colleges nor clubs for women. They 
were denied outlets for such intellectual or artistically creative impulses 
as they might possess, and the sort of civic work that now occupies so 
many was practically unknown. So, in order to fill their leisure time, a 
round of social functions was dcN'ised, and for these functions women must 
dress, not merely becomingly, but competitively, each to outdo the other. 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

We do not need to enter into tlie history of the Pursuii of Dress. It 
is especially well told in Dr. Mary Robert Coolidge's book "Why Women 
Are So." We merely refer to the fact that the things we beUeve fashion 
imposes on us, the constant changes in style, the extremes of fashion, 
the time and the money we must all waste simply to avoid looking queer, 
arose from conditions now wholly altered. 

Today women are offered opportunities for higher education. They 
are busy in all sorts of civic, public health, and philanthropic work. 
They have neither the time nor the strength to give to the pursuit of 
dress, and they are very openly rebelling against the seeming dictates 
of the Mogul called Fashion. Moreover, the producers of garments 
are suffering, and the workers are in the worst state of all. The most 
appalling fact the Home Economics Department of the General Feder- 
ation ascertained was the result of the constantly changing styles upon 
the garment makers themselves. 

We found this condition in the best known ready-made style houses of 
the country. Early in the year the styles for the next summer are 
presented to the large wholesale concerns. They must choose from 
these the things they believe may be most acceptable to the women the 
next summer and fall. Then they make up a small quantity. Of course, 
in the aggregate, this would mean many thousand garments, because 
they are sent all over the country, and tentatively presented to the 
women early in the spring. Meantime the workers are unoccupied. 

Then the orders begin to come from the retail houses. Such and such 
things seem to be going. The women have chosen to wear certain 
styles. The workers are called back into the factories, and are pressed 
at top speed to produce enough of this particular garment to fill that de- 
mand. It is neither a steady nor a lasting one. Within a very short 
time a slackness appears, and the factory is again dei^lctcd of its work- 
ers. Then another demand comes, and they are called back to repeat 
this process. 

There is a fundamental difference between the men's and the women's 
ready-made garment trade. Trousers, for instance, exhibit very little 
difference in cut or style. There are certain styles of men's garments 
which are never out of fashion. These can always be made, because there 
is always a demand for them. The consequence is that while even 
the men's garment trade is a seasonal employment, keeping the makers 
busy for five months, then a slack time for four or six weeks, then run- 



1917] WOMEN AND CLOTHES 131 

ning five or six months again, with another short slack season, it does 
not exhibit the vagaries of the women's garment trade, which is an ex- 
tremely seasonal employment, with all the evils that result from such. 

Suppose you and I were working for eight or ten dollars a week, and 
were able to do this for January, February, and March, then were put 
out of the employment with which we were familiar, at the same time 
that hundreds of other people were put out of the same employment, so 
that it was quite difficult to find anything else to do, and that we re- 
mained idle for April, May, and June. How much could you save to 
carry you through the three remaining months if you worked for three 
months on eight dollars a week? How strong and capable of working 
would you be on the kind of food you could get during those three 
months? And suppose you were called back in the hot days of August 
and September to speed up as fast as possible, because the women of 
this country had chosen to continually change the style of their 
garments? 

I want to say there are no words of condemnation that I beheve too 
strong to characterize the ignorance or selfishness of the women, who 
without a thought of the people who make their clothes, are willing to 
be led by a thing they call fashion. It is ridiculous that we should lack 
the courage to as completely standardize our street clothes as men have 
standardized theirs. It will not put the dressmaker or the custom 
tailor out of business any more than the men's custom tailor has been 
done away with because so many men wear ready-made clothing, and 
all men dress more or less alike. It has nothing to do with the personal 
adornment of a woman in her own home, in her evening, dinner, or party 
gown. She can express all the personality she desires in such things, 
but if we are to honestly think of the other woman in a fine, true and 
womanly kind of way, the time is here when all of us have to make up 
our minds that we are willing to free ourselves from the dominion of a 
belief called "They." 

One cannot too often say that the women choose what shall be made 
and worn. You choose. I choose. We choose. We are They. And 
if enough of us throughout this country will only realize the necessity, 
for the sake of the other woman, if we cannot think of it for our own 
selves, for adopting at least some certain forms of street suits which can 
always be made, a lot of this economic waste of time, strength, and 
money can be saved. 

There are two definite responsibilities consumers bear. One is that 



132 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

certain things are made at all, and the other, the conditions under which 
they are made. We ought, either as home economics teachers and 
preachers, or as workers in the General Federation, not alone to reaUze, 
but to perform our responsibility toward others. Our own example, 
what we are doing, is never an insignificant thing, no matter how little 
influence we may fancy wc have or exert. And it is an established fact 
that what women buy and use directs and modifies the procedure of the 
producing world. 

Moreover, it is our duty, as well as our privilege, to look as well as we 
possibly can. Our personal adornment, our appearance, can no more 
properly be ignored than our good manners. It is part of the actual 
business of being a woman, only there are too many who mistake the 
purpose of clothing and the reason why we must properly and becom- 
ingly select that which expresses us. 

This seems to have taken us far away from that resolution, but it is 
merely directing us toward the path the Home Economics Department 
of the General Federation had to follow when the resolution was re- 
ferred to it. We had first to determine what was actually occurring in 
this matter of dress, and what had led to the very uneconomic and con- 
stant changes of style, in order to see what could be done to accomplish 
our purpose. 

Our purpose, our aim, was and is nothing less than a freedom from a 
kind of slavery. I want to make this perfectly clear. Can we define 
freedom? Are there words to make this spiritual idea a living reaUty? 
Freedom is a much nobler word than liberty. We are at liberty to dress 
much as we please. 

Whether we are free to do so or not depends upon other things than 
the law of the land. Will you agree that complete personal freedom 
only comes when every inner force has been developed to its hichest 
efficiency? Freedom is the result of a complete command of one's re- 
sources, and the power to use them at will. It is an ideal, and perhaps 
has never been attained. But in the degree in which anyone of us ap- 
proaches this, she has secured her own freedom. And freedom is bought 
with a price. We are only masters of circumstance when wc are cap- 
tains of our souls, when we have the courage to be free. It was Emer- 
son who said that character is our only definition of freedom and power. 

But I want to put it in another way. There is a fixed necessity of 
life to give a certain amount of time, strength, and thought to the needs 
of the body. This cannot be escaped, hence it follows that the better 



1917] WOMEN AND CLOTHES 133 

this slavery is performed, the more freedom; the more it is ignored or 
abused, the worse slavery. Freedom represents that margin of time and 
strength left for other and better things after the necessities of life have 
been cared for. The problem of economics today is how to provide 
most perfectly for fundamentals so as to have the largest margin of time 
and strength, and money also, for the more human things. Shelter, 
food, and clothes are in the main under our control, and if I had to state 
what I considered the greatest factor in the gaining of these with the 
least expenditure of time, strength, and money, therefore with the 
greatest amount of freedom, I would say it was a certain attitude of 
mind toward the subject, a sense of responsibility, a realization that 
the use of these things involves a moral, an ethical ideal. More, it 
involves the very thing which has been voiced as the great inspiring 
spirit of club work, namely, service. For it is not enough that we voice 
moral principles and elevating ideals, and put the concrete subjects 
relating to these on our programs. This can avail but little, unless we 
can embody them in practical rules of conduct which we observe in our 
daily lives. Our knowledge must be converted into social standards 
to which all must conform. 

The amount of freedom we may get depends to a degree upon the 
clearness with which we can measure the relative value of those things 
that afifect our daily lives, the things we choose to buy, to use, to eat, 
to wear, and to live with. And it is our failure to make these compari- 
sons, to measure, to see the thing itself in its relationship to us and to 
our surroundings that leads us to economic disaster, or a wrong attitude 
of mind. 

When the Home Economics Department of the General Federation 
began its work along these lines, it issued a small pamphlet for club 
study, from which I quote: 

There are many reasons why we urge upon all club women, not alone a 
study of this situation as it presents itself at this time, but a determination 
to meet it in sane and proper ways. First, because we earnestly believe that 
this is one of the vital steps in securing that standard of refined and womanly 
Uving which should mark this period of our club life. 

Second, we know it to be necessary to the lessening of the economic pres- 
sure burdening so many thousands in our great and beautiful and fertile 
land. 

Third, we are our sisters' keepers. The habit of following extreme and 
quickly vanishing style creates great hardship for those who produce as well 



134 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

as wear ready-made garments. The women who demand the ultra fashion- 
able in dress should be brought to consider the effects of this upon the hves 
of those who must wear what can be bought and whose clothes are worn 
until they wear out, all too quickly at the present time. 

There can be no question as to the effect and influence that the General 
Federation of Women's Clubs can have over things of this kind. This De- 
partment deeply and sincerely desires and hopes to rouse earnest discussion 
of the situation and what we can do to meet it in the best and most womanly 
ways. We believe the time is here for us to demand and secure common 
sense as well as beauty in clothing. We believe it to be essential to the con- 
tinued peace, prosperity, and progress of our country, that we who represent 
organizations and high aims should say, not one or two but all of us: "We 
stop this extravagance and absurdity in styles and changing fashions right 
here." 

How may we do this? 

What we may do is to follow the example long ago set by men, and 
more completely standardize our street clothes. Standardization is 
not a uniform. It is a principle. Men have not adopted uniforms ex- 
cept in places where they wish to distinguish themselves from others, 
and for such purposes women have uniforms as well. A soldier's or a 
nurse's uniform is a mark of honor, and a woman's street clothes should 
mark and show her nobility, her womanliness, and not her servile imi- 
tation of some one else unworthy of example. 

Some years ago the majority of well-dressed women wore plain tailor- 
made suits on the street. There should be enough women desiring 
these at all times to make such well cut and made suits what is called a 
"filler," that is, they should be made between times in the dull season. 
But because of many things which there is not space to discuss, some 
having to do with the real art which a woman's dress should 
evince, that extremely plain garment is not the only one that may be 
selected for standardization. There should be several selections. The 
trouble is there is now not one. We can afford to have changes of style 
and cut and certain extreme things for extreme people if only the ma- 
jority of women like the majority of men are choosing and wearing 
some one. two, or four kinds of suits or dresses. 

At the Biennial Convention held in New York City in June, 1916, 
the Home Economics Department presented what has come to be called 
the Biennial dress as one of the solutions of our troubles. The selec- 
tion of this particular dress was made by a number of men and women, 



1917] WOiTEN AND CLOTHES 135 

designers, producers and consumers, who met in consultation and felt 
it presented principles worthy of standardization. 

The factors that determined our selection of the dress now called the 
Biennial suit or Biennial dress were these. We had to select a style 
that would be becoming to any one when properly modified and adapted. 
This one is. We had to select a style that could be made either as a 
suit or a dress. This can be. It must be capable of reproduction in 
any kind of fabric; cloth, silk, light or heavy weight, thin or thick. 
And this Biennial dress has been and is made in crepe de chine, voile, 
crepe, serge, silk, taffeta, charmeuse, and so forth. The style chosen 
was arbitrarily selected by a number of people in consultation, but only 
because it conformed to certain principles, was attractive, artistic, 
good, and, moreover, hygienic. 

The actual test as to whether enough women desire this freedom to 
make it a movement, of course, will not come this year, or perhaps the 
next one, but the year after. It is not in inducing women to realize 
that standardization is a principle, and not a uniform, and that we are 
really fighting for that freedom which all crave, an opportunity for real 
self expression, but in keeping them alive to that realization. A few 
will appreciate all this means, but it is only as we win and hold the 
many that this resolution will prove to be true, and there will grow to 
be a real movement. Now there is a deal of talk, and there are for- 
tunately many throughout the country who are suggesting different 
forms of standardization and giving form to different ideas of it. But 
this talk must converge into concerted action, and there must be 
thousands of women who will purchase their street suits in the way 
men do theirs, to last, and to be like, not unlike the other woman. 

It must be done, for it is a moral, not a fashion issue. It is a civic 
duty, an ethical responsibility, which honest thinking women can no 
longer avoid. 

There is not a question but that our habiliments influence our be- 
havior. We know that. We want and need art and beauty in our 
clothes. To a degree these have been given us in the past two or three 
years. Extreme use of any style is neither art nor sense, and does not 
lead to beauty. But there have been special commendable features 
in the garments we have so recently been wearing. Freedom about 
the neck, throat, and chest is as hygienic as freedom about the waist, 
and we have had both. The plain, close fitting, sensibly short skirt is 
sanitary, economical, and convenient. Short sleeves are useful in many 



136 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

ways, and are, when admissible, a source of great comfort and saving 
for many who must work with hands and arms at office or household. 
All of these things should be kept, and they can be if we choose that 
they shall. What it most needs is courage. I cannot do it alone. You 
cannot do it alone, but we can, and if you will, we will accomplish it 
together. 

What we need to do is to study the situation, analyze the conditions 
and its causes, and see what we may do to lead us toward a better pro- 
cedure. Our clothes should be appropriate, suitable, becoming. We 
should dress for our business, and if we are to be beautifully gowned 
we must learn to select first that which fits, or is suited to the wearer, 
and next that which fits or is suited to the occasion and to the 
environment. 

It would seem that the word we ought to use in this connection is 
decorum, that which becomes, and to select that which fits or belongs 
to the street, the house, the office, the kitchen, the opera, the social 
function, but above all belongs to oneself. 



HOME ECONOMICS FUNDS 

It is said that three-fourths of a million dollars are now available for 
Extension Work among Farm Women. This money is derived from the 
United States Department of Agriculture, the State colleges of agri- 
culture, Federal and State cooperative extension act funds, and county 
and other local sources. 

A part of this money is used to employ women county agents. The 
number of counties with women agents has increased during the last three 
years from 279 to 478. In addition there Are employed a large number 
of home economics specialists and supervising agents having a field 
larger than the county. In 1915-16 the total number of home econom- 
ics extension workers was 600, of whom 350 were women county agents, 
the others being the supervising agents and home economics extension 
specialists of the State colleges. 



1917J 



THE HOMEMADE FIRELESS COOKER 



137 



THE HOMEMADE FIRELESS COOKER 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 771, of the U. S. Dept. of Agr., Homemade 
Fireless Cookers and their Use, issued in December, 1916, contains some 
particularly careful directions for making and using the fireless cooker, 
with several illustrations showing the details, not only of the box, but 
of the utensils. To many the greatest convenience of the fireless cooker, 

even more than the sav- 
ing of fuel, is the saving 
of time and thought, 
for foods cooked in it 
do not require watch- 
ing and may be left to 
themselves while the 
cook is occupied with 
other duties. If the 
family is away from 
home it may be used 
without danger of fire or 
over cooking the food. 
Several substances 
are suggested for the 
packing and insulating 
material. Asbestos and 
mineral wool are un- 
doubtedly the best; 
ground cork, hay, ex- 
celsior, Spanish moss, 
wool, and crumpled pa- 
per may also be used. 
Of these crumpled paper 
is one of the most satis- 
factory, except where 
a stone is to be used as an extra source of heat, when it is much 
safer to use non-inflammable material, such as the asbestos or mineral 
wool. A good substitute for these are the small cinders left from coal 
ashes, preferably those from soft coal, though those left from hard coal 
burned in the kitchen range will do. 

A number of recipes with explicit directions for the use of the cooker 
are included in the pamphlet. 




_.._^ 



W^T^^ '""^ 



Fio. 5. — Longitudinal section through fireless cooker, show- 
Ing details of the construction . A, Outside container 
(wooden boi, old trunk, etc.) B, Packing or insulating 
material (crumpled paper, cinders, etc.). C, Metal 
lining of nest. D, Cooking kettle. E, Soapstone plate, 
or other source of heat. F, Pad of e.xcelsior for covering 
top. O, Hinged cover of outside container 



138 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

SWEET POTATOES 

The digestibility of sweet potatoes has sometimes been questioned, 
and an occasional mother has refused to allow her children to eat them. 
A new bulletin, No. 468, issued by the United States Department of 
Agriculture on "Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and Other Starchy Foods," 
says that while not many special experiments have been made to test 
the digestibiHty of sweet potatoes what little work has been done indi- 
cates a degree of digestibiHty equal to that of white potatoes. Any 
difference in the digestibility of the protein is too. slight to be of practi- 
cal importance. 

It is also a matter of common experience that they are wholesome 
and ordinarily digest without distress. The occasional digestive disturb- 
ances that occur may be due to the common addition of large quanti- 
ties of butter to lessen the dryness, thus making a somewhat rich mix- 
ture. It has been suggested by others that the tendency to pack in a 
solid mass may be responsible for this, just as banana or cheese swal- 
lowed "in a lump" offers a difficult task for the digestive organs. In 
either case the difficulty would not He in the charactistics of the sweet 
potato, but in its method of use. The bulletin goes on to say: 

Considering both composiLion and digestibiHty, the nutritive value of 
sweet potatoes is much the same as that of white potatoes and they are 
weH fitted to occupy the same place in the diet and furnish a palatable 
substitute for white potatoes. Their characteristic and pleasing flavor has 
the advantage of giving variety. In the North they frequently cost 
somewhat more than white potatoes, but are stiH among the cheaper vege- 
tables. In the South they are usually cheaper than white potatoes and 
merit their extensive use. 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

A CONTRIBUTION TO THE STANDARDIZATION OF CON- 
DITIONS IN COLLEGE HALLS FOR WOMEN 

ALBERTA BORTHWICK 

Much has been said on the subject of whether the right kind of living 
conditions are found in college halls for women. With a view to find- 
ing what the management was and whether the meals supplied the 
necessary foodstuffs the following questionnaire was sent out to several 
college halls for women, representative of different parts of the country. 

Have you any data: 

1. As to the cost of service per person in a college hall? 

2. As to protein and fuel value furnished per person per day? 

3. As to percentage cost of different food material used per year or 
per month? 

4. As to ash content: iron, phosphorus, and calcium content of food 
served. 

5. As to entire cost of food per month or per year? 

6. As to cost of upkeep per year, including replaced china, glass, linen, 
rugs, furniture, varnish, paint, etc.? 

7. As to nutritive ratio of menu served? 

Only one answer containing any information was received. With 
practically no data as to what was being done in other institutions this 
problem was then worked out in Hamilton Hall, Montana State Col- 
lege, Bozeman, Montana. Absolutely no change was made in the 
regime or in the meals served. The problem was to work out the cost 
of food per capita per month and per day for a period of seven months, 
with the per cent of the income spent for each division of foodstuffs; 
also the expenses of operating, including upkeep and repair. The entire 
food served for eight days has been computed in calorie value, protein, 
CaO, P2O6, iron, acid, and base content. 

The division of foods has been made as follows: meat and fish, includ- 
ing dried beef, bacon, ham, fish, pork, veal, beef, mutton, fowls, sausage, 
Wienerwursts, and bologna; eggs, cream, milk, and cheese; fats, 
including salad oil, lard, and butter; sweets, including syrup, molasses, 

139 



140 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

sugar, honey, jelly, preserves, marmalade; fruits, including all canned 
and fresh fruits; nuts; vegetables, including all canned and fresh 
vegetables; cereals, including flour, bread, crackers, and breakfast 
foods; miscellaneous, including baking powder, borax, coffee, corn- 
starch, gelatin, jello, pickles, condiments, olives, chocolate, cocoa, tea, 
vinegar, extracts, spices and yeast. 

Other divisions are: operating expenses, including telephone, pay- 
roll, fuel, ice, office supphes, soap, and cleaning powders, laundry, and 
light; upkeep, including replaced linens, glass, china, silver, utensils, 
shades, brooms, electric lights, varnish, wax, furnishings, plumbing, 
repairs, and labor for same. 

In working out the following problem all the data have been taken 
from Sherman's Food Products, 1915 edition. No data were found for 
mineral matter in the following: canned tomatoes, canned cherries, 
•canned pineapple, canned apricots, corn flakes, graham flour, jello, pickles, 
preserves, jelly, olive oil, conserves, and canned logan berries. The 
mineral content in the above would raise the average mineral content 
of the dietary. 

SUMMARY 

Average energy value per day 2549 calories 

Average protein value per day 73 grams 

Calories supplied by protein 12 per cent 

Nutritive ratio p>er day ' . . 8 

Average CjO per day 0. 7816 grams 

Average P;Oi per day 2 . 335 grams 

Average iron per day . 0148 grams 

Average base excess per day 10.12 

Expenditures far different classes of food 

per cent 

Meat and fish 32 . 517 

Eggs 5 . 794 

Milk, cheese, and cream 8.377 

Fats 1 1 . 492 

Sweets 7 . 264 

Fruits 12.21 

Nuts 0.275 

Vegetables 8 . 608 

Cereals 5 . 347 

Miscellaneous 7.715 

Cost per day per capita 

Food $0.37 

Operating expenses .17 

Upkeep 04 



EDITORIAL 

The American Home Economics Association and the National 
Crisis. The American Home Economics Association in Kansas City 
passed the following resolution: 

Whereas, The United States is facing a national crisis which may call 
for definite service from her citizens; be it 

Rf solved That the American Home Economics Association, in session with 
the Division of Superintendence of the National Education Association, send 
the following message: 

To His Excellency, the President of the United States, Washington, D. C. 
Sir: 

The American Home Economics Association, the national organization 
of professional workers in home economics, asks to be enrolled by the Presi- 
dent of the United States among the associations at his command for any 
possible service, if need arises. 

Through 

Catharine J. MacKay, 
President, American Home Economics Association. 

This message was telegraphed from Kansas City. 

There are many things that the members of the Association can do. 
First of all they can use every influence in their power, as teachers and 
mothers, to promote that internationahsm that can only come from a 
common understanding of one another's purposes and ideals. They 
can hold before young people, in the name of the home, the vision of 
democracy and of cooperation that will lead toward peace, not war; 
and they can teach that the highest form of patriotism may be developed 
in the daily routine of work. 

Mrs. Calvin, speaking at Kansas City, said that last year there were 
17,000 home economics women in college, besides the 40,000 to 50,000 
women who have already been trained in home economics colleges. 
These are women with the ideals of service. If war comes, their train- 
ing should enable them to help in certain definite ways. It has been 
stated that while Red Cross classes for training in emergency work and 

141 



142 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

nursing are largely attended, those in dietetics have met in some parts 
of the country with little response. The members of the Association 
may need not only to hold themselves in readiness to supply trained 
dietitians, but to lead in giving more general instruction in food. 

Teachers and married women, without deserting their present posts 
of duty, can assist the government by disseminating information in 
regard to needed conservation, and by directing such conservation 
movements so that they will be carried out in the most effective way. 
We must know what government supplies will be least in quantity and 
yet greatly needed, so that conservation is essential, and even the 
sacrifice of personal wants may be necessary. For instance if there 
proves to be a shortage of leather in the United States, it will be neces- 
sary that soldiers be well shod, not women; if there is a shortage of cloth- 
ing material, soldiers must be well clothed though others go without 
the new garment. 

If we could con\dnce the household of the need for conservation of 
food material we should do a service no less effective for peace than 
war. Thousands of tons of butter are imported into this country and 
yet probably an equal amount of usable fat is thrown away. It is 
said that our consumption of sugar for the decade ended 1912-13 was 
42.9 per cent greater than the consumption for the preceding decade, 
while the population for the same period only shows an increase of 21 
per cent. How much of this sugar goes down the sink when the tea 
and coffee cup with its undissolved residue is washed? 

Possibly we have no right to talk about the high cost of living until 
we have learned to use well without waste the resources at our command. 

Many Home Economics women are efficient in handling large quantities 
of food and could handle supplies at base hospitals, as English women 
are doing, and some women who have had special training in sanitation 
and health could report to their state colleges for a month of instructive 
training. 

If the call comes every woman in the United States will feel willing 
to assist in some way. Let us unite in our earnest desire that this call 
may not come! But whether war comes or whether the need lies only 
in the difficult problems that arc offering themselves to the house- 
keeper of today, the members of the Association should be equally 
willing to serve. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JouKNAi, OF Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



A Course in Household Arts. By Loretto 
Basil Duff. Boston: Whitcomb and 
Barrows, 1916, pp. 301. $1.10. By mail 
of the Journal, $1.21. 

The difficult problem of presenting a com- 
plicated subject to the youthful mind is 
found in writing a treatise on Household 
Science for the elementary grades, since 
the life of the child has no training or ex- 
perience on which to build for much of the 
scientific side of the subject, while the prac- 
tical side is rich in opportunity. 

This course in household arts handles 
the subject in an easy and simple style, 
suitable for students in the elementary 
grades, and is unusually good in helpful 
economic suggestions. The experiments are 
well chosen, and adapted to the ordinary 
equipment of the school. The chapter on 
meats is exceptionally well expressed and 
illustrated. That on "Food and the Human 
Body," while founded on excellent authori- 
ties, is probably beyond the comprehension 
of any student in the grammar grades. 
Batters, doughs, and the connected sub- 
ject of leavens, might be treated more ex- 
tensively with profit. On fruits, the author 
deals only with the composition, classifica- 
tion, dietetic value, and the cooking of dried 
and fresh fruits. The canning and preserv- 
ing of fruits, with its opportunity for the 
discussion of bacteria and molds in this 
connection, finds no consideration in this 
other\vise very excellent book. 

EtTPHEMIA E. EVOY. 



From House to House. A Book of Odd 
Recipes from Many Homes. By A. N. 
FuKGERSON and Constance Johnson. 
New York: E. P. Button and Company, 
1916, pp. 291. $1.50. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.64. 

This book is a compilation of recipes rep- 
resenting the famed dishes of \'arious house- 
keepers. The collection of recipes was made 
by a trained nurse as she went from patient 
to patient. The purpose of the book as 
stated by the authors, is to serve the house- 
wife as a "refuge from the commonplace." 
Hence, a different organization from the 
ordinary' cook book has been attempted. 

The plan of the book is that of an ency-, 
clopaedia, subjects being listed alphabeti- 
cally so as to suggest a variety of ways of 
using one food material. Thus, under 
"apples" the reader is referred to other por- 
tions of the book where apples are used in 
the preparation of a dish. Such an arrange- 
ment, were it combined with a page index, 
might be of advantage but in this case 
makes it very difficult to turn quickly to a 
desired recipe. This difficulty is aggravated 
because the alphabetical arrangement is not 
always followed. For example, "calf's head 
soup" is placed after "cheese" dishes. 

The subject-matter of the book lays it- 
self open to some adverse criticism in that 
many of the recipes though undoubtedly 
successful in the hands of the original owners, 
have not been carefully enough edited to 
secure good results in untried hands. For 
instance, the following quotations are typical 



143 



144 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



of the kind of statement frequently found 
which makes one hesitate to urge its use by 
inexperienced housekeepers. 

"Boiled Chocolate Filling: One square 
chocolate, as much milk as you need, sugar 
to taste, 1 teaspoon cornstarch." 

"Baked Apples: Bake in a pan with one 
banana." 

The book fulfills its purpose of helping the 
housekeeper to avoid monotony by suggest- 
ing good variety in some of the t>'pcs of 
dishes most commonly used. The salad 
section is particularly good in this respect, 
variety being gained without the expense 
of much labor, but its use will necessarily 
be limited to those whose judgment con- 
cerning cooking is already trained. 

Mildred Weigley. 

Constriutive Sewing. Book I. By Mary E. 
Fuller. Indianapolis, Ind.: Industrial 
Book and Equipment Company, 1916, 
pp. 91. $0.60. By mail of the Journal, 
S0.65. 

Constructive Sewing is one of three books 
in the Sewing Series by Mar>' E. Fuller, 
Instructor of Sewing, Lucy Flower Techni- 
cal High School, Chicago. It stands out 
as unique in this field of text book 
material. It not only presents the subject 
matter in a simple and logic 1 way, but 
through the use of good illustrations, ques- 
tions, and methods suggested, makes itself 
of particular value. The Students Record 
is espe ially helpful, as it provides for 
"things to do," and suggests that the stu- 
dent keep the record. This record helps to 
secure application of the subject matter 
learned at school, and is an aid in carr>'ing 
it into the home. 

Another valuable feature of the book is 
that it presents more than the technical 
processes of sewing. The subject matter of 
textiles is taught with the processes and in 
relation to the project being made by the 
pupil. 

The subject matter of Book I is such as 
might l>c presented in the seventh and 
eighth grades of the elementary school. 
Anna M. Coolky. 



The Baby — Before and after Arrival. By 
Joseph Brown Cooke, M.D. Philadel- 
phia: J. B. Lippincott Co., 1916, pp. 239, 
$1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

This new book on the mother and child 
emphasizes the effect prenatal hygiene and 
preparedness, as well as skilled assistance 
at the time of labor, has on the safety of 
childbirth. In many ways it is an admirable 
presentation. It gives a very complete ac- 
count of the essential medical features of 
pregnancy, labor and after care, written in 
a not too technical language for the average 
intelligent woman to understand. 

We can heartily endorse much that we 
find here on the "watchful waiting" neces- 
sarj' to make maternity safe. However, in 
the chapters on childbed fever and labor, we 
feel that the approach is too scientific for 
the laity and that the average mother would 
pos?ibly become unnecessarily alarmed from 
this method of presentation. These sub- 
jects are handled less bluntly and quite 
adequately in Slemons' The Prospective 
Mother, Sadler's Mother and Her Child, or 
Davis' Mother and Child, so that we can- 
not feel that Dr. Cooke has replaced or ex- 
ceeded the value of these three books as 
manuals for maternity. 

In giving the dangers to be considered in 
every maternity case, we are surprised not 
to find miscarriage included under this head- 
ing or thoroughly discussed anywhere else 
in the book. \Vc take issue, as usual, at 
an infant feeding schedule which advocates 
two or two and one half hour feedings even 
uf) to four months. It is a surprise Co find 
a man of Dr. Cooke's soundness so far behind 
the views of our best podiatrists or obstetri- 
cians on the value of the long feeding inter- 
val both to the mother and the child. 

Ixraving out these minor points, it is en- 
couraging to find another straightforward, 
thoroughly scientific [popular book on the 
subject of childlx-aring, and to realize that 
maternity is beginning to \>c considered an 
important topic and the health and safety 
of the expectant mother a vital condition. 
Dorothy Rf.ki) Mr.NDr.NnAix, M.D. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the bibliography are welcome. Please send material to the Joxjrnal. 

Foods and Cookery 

The Intrinsic Values of Grain, Cotton Seed, Flour, and Similar Products, Based on the 
Dry-Matter Content. E. G. Boemer, U. S. Dept. Agr. [Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 
32, figs. 3. 

Canning Without Sugar. J. S. Caldwell, Washington Sla. Pop. Bui. 103 (1916), pp. 4. 

Some Possibilities for the Utilization of Low Grade and Surplus Fruit. J. S. Caldwell, 
Washington Sta. Pop. Bui. 102 (1916), pp. 4. 

The Inspection of Canned Foods. W. D. Bigelow, Joiir. Indus, and Eugin. Chem., 8 
(1916), no. 11, pp. 1005-1009. 

The Chemical Composition of Commercial Glucose and Its Digestibility. J. A. VVesener 
and G. L. Teller, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1009-1020. 

Vitamins and Lipoids in Butter and Margarine. J. DeRuiter, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1020, 1021. 

The Determination and Distribution of Moisture in Bread. H. L. Wessling, Jour. 
Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1021, 1022, figs. 2. 

A Polariscopic Determination of Sugar in "Condensed Milk." R. O. Brooks, Jour. 
Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1022-1024. 

Estimation of Sugar in Meat Products, Particularly Extracts. W. B. Smith, Jour. 
Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1024-1027. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Nitrogen Metabolism During Pregnancy. K. M. Wilson, Bui. Johns Hopkins Hosp., 
27 (1916), No. 303, pp. 121-129, figs. 3. 

The Fate of Inorganic Nitrogen in the Metabolism of the Dog. VV^ Caldwell and H. R. 
S. Clotworthy, Biochem. Jour., 10 (1916), No. 1, pp. 14-25. 

Nutrition Investigations Upx)n Cotton-seed Meal. I, Anna E. Richardson and Helen S. 
Green, Jour. Biol. Chem., 25 (1916), No. 2, pp. 307-318, figs. 5. 

The Essential Factors in a Successful Diet. E. V. McCollum, N. Y. Med. Jour., 103 
(1916), No. 18, pp. 838, 839. 

Vitamins and Nutritional Diseases. — .K Stable Form of Vitamin, Efficient in the Pre- 
vention and Cure of Certain Nutritional Deficiency Diseases. A ?,tidtW., Pub. Health Rpts., 
[U. S.], 31 (1916), No. 7, pp. 364-370, fig. 1. 

The Growth of Rats Upon .Artificial Diets Containing Lactose. J. C. Drummond, 
Biochem. Jour., 10 (1916), No. 1, pp. 89-102, figs. 10. 

Obser\'ations Upon the Growth of Young Chickens Under Laboratory Conditions. J. C. 
Drummond, Biochem. Jour., 10 (1916), No. 1, pp. 77-88, pi. 1, figs. 7. 

Acidosis in Diabetes. R. T. Woodyatt, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 66 (1916), No. 25, pp. 
1910-1913. 

On the Digestibility of Bread. — I, Salivary Digestion in Vitro. J. C. Blake, Jour. Amer. 
Chem. Soc, 38 (1916), No. 6, pp. 1245-1260, fig. 1. 

Review of the Literature of the Past Two Years On the Organs of Internal Secretion. 
E. A. Park, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 12 (1916), No. 5, pp. 477-536. 

An E.Tperiment in the Feeding of Undernourished School Children. Clara Schmitt, 
Educational Bi-Mo., 10 (1916), No. 5, pp. 379-390. 

145 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The Relation of Housing to the Public Health Movement. L. Veiller, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 6 (1916), No. 11, pp. 1179-1183. 

The Rural Sewage Problem. E. G. Williams, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 11, 
pp. 1184-1186. 

Urban and Rural Control of the Fly Problem. L. M. McCormick, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 6 (1916), No. 11, pp. 1206-1211. 

Health and Labor. — Fatigue, Efliciency, and Insurance Discussed by the American 
Public Health Association. Alice Hamilton, Survey, 37 (1916), No. 6, pp. 135-137. 

Experiments During 1915 in the Destruction of Fly Larvae in Horse Manure. F. C. 
Cook and R. H. Hutchison, U. S. Dept. Agr. [Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 19. 

Cooling Hot-bottled Pasteurized Milk by Forced Air. S. H. Ayers, J. T. Bowen, and 
W. T. Johnson, U. S. Dept. Agr. [Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 38, figs. 20. 

The Control of Communicable Diseases in Schools. S. Josephine Baker, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1078-1082. 

A Sanitary Study of Condensed Milk. W. H. Park, M. C. Schroeder, and P. Bartholow, 
N. Y. Med. Jour., 102 (1915), No. 22, pp. 1073-1083, figs. 10. 

The Grading of Milk in Small Communities. L. R. Williams, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1093-1099. 

The R6le Played By the Public Health Nurse in the Control of Communicable Dis- 
eases. C. J. Hastings, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1100-1101. 

What Ohio Is Doing to Conser\-e Life in the Industries. V. T. Noonan, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1102-1103. 

Some Practical Methods of Bacteriological Water Analysis and Results Obtained There- 
with. A. V. Graf and A. G. Nolte, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), No. 10, pp. 1109- 
1119, figs. 2. 

Drinking Water on Interstate Carriers. A Condition On Steam Vessels Engaged in 
Interstate Commerce In the Sanitary District of the Great Lakes. J. O. Cobb, C. L. Wil- 
liams, and H. P. Letton, Pub. Health Rpis. [U. S.], 31 (1916), No. 41, pp. 2845-2867, figs. 16. 

The Ph>'sical Care of Rural School Children. T. Clark, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 31 
(1916), No. 40, pp. 2759-2764. 

Miscellaneous 

The Bedbug. C. L. Marlatt, U. S. Dept. Agr. [Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 12, figs. 4. 

"White Ants" as Pests in the United States and Methods of Preventing Their Damage. 
T. E. Snyder, U. S. Dept. Agr. [Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 20, figs. 14. 

How to .Attract Birds in Northwestern United States. W. L. MoVtee, U. S. Depi. Agr. 
[Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 12, figs. 11. 

A Study of the Electrolytic Method of Silver Cleaning. H. L. Lang and C. F. Walton, 
Jr., U. S. Dept. Agr. [Div. Pubs. Circ], 1916, Oct., pp. 12; Jour. //. E. 8 (1916), No. 8, pp. 
418-421. 

(RcjKjrt of Extension Work in Home Economics]. Edna N. While. Agr. Col. Ext. S*rw. 
Circ. [Ohio .State Univ.], 2 (1916-17), No. 2, pp. 15-17. 

Running Water Pos.sible for Every Country Home. R. U. Blasingame, Ala. Polytech. 
Inst., E,xl. .Serv., Circ. 4 (1916), pp. 18-31, figs. 7. 

Ceramics.— The Constitution and Microstructurc of Porcelain. A. A. Klein. J»ur. 
Waskintton Acad. Set., 6 (1916), No. 19, pp. 6S8-<i60. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The National Housing Association. At 
the request of the Council, the American 
Home Economics Association has, whenever 
possible, sent a representative to the meet- 
ings of such associations as deal more or 
less directly with matters relating to the 
home and its interests. During the year 
delegates have been appointed for the Na- 
tional Housing Association, Providence, R. 
I., October 9 to 11, 1916; for the Infant 
Mortality Association, Milwaukee, October 
19 to 21, and for the Public Health Asso- 
ciation, Cincinnati, October 24 to 27. 

Through a necessary change of plans the 
delegate to the National Housing .\sso- 
ciation was not able to be present, but a 
report of the meeting was sent by Miss Ade- 
laide M. Abell, of the Providence Technical 
High School. 

The conference held a three days' session 
at the Narragansett Hotel. An address of 
welcome by Mayor Gainer and the report 
of the year's progress opened the meeting. 

An address on How to Get Garden Sub- 
urbs in America emphasized the impor- 
tance of the proper housing of the working 
man, especially the low waged worker. Mr. 
WilHams said that a solution of this problem 
would do more than any other agency to- 
wards the eliminating of the drink evil and 
pauperism, and of criminality. He ad- 
vocated cottages with gardens in the coun- 
try within a five-cent fare of the place of 
emplojTnent. 

Housing and Health was discussed under 
the topics, The Government and Housing, 
The City and Housing. Dr. Fronczak, 
Health Commissioner of Buffalo, said that 
to correct the abuses of bad housing it would 
be necessary to create a healthy public senti- 
ment; obtain the cooperation of various 
organizations designed for welfare work; 
utilize a complete sur\'ey of conditions ac- 
cording to districts; employ an adequate 



force of inspectors, preferably those with 
some social experience; pass municipal or- 
dinances with specific requirements, and 
with suitable penalties for violations; post 
rules and regulations in each establishment 
for the education and guidance of occupants; 
and supervise and control by the permit 
and license system all tenements, rooming 
and lodging houses, and hotels. 

Section meetings were held on Construc- 
tion with such topics as How to Get Low 
Cost Houses, What Types of Houses to 
Build, on Housing and Health, with a con- 
sideration of Housing and Disease, and the 
Work of the Local Health Department; on 
Management, and the Organization of Hous- 
ing Work; and on Educational Work with 
Special Reference to Educating the Tenant. 

One session was devoted to the apartment 
house under the topics The Menace of the 
Three Decker, and Shall we Encourage or 
Discourage the Apartment House?, and one 
evening session was devoted to Industrial 
Housing, with John Mitchell, Industrial 
Commissioner of New York, as the speaker. 

The American Association for Study 
and Prevention of Infant Mortality. 

.^.t the Seventh Annual Meeting of this 
Society the Secretary of the American Home 
Economics Association served as delegate. 
A large number of Home Economics workers 
were in attendance and several presented 
papers. 

Some of the sessions were medical in char- 
acter, especially that on Obstetrics and on 
Measles, the latter held in coimection with 
the Milwaukee County Medical Society. 

The Session on Propaganda was empha- 
sized by the exhibit that covered the walls 
of the main audience room, an exhibit show- 
ing Infant Mortality work in many states 
and ciries. 

The meeting of the department of Gov- 

147 



148 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



emmental AcliNnties and Vital and Social 
Statistics was devoted wholly to the dis- 
cussion of Infantile Paralysis, showing 
methods for its control and the effective- 
ness of measures taken to prevent its 
spread. 

Nearly even.' session of the meeting dealt 
directly with some phase of the rural prob- 
lem, but this was especially true of the 
section that touched most closely Home 
Economics work, Public School Education 
for the Prevention of Infant Mortality. 
Miss Marlatt, of Wisconsin, presided. The 
discussion dealt with the relation of college 
and extension courses to this work rather 
than %vith the public school, in the ordinary 
sense of that term. 

Dr. Mendenhall, of the Extension De- 
partment of the University of Wisconsin, 
gave an illuminating sketch of her work 
among rural women in educating the mother 
in prenatal care. She made a strong plea 
for hospital facilities for the country woman 
in every county. 

Miss .\my Daniels discussed the relation 
of baby clinic work to the class in dietetics 
and emphasized the work that the properly 
trained teacher of home economics might 
do in showing the rural woman proper 
methods of caring for and feeding the baby. 
Miss .Xgnes Boeing told of her few weeks' 
experience in city hospitals after her course 
in home economics, that helped in equip- 
ping her for such work as Miss Daniels had 
described. 

Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall presided 
over the last session on Rural Communities, 
Nursing and Social Work. Miss Eliza- 
beth Kclley, of the University of Wisconsin, 
presented a paper on Home Problems of the 
Rural Woman, {)lcading for more conven- 
iences and aids io the farm home. Dr. Lydia 
Dcvillbi.ss, Division of Child Hygiene, Kan- 
sas State Board of Health, sf)okc on the 
Problems of the Rural Mother in Infant 
Feeding, and Miss Harriet L. Butler dis- 
cussed Rural Nursing. 

Round tabic conferences and business 
meetings completed the program. 



The Annual ConferiMce of the State 
Agents in Home Demonstration Work 
in the South, and the members of the States 
Relations Service who are connected with 
the administration of the Smith-Lever Ex- 
tension Funds, was held at the Department 
of Agriculture in Washington, December 11 
to 16. 

At this conference reports of work done 
during the past year under the Smith-Lever 
Extension Act were made and plans for the 
extension and development of the work dis- 
cussed. 

In the fifteen Southern states there are 
now 463 state, district, and county agents in 
charge of the extension work for farm wom- 
en. This is an increase of 113 over last 
year. 

The total funds for cooperative extension 
work among farm women for the entire 
United States for the fiscal year of 1916- 
1917 is $755,990.00. Of this amount $532,- 
962.00 is being spent in the fifteen South- 
em states and represents the federal, state, 
and county funds appropriated for Home 
Demonstration Work. This is an increase 
of $165,464.00 over the total available funds 
for extension work for women of the pre- 
\-ious year in the South. 

Under the super\-ision of the state and 
county agents, aided by home economics 
specialists in the Extension Divisions of the 
various State Colleges of .Agriculture in the 
South, about 50,000 giris and 25,000 women 
were enrolled to earn,' on demonstrations in 
their homes. There were reported by No- 
vember 1, 1916, more than one thousand 
Home Demonstration Clubs. 

These Home Demonstration Clubs are or- 
ganizations of women in rural sections whose 
mcml>crs have conducted demonstrations in 
productive industries, in better cooking and 
utilization of farm fo<xl products, and in 
solving problems of household management 
and sanitation. Some notable social and 
community developments have also been 
reported. In stimulating productive activ- 
ities such as poultry rai.sing. farm butter 
making, cfMiprrative marketing of eggs and 
butter, small fruit and winter \'cgctAble 



1917] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



149 



gardening and canning, the county agents 
have had the assistance of extension spe- 
cialists. The making and purchasing of labor 
saving equipment under the direction of 
county agents has contributed appreciably 
to more efficient housekeeping. Incomplete 
reports show that there have been made 
and used during the past year 3155 fireless 
cookers, 2035 iceless refrigerators, 262 wheel 
trays, 4380 fly traps, and hundreds of other 
miscellaneous deWces. The installing of 
more than 300 home water systems in 
country homes has been reported. 

Home Economics Teacher for China. 
The International Committee on Home Ec- 
onomics Teaching has received a request 
from the Secretary of the Board of Foreign 
Missions of the Methodist Episcopal Church 
South, stating that there is an opportunity 
for a domestic science teacher, who will take 
a position in a school in China. Persons 
who might be interested in such an op- 
portunity now or sometime in the future are 
asked to communicate with the Chairman 
of the Committee, Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews, 
Teachers College, New York City, or with 
Mr. F. P. Turner, Secretary of the Student 
Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions, 
25 Madison .\venue, New York City. 

RICHARDS DAY CELEBRATIONS 

The Normal School at Cheney, Wash., 
celebrated Richards Day for the first time, 
early in December. No attempt was made 
to raise money, as there are too many calls 
for that right now. 

A talk was given by one of the Home 
Economics students on the life of Mrs. 
Richards and the scope of the Home Eco- 
nomics work. This was followed by an 
exhibition of sewing, both old and new, 
textiles, standard portions of food, and some 
of the new mechanical devices for lightening 
housework. It was surprising that so many 
beautiful old things could be found in this 
new country. 

The last two hours of the exhibition tea 
and wafers were served by the Domestic 
Science Department. The whole affair was 



considered a success educationally as well as 
socially, and it is hoped something big can 
be done next year. 

The Agricultural and Mechanical Col- 
lege at Stillwater, Oklahoma, gave a 
Richards program and an open meeting to 
which the young women of the College 
were invited. The stage was arranged to 
represent as nearly as possible the living 
room in Mrs. Richards' Massachusetts home. 
Each girl who took part in the program 
was dressed in the style corresponding to 
the period of time represented. These 
young women told about the duties and 
pleasures of Ellen Richards. The various 
periods of her life represented were child- 
hood, girlhood, college days, work in the 
laboratory, home life, public life, and later 
years. Suggestions for the costuming of the 
various girls were taken from the photo- 
graphs given in her biography. In the last 
scene, "Later Years," Mrs. Richards was 
represented as sitting at her desk in her 
home and having an interview with two 
modern college girls, telling them of her work 
in home economics, and the future that 
she foresaw for work of this type. 

At the close of the program, the club 
voted to send $5 to the Memorial Fund as 
its contribution for this year. As this is 
the first year of the Home Economics Club 
in this College, the girls are very enthusiastic* 
and a number of successful meetings have 
been held. 

The Tempe, Arizona, Normal School 
gave a tea and candy sale on Richards Day 
which netted $17 for the Fund. 

Prior to the sale a student addressed the 
school at assembly, giving the students and 
faculty some idea of what Mrs. Richards 
stood for and accomplished. Another stu- 
dent told of the Fund and announced the 
sale to raise money for it. 

The Domestic Science Girls of Coats 
High School, Coats, Kansas, celebrated 
Home Economics Day this year for the first 
time. 



150 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



The program was given in the high school 
auditorium, and in the school gymnasium 
were several booths displaWng foods good 
for the school lunch box, a cereal exhibit, 
old-fashioned cooking utensils, new cooking 
utensils, old and new fancy work, home- 
made candy, gluten flour exhibit. 

At the conclusion of the program and ex- 
hibits, the domestic science girls served hot 
chocolate, pimento cheese sandwiches, olives, 
toasted marshmallow cookies, and mints. 

The Home Economics Department of 
the University of South Dakota under 
the direction of Miss Eva R. Robinson or- 
ganized a Home Economics Association on 
December 4. The following officers were 
elected: President, Genevieve Kelley; Vice- 
President Mae Wilson; Secretary, Alice 
Walker; Treasurer, Mary Clark. The meet- 
ings are to be held the first Friday of every 
month. 

Home Economics Day was observed on 
December 9 instead of December 3. An 
exliibit was held in the Home Economics 
Department. The Home Economics Asso- 
ciation served coffee, ice cream, and cakes. 
The proceeds ($10) were sent to the 
Richards Memorial Fund. 

The Institution Section of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association expects 
to hold its meeting this year at Lake Placid 
Club, Essex County, New York, June 16-19. 
The program will be arranged, as it has 
been in former years, with special reference 
to those who are doing work in connection 
with college dormitories, the Young Women's 
Christian Association, women's clubs; to 
dietitians in hospitals, sanitaria and other 
institutions; to managers of school lunch 
rooms, and cafeterias. 

The Committee is hoping to set aside one 
day — perhaps Saturday, June 16 — for some 
special talks by men interested in large 
problems like that of the commercial hotel 
and large club. With the great attention 
being given today to the housckcc|)ing of 
the modem hotel, there will undoubtedly 
be much of the greatest interest to all 
members of the section. 



As the labor problem has been a most 
difficult one for every institution manager 
to cope with this past year, it is hoped to 
have some experts from the department at 
Washington and at Albany discuss some 
phases of the labor problem today, and a 
marked effort will be made to have several 
who have been working on labor problems 
this year enter into the discussion. 

Requests have come from many of the 
members for discussions on large quantity 
equipment. The Committee is in cor- 
respondence with several who are hoping 
to be at the meeting to present for discus- 
sion some of the essential points of different 
types and kinds of institution equipment. 

Under the chairmanship of Miss Lulu 
Graves, Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland, prob- 
lems of special interest to dietitians are 
being prepared. Discussion will also be 
held on the subject of dietitian service today 
in connection with hospital units of the Red 
Cross. 

Inquiries regarding the meeting or any 
suggestions regarding topics or discussions 
may be sent to the Secretary, Miss Katharine 
Fisher, MacDonald College, Quebec, Canada, 
or to the Chairman, Miss Emma II. Gunther, 
Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Brief Notes. Mrs. Calvin and Miss 
Lyford of the United States Bureau of Edu- 
cation have undertaken a correspondence 
with five thousand teachers of Home Eco- 
nomics who are connected with the smaller 
high schools of the country. They arc plan- 
ning for an exchange among these teachers 
of the best methods and materials which 
have been used by any of them. 

Miss Winifred S. Gibbs has resigned from 
the Association for Improving the Condition 
of the Poor after ten years of most cflcctive 
service, retaining only an informal connec- 
tion, through her students at Teachers Col- 
lege who continue to do field work for the 
ofljce. 

Miss /Mbcrta Rorthwick, whose p*per 
appears this month under Students' Contri- 
butions, is now matron in the dormitory of 
the State College at Fargo, N. D. 



Vol. IX, No. 4 APRIL, 1917 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Ilomemaking. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs Alice P. Norton, EJilor Keturah E. Baldwin, M<iiMg:ni EJiior 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. .\bel .A.n-na Barrows C. F. La^jcwobthy Isabel Ely Lord KATHARi>re Blunt 

Ex-Ojjicio Members— C\tB\usE. J. MacKay, President .\merican Home Economics .Association 
EuuA H. Gl'nther, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler. Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowles, Chairman Extension EMucation Section 

Collaborators — The Officers. Members of the Council, and .Advisers 



CONTENTS 

Pr.xci ICE Houses FOR Stt.'dexts i\ Home Fxonomics Isabel Ely Lord \h\ 

Eqiipping a Diet Kitchen Ruth McNary Smith 162 

\ Suggestion in Regard to the Pri.i'xk xtkin and Usi: or Cakamki. 

G. P. Plaisaure and Helen Monscli 167 

1 UK Value of Textile Chemistry to the Home Economics Student . . Riiilt O'Btien 171 

The Homemakers' Course at Kansas .Agricultural College . . . Mary P. Van /.He 174 

For the Homemaker 177 

I'he British Home Arnold Benncll 177 

Mending 182 

The Soy Bean 183 

The .\dvaxce in Food Prices 184 

Editorial 18.S 

Books and Literature 189 

Bibliography of Home Economics 193 

.\'e\vs from the Field 195 



The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the .American Home Economics .Association 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIE.S 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittanres should be sent by Draft on .New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics .Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk 

CHANGE IN" .ADDRESS. Notice of chanpe in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
eiiftnge is to take effect. The subscriber's Old .Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New .Address 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathi.dral St., Baltimore. Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post OfTice 



*n 



^ 



V/ 





Jd^ 


^ 


w 


Bk 


w 






* 


TH 


^"V 


Q 


■ 


^ 




' 


"^ 






.i 




7 





iv^' 



^>©M 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX APRIL, 1917 No. 4 

PRACTICE HOUSES FOR STUDENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS^ 

ISABEL ELY LORD 
Director, School of Household Science and Arts, Pratt Institute 

Among those engaged in Home Economics education the term "Prac- 
tice House" has become so familiar that we take it for granted that there 
are many of these houses scattered through the country, especially as 
part of schools training teachers of home economics. It is of this last 
group that certain definite and detailed questions as to the houses have 
been asked, and the results are presented here. 

But a brief summary of the subject as a whole can hardly be omitted. 
The practice house by its name implies an attempt to reproduce home 
conditions (so far as possible) for students of homemaking. It is 
obvious to anyone that home conditions cannot be adequately repro- 
duced in a school. The family group has a unity, a purpose, and a mean- 
ing that must be lacking in any student group. Even the expenditure 
of a "normal" family can be only planned, not made, by the students. 
So far as the food problem goes, there may be actual planning, buying, 
preparation, and serving, but even here it is quite impossible to present 
the problems arising from individual likes and dislikes, from unexpected 
family happenings, from sickness, from financial crises. The physical 
care of the house can be excellent student practice, but it is, and in a 
school must be, a more carefully ordered, less interrupted process than 
in the ordinary house. 

The very number of students to be trained usually means that a num- 
ber are working at one time that would be absurd in a house of moderate 
size, such as would be occupied by the family whose needs are being stud- 
ied. For example, our little eight room practice house at Pratt Institute, 

' Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, N. Y., 1916. 

151 



152 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

whose sister houses have families of four or five with one maid, if any, 
has at one time five house workers, besides the student hostess. Such 
groupings are necessary to get our results, but would be ridiculous if 
we meant them to illustrate the life of the ordinary family. 

All this is stated, not in disparagement of the practice house idea, but 
as a warning that it is useless to strain too hard to make the work 
"exactly like regular housekeeping." The effort should be rather to 
make it typical, to offer such practice as can naturally be given to ad- 
vantage to the student and will prepare her effectively for the home pure 
and simple. After all, if the school reproduced exactly either the shop 
or the home, it would cease to be a school. It does not exist to give 
experience, in any full sense of the term, but to prepare for experience. 

This preparation for housekeeping experience was until a few years 
ago given entirely in the laboratory. The jump from laboratory work 
in cookery to cooking in the home was a big one, and there were many 
falls and bruises in the taking of it. For children it often proved im- 
possible, and it was here that the laboratory work was first supplemented 
by work in rooms fitted up like a home — though too often Hke such an 
abstract home that the result lacked warmth and attraction. The 
unfortunate term "model apartment" was often applied to these rooms, 
which were part of the school building. About the same time (1912) 
the "housekeeping centers" were started. These were a distinct ad- 
vance over the school apartments because they gained reality by being 
in a tenement building or a small, separate house. In some places the 
name "model flat" was used, but that is rapidly being discarded. It is 
dangerous to set up anything as "model" and the term invites criticism 
of all kinds, while the "housekeeping center" and the "practice house" 
disarm criticism by their modesty of approach. 

Many elementary and secondary schools all over the country are 
equipped with this aid to their home economics work, and there are 
many more supported by special agencies, such as the Association of 
Housekeeping Centers in New York, churches, settlements, and other 
organizations for social betterment. 

A very interesting recent development of the idea is in the private 
boarding schools for girls. Several of the best of these, in most cases 
those whose students will probably have large incomes to spend, have 
begun or are planning to begin, courses in homemaking given in a prac- 
tice house. It is significant that the greatest difficulty found by those 
who wish to begin this work is in finding the right woman to have charge 



1917] PRACTICE HOUSES FOR STUDENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 153 

of it — one of adequate training and fine personality, with vision to see 
the possibilities of this opportunity for training those whose problem is 
not how to make the income meet necessary expenses but how to spend 
wisely the large surplus left after the necessaries have been provided. 
This group has a great part in setting the standard of living for those 
who have smaller incomes, and very little has thus far been given them. 
As it has been impossible to cover the whole field in detail in a single 
contribution, the following limitations have been set for this paper: 

1. The data are confined to normal schools, colleges, and universities — 
our sources of teachers of home economics. 

2. Only separate houses are described. The apartment is in some 
places used hke the practice house, but in others is used quite differently. 
No apartments are included here. 

In May, 1915, a questionnaire regarding costumes in cookery was 
sent to the 217 normal schools and colleges having home economics 
courses, as listed by the Journal of Home Economics in June, 1911. 
A letter accompanying the questionnaire asked if a practice house was 
part of the equipment. 

The reply was "Yes" from nine, and later six other names were 
added. A dozen more said that they hoped soon to add a practice house 
to their equipment. A list of questions was sent to the fifteen already 
possessing houses, and the data below are compiled from the answers. 
The colleges and schools are as follows: Berea College, College of 
Industrial Arts (Denton, Texas), Cornell University, Joseph K. Brick 
School, Mississippi State College for Women, Oxford College for Women, 
Pratt Institute, State Normal School (Athens, Georgia), Stevens Point 
Normal School, Stout Institute, University of Nebraska, University 
of Minnesota, University of Washington, West Virginia University, 
Winthrop Normal and Industrial College. As it is not American, the 
Girls Hostel of the Technical College Training School at Christ Church, 
New Zealand, is not included here, but it should not be forgotten that 
our wide-awake neighbor over the seas has at least one real practice 
house. It should be noted that the University of Illinois was — if 
available data are correct — the first to open a practice house (in 1908). 
As this house has now been given up in exchange for an apartment, no 
description of the work is included here. 

The names of the houses have a certain interest. Four are called 
Practice House (one with the alternative title of Domestic Science 
Cottage) , two the Home Economics Practice Cottage, one the Household 



154 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Management Practice Cottage, one Kanahoah, the House of Friends 
(Mississippi), one the Home Economics Lodge, one the Home Manage- 
ment House, one the Demonstration Cottage, one the Demonstration 
Home, one the Model Cottage, one the Model Home, one the John 
Francis Sims Cottage, and one has the alternate name The Penn 
Cottage. 

The houses are owned by the school or college, with the exception 
of those at Cornell, Pratt Institute, and the University of Minnesota, 
and West Virginia University. These are rented. The value of the 
house is given for the following schools: Berea, $500 (a rent of $12 a 
month is charged, I suppose to the Home Economics department, since 
Berea owns the house); College of Industrial Arts, $1800; Brick, $5000; 
Athens, $800; Stout, $7000; Stevens Point, $7500; University of Nebraska, 
$2000; University of Washington, $3000. The rented houses are as 
follows: Cornell, value $3000, rent $150; Minnesota, value, $12,000, 
rent $1100; Pratt, value $5500, rent $570 (including heat and light); 
West Virginia University, rent $216. All except Pratt have detached 
or semi-detached houses. 

These variations in value are partly because of country or city location, 
but hardly comparable, as the size and use of the houses differ much. 

In only four cases, Berea, Denton, Mississippi, and Stevens Point, were 
the houses planned for the purpose for which they are now used. Un- 
doubtedly the other schools have made changes in the houses, but they 
have been in the position of the majority of families, who must accept 
what someone else planned and built. In the furnishing one might 
expect more on the part of the school, but in two cases the house was a 
former student dormitory, not refurnished (Oxford) ; in one furnishings 
from a home economics building were used, supplemented by $124 
worth of furniture bought out of the profits of renting rooms (Nebraska) ; 
and in one the house is rented furnished (Minnesota). In only two cases 
(Denton $800 and West Virginia $300) was a dclinite sum assigned for 
furnishing; and only two more give the cost — Cornell, whose inventory 
at the end of the first year was $785.07, and Pratt, where the furnish- 
ings cost $1373.33, exclusive of the dining room furniture, silver, china, 
and kitchen utensils, which were transferred from a former apartment in 
the school. 

In five (Coraell, Denton, Mississippi, and for tlie new furniture, 
Nebraska and West Virginia), students had the chief part in tlie original 
furnishing. Generally it seems to have been held better to have the 



1917] PRACTICE HOUSES FOR STUDENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 155 

furnishings represent the school ideas and ideals rather than those of a 
single group of students. The houses are apparently generally used by 
house furnishing classes for purposes of observation, but refurnishing 
is, of course, not feasible. Even if financially possible, it would be poor 
home economics. At Pratt all the house furnishing classes go over 
the house in detail, discussing the reasons for and against colors, materi- 
als, types of furniture. 

Eight only have available for all visitors inventories giving cost and 
source of each article — Cornell, Joseph K. Brick, Nebraska, Pratt, 
Stevens Point, Stout, Washington, West Virginia. Athens is to have 
one. One (Oxford) has an inventory with costs, but not source. The 
others have not available inventories. From our experience at Pratt 
the lack of an inventory seems a serious one. Ours is used constantly 
by students, and it is a rare visitor who does not take away a note of 
some item of furniture or equipment, with cost and source, so that she 
can duplicate it with little trouble. It was in order to be helpful in 
this way that in furnishing the house we resisted the temptation to 
"pick up" nice old furniture, which would be easy to us with our knowl- 
edge and opportunities, but not of definite help to the ordinary buyer. 
We therefore chose a good reproduction of a Sheraton table, that any- 
one can get, though we could undoubtedly have found an old mahogany 
table at the same price, and would have preferred it if we had considered 
only our own point of view. 

The equipment with labor saving devices is in each house adapted to 
that type of house and the region. No attempt is made to have a 
complete set of labor saving devices — if there is such a thing — but 
only those that the family likely to live in that house might reasonably 
have. This is, of course, as it should be. 

The use of the house dififers so much that comparisons can hardly be 
made. For outside care the students are in no case responsible. For 
the inside work the arrangements are as shown on the following page. 

In eleven cases the students carry their regular work while they are 
doing Practice House work; in one (Minnesota) they are allowed 3 
credits for the nine weeks they are there; in one (Mississippi) they are 
allowed 1 credit for the six weeks they are in the house; and at West 
Virginia 2 hours credit for the semester; and in one (Pratt) they con- 
centrate on this problem, carrying during the one week of practice house 
work no other work except practice teaching. 



156 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

4 students for 3 months, 2 teachers Berea 

3 months Brick 

4 students for 2 weeks, 1 teacher Denton 

2 weeks each (future plan) Cornell 

4 students for 4 weeks Oxford 

6 students for 1 week Pratt 

10 students for 6 weeks Mississippi 

1 month Athens 

2 weeks Stout 

4 students for 1 month Stevens Toint 

9 students for 9 weeks (11 boarders) Minnesota 

1 week Nebraska 

2 or 3 weeks Wasliington 

1 semester West \'irginia 

8 students for 8 days, later 4 days more Winthrop 

Whether the students shall carry their regular work or not depends 
partly on the way in which the experience is regarded. If it is only 
supplementary work to that given in the regular laboratories, it may 
be carried on parallel with other work, but even in that case, it would 
seem that enough laboratory work in these subjects should be dropped 
so that this work will not be an addition to the regular — and surely 
everywhere full — schedule of work. The difficulty, of course, lies in 
the making up of work. As only a small proportion of the class can be 
doing the practice house work at any one time, class work must go on as 
usual, and students excused from it must make up the work in order to 
build sure foundations for the future. There is no doubt that this is 
hard, but it seems to us harder to have the student trying to do her 
regular work and at the same time pass the test of tlie Practice House. 

In that expression I have revealed that we do not look on the work as 
supplementary to the regular class work in cookery, marketing, serving, 
care of the house, laundry work, and household administration, but 
rather as an excimination in the students' ability to make a synthesis of 
aU these in actual housekeeping. In our opinion they should give their 
whole attention to this important problem. It is easy to arrange for 
the practice teaching by including in the group students whose teaching 
comes on diflerent days. As the .students shift positions and as the 
laundress has comparatively light work (having only a share of the 
house linen to wash and iron), the student who has practice teaching 
on a given day is made laundress. 

Full details of the conditions and requirements of work are avail- 
able for only two of the houses — Nebraska and Pratt. The Nebraska 
data arc in the form of sheets given the students. These sheets gjve 



1917] PR.\CTICE HOUSES FOR STUDENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 157 

definite directions for each task. At Pratt a sheet of general directions 
is given the students, but the working out of details is part of the stu- 
dents' own problem. Some time before the work begins, the instructor 
in charge of the house meets all the students and explains the general 
plan of work. She asks the students to make their own groups of six — 
having in mind the time of practice teaching — and to choose their 
week. They give her the Ust when it is ready. Six students go into 
the house on Monday morning after breakfast and leave late Saturday 
afternoon. They each take in turn the position of hostess, cook, kitch- 
en maid, waitress, laundress, and chambermaid. The instructor in 
charge of the house eats every meal with the students, and at one meal — 
usually luncheon — all the students sit down with her, and give their 
solution of attractive family service where there is no maid. At the 
other meals there is formal service and only the hostess sits at table, 
with the instructor and two other guests. The invitations are part of 
the regular work, as will be seen from the instructions to students. It 
is probable that next year we shall have formal service and outside 
guests at dinner only. We should prefer to do without formal service 
at any meal, but the students need more practice in this than they can 
get in the school. 

The group, then, prepares 16 meals, 5 for seven people and 11 for 
nine people — 144 single meals. They are given at the beginning of the 
week $19 in cash, and from this pay all food supplies, ice, kitchen clean- 
ing materials, and candles and flowers for the dining table. The per 
capita per meal is thus 13\ cents. They must serve three courses at 
breakfast, two at luncheon, and four at dinner. They must make all 
bread, cake, and pastry used, And must serve once a week certain dishes, 
a frozen dessert, for example. The group plans together for expendi- 
tures, so that left-overs may be used. They thriftily sell to the next 
group anything that is left. Spices and seasonings are furnished with- 
out charge, as they cost little per week, and it would cost much in time 
to account for them. Sugar and flour are bought in quantity, but 
each group pays for what it uses. They have a chance to buy at cost 
the preserves and pickles they have put up in class. Other supplies 
they buy at the local dealers, and as each group supplies only its own 
needs, they can not buy to the best advantage. The complication of 
accounting that would result from reselling other supplies than flour 
and sugar is one argument against it, but a stronger one is that each 
student needs actual experience in marketing. 



158 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The ingenuity of the students in making both ends meet often sur- 
prises even experienced instructors. They serve very attractive meals, 
and no group has ever exceeded the weekly allowance. Some groups 
have 25 per cent left, but most of them have no more than 2 per cent. 
They, of course, present itemized accounts. 

In addition to the regular meals the group serves tea on Friday to all 
guests — and often there is a score of them. Friday is the only day 
we allow visitors at the house while the groups are at work, as it is too 
great an interruption to have them come through the week. When 
this visiting day was first planned it did not occur to me to speak of 
tea, but the student group in the house asked if they might serve it. 
They said it seemed so inhospitable not to give guests something. 
Of course I was pleased at this evidence of the spirit of hospitality, and 
I asked how much they would like me to add to their allowance. "Oh, 
that's all right," they said. "We don't want any more money. We'll 
do it out of what we have." And for the first few years whenever I 
asked an extra guest, as I frequently do, especially when the guest is 
from the home economics world, I always offered to add to the allow- 
ance, and my offer was always refused. The food budget therefore 
resembles that of the usual family, providing for guests without increase 
in cost. 

The mimeographed sheet given each student going to the house is 
included here because it may be of interest to other schools to see what 
we have found it worth while to tell the students. Some of the details 
will doubtless be mirth-provoking as one reads it first, but every one 
has been added from experience — an experience now lasting five years. 

PRATT INSTITUTE, SCHOOL OP HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE AND ARTS 

To Students appointed to practical work in the Practice House: 

The Practice House exists to enable the full-time students in household 
science to carry out the theories, to act on the principles, and to uphold the 
ideals of the School. The students there are at the same time hostesses 
and guests, and should exercise the courtesy required in both these relations. 
The house as a whole should be the c^re and pride of every student. It 
is hardly possible for students to be too punctilious in their observance of 
every rule or tradition of social life. 

Students wear the cookery costume except when on duty as hostess. The 
hostess should wear any simple gown for breakfast or luncheon, but should 
alwa>'s dress for dinner. This does not necessarily ni^n the wearing of 



1917] PRACTICE HOUSES FOR STUDENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 159 

conventional evening dress, but only that a distinct difference should be made. 
A simple white dress is quite suitable. 

Students are asked to bring their own bath-towels, soap (in a case) and 
wash cloths. They need not bring other towels — whether for personal or 
kitchen use — oven cloths, holders, whisk brooms, or hand mirrors. 

Students are requested to exercise great care as to the order of their rooms. 
Clothing, shoes, and the like, must not be left lying about or in sight. A 
sense of orderliness should be the first impression of the house. 

Each bathroom has a cabinet with four divisions, one for the small toilet 
things of each of the four persons using it. Towel racks are provided in the 
gray room, and near the entrance of the top bathroom. No personal toilet 
articles or towels are to be left m the bathrooms. Students working on the 
first floor are to use the toilet in the basement, not the one on the second floor. 

Overshoes may be kept in the closet under the stairs. The umbreUa 
stand is to be used only for wet umbrellas, dry ones being kept in closets. 

Window shades are to be kept at the top of the lower sash except on very 
dark days, when they may be put up all the way. They are to be drawn in 
in the evening. Folding doors should always be either entirely open or en- 
tirely closed. The position of the furniture in each room should be carefully 
studied, and no changes made. Dressing tables and chiffoniers should be 
kept in perfect order. A place for matches is provided in each room, and 
they should never be placed elsewhere. 

Cards are not to be left on the card plate, but given to the instructor 
in charge. 

In showing people the house, show (1) first floor; (2) second floor front; 
(3) top room; (4) brown room; (5) gray room. 

All notes of invitations for breakfast, luncheon, or dinner, are to be sent 
one week in advance. These are to be written in proper form on note paper 
of correct size and submitted to the instructor in charge before being mailed. 
Each hostess will state her home address on her invitations in order that the 
guest may reply directly to her. 

September, 1915. 

The details of the Pratt work are given here because the writer knows 
them well enough to make accurate statements. It would be most 
interesting to have a series of similar statements from the other schools. 

But to return for a moment to the cost of food supplies. For Pratt 
this is as has been stated, 13 j cents per meal, or 39f per day. The 
other figures available give a daily per capita as follows: Berea, 23r 
cents; Denton, 30; Athens, 30; Oxford, 28t; Minnesota, 30 to 32. In 
other cases students pay regular board, but the amount for food is not 
stated. 



160 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The whole expense to the school or college of a practice house is a 
very important question. Where students live in the house for somewhat 
long periods, or where they go there from the college dormitory, the 
students pay regular board, but where the test is a short one and does 
not relieve the student of living expense to any considerable extent (as 
at Pratt), the school must bear it all. Figures are not available for 
other schools, and they are not complete for Pratt, because of the ex- 
clusion from the inventory of the dining room furniture, the silver, 
china, and kitchen utensils, as mentioned before. Also the exact 
figures are not available for the cost of new hardwood floors and other 
changes made at the time the house was opened. An estimate of this 
is, however, given. It should be noted that when there is no group in 
the house, several students are given rooms there, in return for which 
they keep the house clean. 

Cost of Pratt Institute Practice Bouse 

4 per cent interest on cost of furnishing $54.92 

5 per cent depreciation of furnishing 68.65 

Note. — Replacement of small furnishings included in renewals. 

Renewals 50.00 

Rent 570.00 

Light, fuel 40.00 

Telephone 36.00 

Student food •. 228.00 

Extra service (opening and dosing) 8 . 00 

$1055.57 
Rent to instructors 350.00 

Net cost $705.57 

One point about the practice house work that should not be forgotten 
is the opportunity it gives for the teaching and practice of what our 
grandmothers called simply "manners." I am often conscious that we 
fail in our responsibility to our students because we do not give them 
definite instruction as to the accepted forms of courtesy, and that we 
criticize them sometimes for rudeness when the failure to meet social 
requirements is only a matter of ignorance. We ought to give more 
attention to this, and the practice house gives an excellent op[)ortunity 
for observing our success. 

It may seem legitimate to add here what we have planned at Pratt 



1917] PIL\CTICE HOUSES FOR STUDENTS IN HOME ECONOMICS 161 

Institute to give the experience in housekeeping, in addition to this 
test of the Practice House. We value the latter highly, but we realize 
that it can not meet the need for constant practice. For some years we 
have given returning students summer work in cookery, in the hope 
that they would gain in confidence and facility. This work was in 
special problems, such as bread-making, gelatine mixtures, and the like. 
It produced results, but they were naturally limited to facility and con- 
fidence in only a few processes. This year we have changed entirely 
to the plan for experience, and require of each returning student that 
she plan, purchase, prepare and serve three meals a day for fourteen 
consecutive days for a family of not less than four. This experience 
will come before that of the Practice House, and we hope that incidentiy 
it will make the latter work much easier. The Practice House work is 
hard now because it is a sort of examination, and the students are 
afraid of making mistakes. The confidence they gain from the summer 
work should help them here. They, of course, keep careful accounts 
for the summer work, and report on a number of points. 

But to return to the Practice House. There is enthusiastic unanimity 
— or unanimous enthusiasm, as you like — regarding it by those who have 
had one as part of their equipment. As one of the staff at the University 
of Nebraska says: "A statement of our opinion of the practice cottage 
idea would read like a testimonial in a vacuum cleaner advertisement — 
"We have used one for nine months and can say that we would never 
be without one again." 

There is a home feeling for such a house among the students who have 
lived there. Our Practice House has had so many gifts from student 
groups and alumnae — a beautiful bedspread of Italian cutwork, filet, 
and embroidery, Oriental rugs, a beautiful Japanese print, a silver 
platter, silver tray, and other articles that we always call "wedding 
presents," that I have begun to explain to students and alumnae that 
we must not have many more, or we shall be getting beyond the family 
who is supposed to live in such a home. Every student in the school — 
though her work may be as remote from housekeeping as trade dress- 
making — is each year invited to the house to tea. The junior household 
science students go over there for their first experience in serving after- 
noon tea. Once a year the neighbors are invited in for the hospitable 
cup, and each member of our school faculty dines or lunches there every 
year. 



162 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

This description of the Pratt Practice House is doubtless true, in 
everything except detail, of all the other houses. They may be for a 
time a serious matter to the student undergoing the test, but the abiding 
memory is one of an approach to the easy intimacy of family life, and 
the aroma of the gracious spirit of hospitality. 



EQUIPPING A DIET KITCHEN 

RUTH McNARY SMITH 
Formerly Dietitian at Fairmont Hospital, San Francisco 

It is impossible to consider an institutional kitchen and its equip- 
ment separately. Not only must every article be ^purchased for a 
definite purpose, but for a definite place as well. In the case of a 
hospital, the equipment purchased will depend largely upon whether 
there is one central diet kitchen, or a smaller kitchen on each floor, to 
which the cooked food is sent, and there placed upon^trays. The size 
of the institution must also be considered. The type and capacity of 
articles of equipment must be suitable to the maximum^quantity of food 
required. The diet kitchen referred to in this paper was designed to 
serve about seventy-five patients. All vegetables were prepared for 
cooking and most of the meat was cooked in the larger kitchen of the 
hospital, and then sent by dumb waiter to the diet kitchen. Aside from 
this, all the food for the trays was prepared and served in the small 
kitchen, by four nurses and three tray-boys. 

It is no longer considered desirable to devote a large space of indefi- 
nite proportions to the kitchen of a hospital. We have seen the possi- 
bilities of a ship's galley, or the kitchen of a dining car, and might well 
adopt such compactness and efficiency of arrangement. It is not plenty 
of room that is required so much as room so well planned that there 
is neither uncomfortable crowding nor waste space to traverse. Much 
depends on this — the number of cmi)loyccs required, the time necessary 
to prepare anrl serve a meal, and the fatigue which results, legitimate 
or otherwi.se. In the diet kitchen referred to, such was the compactness 
of the arrangement that it was possible to serve seventy trays, consist- 
ing of a variety of diets, in approximately one-half hour. 



1917] EQUIPPING A DIET KITCHEN 163 

The first thing to consider in equipping a diet kitchen, is the selec- 
tion of the larger articles such as the steam table, stove, sterilizer, and 
refrigerator. These should be of such excellent material and construc- 
tion that ten years service will only occasion smaller repairs or replace- 
ment. 

Sieant table. The steam table selected for this kitchen had two meat 
pans and six food receptacles of heavy pottery. Metal or enamel iron 
pots are not an economy. The covers were of german silver which 
looked well but required more care than copper. The lower portion 
was enclosed for the purpose of heating dishes. A steam table must be 
steam tight or it is a failure, as the food is likely to be soggy rather 
than crisp and hot. If it is impossible to use steam from the heating 
system, a gas table may be substituted. 

Stove. A good gas range having six burners, two large ovens, a cake 
oven with glass door, and a broiler, was entirely adequate, with the 
addition of two double plates and a single one. The stove had several 
white enamel surfaces which required frequent cleaning. For this 
reason a plain steel oven would be preferable, unless there was plenty 
of service. It is important that the hood should have an outlet pipe, 
at least one foot in diameter, leading to the roof. 

Refrigerator. A central refrigeration plant with pipes leading to an 
insulated enclosure in the diet kitchen is the ideal. In an institution 
accommodating less than one hundred patients, it is often necessary to 
substitute a separate box. If so, the best is an economy. In this case, 
an excellent refrigerator, covered inside and out with opaque glass was 
used. It was built into the cupboards, thus increasing its efficiency, 
and economizing space. 

Sterilizer. An ordinary dishwasher is not suitable for a diet kitchen, 
as there is always the danger of infection, necessitating thorough sterili- 
zation of the dishes. A cyHndrical receptacle three feet deep and two 
and one-half feet in diameter, having steam steel coils in the bottom, 
was selected, and gave good results. Wire dish baskets were used. 
These were suspended, by means of a heavy steel spring, from a lever 
attached to an arm projecting from the wall above. By means of this 
lever the baskets full of dishes could be lowered into the can of boiling 
water and allowed to remain as long as necessary. The chief advantage 
of this type of sterilizer is its simplicity, and the ease with which it is 
kept clean. There are many other good sterilizers on the market, but 
the^matter of simplicity of construction should always be considered. 



164 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Tray-rack. A necessity in a diet kitchen is a rack to hold the trays, 
in order that dishes and food may be placed upon them. This article 
of furniture requires a good deal of space at best, and so should be 
planned as economically as possible. For sanitary reasons this rack 
should be of metal, but it may be constructed of iron piping, enameled 
white, having shelves made of small wooden rods, one inch in diameter. 
These fit over the iron pipe at intervals of four or five inches. These 
rods may easily be removed and washed. 

Tray-lift. One of the most diflficult problems that the dietitian 
must deal with, in connection with the food in a hospital, is the 
matter of keeping it hot until it reaches the patient's room. The food 
lift should be lined with asbestos and have a metal covering, if possi- 
ble, and be provided 'with some means of supplying heat, as hot water, 
soapstones, or electricity. The heated food truck, while expensive, is 
of great service in keeping the food hot while it is being distributed 
to the various rooms and wards. 

After these larger articles have been decided upon, and the dimen- 
sions taken, the next problem is to fit them into the space in such a way 
as to secure a proper relation to each other and the room itself. Then 
cupboards, work tables, and shelves may be planned. Shallow open 
shelves seem to be best for the storage of food materials and equipment 
constantly in use. Closed cupboards for kettles are improved by the 
use of heavy wire shelves such as are seen in refrigerators. WTiere heavy 
metal utensils are used, these shelves are more durable and more easily 
cleaned than wood. It is important that cupboards and shelves be 
planned for a definite purpose, otherwise many articles will not fit in 
where it would be most convenient to place them. Movable shelves 
held by grooves or metal pins are useful, as they may be adjusted to 
pieces of equipment of various heights. 

Finish of woodwork. In this diet kitchen, the walls to a height of 
four feet and all working surfaces were covered with tile. The plaster 
was covered with several coats of washable white paint. Care should 
be taken that this is not put over a varnished surface, or it will soon 
craze, making cleaning difficult. The woodwork was covered with 
three coats of white paint and enameled with a glass-like finish that was 
easily washed, but required frequent attention. A well finished hard- 
wood surface of natural color is certainly more efficient than the white, 
if not so attractive in appearance. All drawers and shelves were fin- 
ished alike, inside and out, so that papers were not required. 



1917] EQUIPPING A DIET KITCHEN 165 

Floor. Tiled floors while easily cleaned are very tiring. However, 
cork mats help to overcome this difficulty for workers. Linoleum 
is best from this standpoint, but if used, the best quahty should be 
selected, carefully laid, and the surface kept well shellacked. A 
cement-like material, sometimes called German stone, may be substi- 
tuted for either. Care should be taken to secure a good joining of 
the sanitary base and the floor covering. This is very difficult to do 
with hnoleum. 

Cooking utensils. In deciding upon the purchase of the smaller pieces 
of equipment it is helpful to Hst all the cooking processes likely to be 
carried on in the diet kitchen. Ob\iously, many things are unnecessary 
here because certain methods of preparing food are unsuitable for the 
sick. Examples of this type of equipment might be waffle irons and 
pie tins. It requires some experience in doing large quantity cooking 
before one can make a good selection of kettles, pans, and flat utensils. 

A large coffee urn, having a pottery inset, is used in all diet kitchens. 
This should have two parts, one for the boiling water, and the other for 
the coffee. A very satisfactory and less expensive substitute for the 
hot water um was found in a large block-tin pot with a faucet, placed 
on a single gas plate beside the cofi"ee urn. 

For a hospital having one hundred patients or more, it is necessary to 
install a large copper kettle surrounded by steam coils for the preparation 
of soups and vegetables. Also a large vegetable steamer is important. 

A very useful piece of equipment is a large compartment steamer to 
be heated by gas. Rice and custard, important articles of food for the 
sick, can be cooked in this steamer very easily and successfully. 

It is a difficult matter to decide upon kettles, as all materials are open 
to some objection. The ideal cooking utensil is, without doubt, the 
splendid cast nickel ware, which has been imported from Germany. 
This has no disadvantages whatever, except cost, which is not pro- 
hibitive for a large institution. It neither wears out, chips off, melts, 
bends, cracks, nor discolors. If this ware can be secured, the problem 
is solved for at least a generation. Copper, always so widely used by 
French chefs, has several serious objections : while its initial cost is 
perhaps two-thirds as much as nickel, it requires constant retinning ; 
neither can it be used for the preparation of acid foods, and it requires 
a good deal of attention if kept in good condition. Enameled ware of 
any kind is absolutely impractical, especially in a hospital. At the 
request of a dealer, one kettle of the best type obtainable was used in 
this diet kitchen for the purpose of comparison. At the end of one month's 



166 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

constant use it was so badly chipped as to be scarcely usable. After 
careful consideration, heavy cast aluminum was purchased, and has 
given excellent satisfaction. Considering price, durability, lightness, and 
appearance, aluminum is i)robably the best material for diet kitchen 
utensils now obtainable. 

The selection of the right number of large, medium, and small utensils 
requires careful planning. It is necessary to provide eight or ten very 
small kettles holding one quart, or less, for special orders for one or two 
patients. Plenty of double boilers of various capacities, one large 
enough for the required amount of cereal, are doubly useful, as they may 
be used as separate kettles. Wherever possible, small ear-like handles 
are preferable to long ones. All lids should have handles. 

Labor saving devices. Many labor saving devices are only suitable for 
small quantity cooking. One genuine saver of time and efTort is the 
large sanitary potato masher and creamer. Nothing presents a more 
difficult problem than mashing or ricing a large quantity of potatoes. 
A large egg beater attached to the wall is useful. A small motor is of 
great service in turning the large ice-cream freezer. One small article 
found very useful was a revolving grater. It is scarcely necessary to 
refer to the usefulness of such articles as butter brushes and dish scrapers. 
It is necessary to have a good strong beef juice extractor, preferably of 
the type that is screwed down by a large handle. 

Flat equipment. An automatic egg boiler is a useful piece of equip- 
ment. An inexpensive substitute was found in a French frying kettle 
and basket in which two dozen eggs could be coddled at one time. 
J^, It is well to purchase a good supply of spoons, paring knives, egg- 
whips, and other small articles easily lost, broken, or worn out. How- 
ever, only the number necessary for the time being should be distributed, 
the rest being kept locked in a store room. Unfortunately it is difficult 
to purchase certain articles, such as bowl strainers, potato ricers, and 
food turners, which will stand hard wear, so these must be constantly 
replaced. 

Storage of equipment. Most cooks find that it saves time to suspend 
many of these smaller articles from a rack near the stove or work table. 
In the diet kitchen referred to in this paper, open shelves at the side 
of the stove were used as space on which to lay such articles as egg 
beaters and food turners, while spoons, knives, and forks were kept 
near by in shallow drawers, divided into compartments. The arrange- 
ment of these articles in the most efficient manner is a matter requiring 
careful study. 



1917] SUGGESTION IN REGARD TO USE OF CARAMEL 167 

A SUGGESTION IN REGARD TO THE PREPARATION 
AND USE OF CARAMEL 

G. P. PLAISANCE 

Chemistry Section, Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station 

AND 

HELEN MONSCH 

Home Economics Department, Iowa State College 

It is not the purpose of this article to discourage the use of caramel 
or to make the pubHc feel that another item of food is being tabooed. 
However, since considerable attention is being devoted to the furfural 
content of alcoholic beverages, and since furfural is one of the con- 
stituents formed in the dry distillation of sugar,' it seems desirable that 
we know something about this substance. 

Furfural, furfurole or furfuraldehyde, C4H3O . CHO, is an aldehyde 
formed when pentoses are heated with dilute sulphuric acid or dilute 
hydrochloric acid. It yields an intense red dye when treated with 
aniHne salts, and hence has always served as a convenient test for pen- 
toses and pentosans. Many reagents have been suggested for esti- 
mating furfural both qualitatively and quantitatively. Recently Dox 
and Plaisance^ have shown that thiobarbituric acid condenses readily 
with furfural in the presence of 12 per cent hydrochloric acid giving a 
voluminous precipitate, which can be filtered, dried and weighed. Since 
it is volatile with steam, furfural is given off when a substance contain- 
ing it is heated with boiling water. 

The fact is generally known that most sugars will yield small amounts 
of furfural or its derivatives, when they are treated with acids under 
various conditions,' but it does not seem to be generally known that 
furfural, possessing toxic properties, is formed also during the carameli- 
zation of sugar. 

Brunton and Tunicliffe* found that when 0.5 gram furfural was fed 
to rabbits and cats death ensued. Smaller doses caused temporary 

'V. Lippmann, Chemie der Zuckerarten, vol. ii, p. 1206; Sangrorgi, Giorn. farm. Chim., 
62, p. 256. 

•Arthur W. Doi and G. P. Plaisance. A comparison of barbituric acid, thiobarbituric 
add and malonylguanidine as quantitative precipitants for furfural. Jour. Amer. Chem. 
Soc., 38, (1916) pp. 2154-2156. 

*van Eckenstein and Blanksma, Ber. d. deutsch. chem. GesolL, 43, p. 2355; Jour. Chem. 
Soc., 75, 423 and 79, pt. 1, p. 361, and pt. 3, p. 807. 

*Bnmton and Tunicliffe, London Lancet, 2 (1900), p. 1643. 



168 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



paralysis of the voluntary muscles. One-tenth of a gram caused head- 
ache when fed to man. 

While makers of caramel have worked on undisturbed, alcoholic 
beverages have been quite extensively analyzed for furfural, some of 
them having been found to contain as much as 0.03 gram per liter. 
That the "aftereffects" of whiskeys, wines and beers, have been attrib- 
uted partly to furfural is indicated by the fact that ammonia, an antidote 
for furfural, is the basis of the "pick-me-ups" used by hea\'y drinkers 
to reheve the headache. It is very probable that furfural in these 
beverages comes partly from the caramel used as the artificial coloring. 

EXPERIMENTAL 

Analysis of vanillin in artificial vanilla extract repeatedly showed 
the presence of furfural, which further work proved to be due, no doubt, 
to the caramel used as coloring. It was then decided to test caramel 
made by the ordinary method to determine the amounts of furfural 
formed. 

In each experiment 50 grams of sugar were caramelized in a small 
evaporating dish at the temperature indicated, dissolved in 250 cc. dis- 
tilled water, and the furfural distilled out of this solution determined 
by the Dox and Plaisance method.' At least three experiments were 
made at each temperature. The following results were obtained: 

Results of experiments 



KIND or ITGAKS VSB> 



Cane sugar 

Cane sugar 

Cane sugar 

Cane sugar 

Cane sugar 

Cane sugar 

Milk sugar 

Glucose 

Rice pudding 

Peanut brittle (purchased at candy store) 



TEMFEKATUtZ 



d€t. C. 
180 

185 
190 
193 
195 
200 
195 



TIKE nXLO AT 

UAXIUDM TEM- 

PEKATUma 



rURTtTRAL rmoM 
1 EC SOGAX 



tm. 

0.168 
0.198 
0.528 
O.S>4 
640 
944 
0.122 
Trace 
Trace 
Trace 



Fructose, honey, and galactose were tested qualitatively and furfural 
was found in each case. The fact that commercial peanut l^rittlc, 



•Loc.dL 



1917] SUGGESTION IN REGARD TO USE OF CARAMEL 169 

■jvhich was tested, was probably made from glucose, is the reason why 
but a trace of furfural was found in it. 

On the other hand an apple which had been allowed to bake too 
long producing a dark brown syrup in the bottom of the pan, gave a 
decided test for furfural. In this case cane (granulated) sugar was 
added to the apple as is ordinarily done in baking, and the caramel had 
resulted therefrom. 

While cane sugar was found to give a larger yield of furfural on cara- 
melization than any other sugar tested, it was also noted that boiling 
in an open pan with an equal amount of water for about ten minutes 
after caramehzation was sufficient to entirely expel the furfural from 
this caramel. 

The rice pudding made of | cup rice, § cup granulated sugar, and 4 
cups milk showed but a trace of furfural; no doubt, because it had been 
cooked in an open pan in a slow oven for several hours. 

DISCUSSION 

The above results show without doubt that furfural is a product 
worthy of consideration in the making of caramel, for 1 kg. (2.2 lb.) of 
cane sugar yielded from 0.168 gram furfural (at 180°C.) to 0.944 gram 
furfural (at 200° C), and but 0.1 gram of this aldehyde has been found 
sufficient to produce headache in man, while 0.5 gram fed to a rabbit 
or cat resulted in the death of the animal fed. 

To be sure, one would never be able to eat 2.2 pounds of cane sugar 
made into caramel or peanut brittle, but it might be possible for one to 
consume one-fourth of this amount or a little more than one-half pound 
sugar made into peanut brittle. In this case, if the peanut brittle were 
a dark brittle, in fact any brittle cooked at 190°C. or above, one-fourth 
pound of sugar so made up would yield more than 0.1 gram furfural. 

The experiments show that when boiled with water furfural is expelled. 
It is suggested, therefore, that when the product is cooked in the pres- 
ence of water after caramelization, as in the making of cakes, frost- 
ings, and rice puddings, or for coloring when boiled with water, no 
precaution is necessary. Care should be exercised, however, to pre- 
vent caramelization in the baking of fruits, and in case such should 
happen it might be well to boil the caramelized syrup with an equal 
amount of water for ten or fifteen minutes before serving it. Also in 
the making of peanut brittle, it is advisable to cook at as low a tern- 



170 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



perature as possible to obtain the desired result, thus making a light 
colored brittle, or better still, to use glucose or glucose syrup in place 
of cane sugar. This would have the additional advantage of reducing 
the cost of the product. 

An objection raised to this, however, is that peanut l)rittle made 
with all glucose is not so sweet as that made from cane sugar. To over- 
come this objection experiments were tried using | cane sugar, \ cane 
sugar, ^ cane sugar, the rest being glucose in each case. The glucose 
was heated until it began to change color, then the cane sugar added, 
and the whole further heated, with constant stirring, until crisp when 
tried in cold water. At this stage, peanuts were added and the mass 
poured upon the bottom of a buttered pie tin and worked into shape with 
two case knives. Of the resultant products numbers III, IV, and V 
when tested were all free from furfural. Number II showed but a 
slight trace of furfural. For number I sde experiments with cane sugar 
at 180°. 

The following table gives a comparison of the cost, brittleness, and 
taste of the finished products. The taste was judged by five, only one 
of whom knew before tasting of any difference in preparation. The 
granulated sugar used cost $1 for 10 pounds, corn syrup (the dark 
variety) 60 cents for 10 pounds, and peanuts 20 cents a pound. 

The amount of candy was less than ^ pound in each case. 

Note that as the glucose increases in amount the product becomes less 
sweet and the cost decreases. In connection with cost, since 1 cup of 



Comparison of cost, brittleness, and taste 



I 

II 
III 

IV 



CORN SYHUP 


CRAM7LATKO SUGAR 


PEANUTS 


TOTAL 
COST 


Amount 


Co«t 


Amount 


Cost 


Amount 


Cost 






icup 


$0,022 


icup 


$0 016 


$0,038 


J cup 


$0 0104 


icup 


0.011 


icup 


016 


0.0374 


6 tbsp. 


0156 


2 tbsp. 


0.0054 


icup 


016 


037 


7tlMp. 


0182 


1 tbsp. 


0027 


icup 


016 


0.?60 


icup 


0208 






icup 


016 


0.W68 



BRnTLE.SESS AND TASTS 



Very brittle, good, 

sweet 
Very brittle, Rood, 

sweet 
Vcr)' brittle, Rood, 

sweet. I>cs,s than 

II 
Very brittle, not as 

swccl as III, II or 

I, but preferred by 

two of those tasting 
Brittle but not sweet 



1917] VALUE OF TEXTILE CHEMISTRY 171 

glucose (average of four weights) was found to be 320 grams and 1 cup 
of granulated sugar (average of four weights) was 200 grams, it seems 
quite natural that the finished product should be 10 grams more in 
number V made of all corn syrup than in number I made of all cane 
sugar. If sold by the pound this would need to be taken into con- 
sideration in reckoning the cost. 



THE VALUE OF TEXTILE CHEMISTRY TO THE 
HOME ECONOMICS STUDENT 

RUTH O'BRIEN 
Instructor in Textile Chemistry, Iowa State College 

Although the value and importance of textile chemistry as a science 
is undisputed and the subject has long been an important part of the 
curricula of the few textile schools in this country, our colleges and 
universities have, as a rule, hesitated to give it a place either in their 
scientific or technical departments. This has been due largely to the 
fact that the textile industries of the country are so localized in a few 
of the southern and eastern states that our northern and western schools 
do not appreciate the value of textile work to their students. 

However, of late years a new influence has arisen to shape and mold 
the curricula of our colleges and universities — an influence embodied 
in our modern home economics departments. Long ago the movement 
for training the homemaker passed the stage of elective courses in cook- 
ing and sewing, and, with her welfare ever in mind, began to develop, 
not only more extensive courses in home economics, but also courses 
in other departments of such scope and content as to best serve her. 
Many subjects in science and economics, hitherto unexplored by the 
majority of women, took on new significance in the light of their appli- 
cation to household afifairs, and many new courses organized from re- 
lated fields have made their appearance from time to time. Textile 
chemistry is one of the latest arrivals and should be welcomed. It 
has many important roles to play. 

First it has a distinct role as part of the general education of all home 
economics students. From the begmning of this work we beheved 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

that a knowledge of sewing as well as cooking was necessary to the 
prospective homemaker, but for some reason when we began to strength- 
en these courses by introducing their allies in other departments, our 
partiality to the subject of foods was very marked. Elementary work 
in dietetics, experimental cookery, food chemistry, physiological chem- 
istry, and other subjects, was started at an early period, and has be- 
come more extensive every year, while our only additions to domestic 
art, other than basketry and lace making, have been attempts to give 
courses in art and design. We have been very slow in learning that 
other than esthetic qualities are desired in a fabric or garment. We 
have been satisfied too long to make our purchases by the simple process 
of sitting comfortably at a counter, feeling the fabrics with a knowing 
air practised chiefly to impress the clerk, and buying the one best suited 
to our fancy or pocketbook. The average young woman today not 
only does not have enough definite information on the subject of tex- 
tile materials to make her purchases wisely, but often cannot even for- 
mulate an intelligent opinion on modern textile problems. 

Teachers of sewing have long been aware of this and have attempted 
to remedy the condition by introducing a few lectures on so-called 
textiles, or by organizing courses under this title. In such cases, the 
question has often arisen as to just what subject matter should be in- 
cluded in 'textiles' and what in 'textile chemistry.' The question is 
still an open one. However, most of us who have seen a trained sew- 
ing teacher attempt to discuss and illustrate chemical tests in a sew- 
ing room where chemicals and laboratory glassware arc not found, will 
admit that even the simplest chemical tests should be included in courses 
in the chemistry departments where at least the materials are at hand, 
and those of us who are teaching textile chemistry are not nearly so 
troubled about keeping within the boundaries of our subject as we 
are about covering, in the short time usually allotted to us, even a 
comparatively small part of that extensive science. 

On the other hand, courses for the large class of general students 
must necessarily be very broad in their scope if they are to be of any 
value. We can hope to give such students only the fundamentals of 
the subject and create that intelligent viewpoint which every educated 
woman should have concerning the materials with which she works. 

The girl who specializes in domestic art presents another problem, 
however. She should have as inclusive and extensive knowledge of 
her chosen subject as it is possible to give her in the four years of college 



1917] VALUE OF TEXTILE CHEMISTRY 173 

work. She should be led to realize that it has its scientific as well as 
artistic side. This viewpoint of a subject which has so long had the 
name of art applied to it is indeed very new, but our present troubles 
with inferior materials and the subsequent agitation for pure textiles, 
the scarcity of dyestufifs, and even the advertisements of our textile 
manufacturers themselves, have all brought home to even the most 
artistic soul that a very artistic costume may not fulfill its function on 
account of inferior textiles or dyestuffs, and that art itself cannot come 
to its full realization or even exist without the crude building materials. 

I almost hesitate to discuss the third role of textile chemistry in home 
economics work. It seems to bring out into the light a problem which 
we all admit exists and yet which we do not have the courage to face. 
Yes, we learned long ago that a homemaker must be trained; we have 
developed departments in our colleges to supply this training, and the 
popularity of the work is bringing an increasing number of girls to our 
schools; but we are just beginning to learn that even after acquiring 
this knowledge, the modern college woman has no guarantee that her 
workshop, a home, will be provided for her. In spite of all our discus- 
sions on remote and immediate causes and our many and varied sug- 
gested remedies for existing conditions, the fact still remains that many 
of our graduates do not become homemakers and must earn their 
livelihood. More and more of our students are realizing this also, and 
those of us who have seniors and juniors in our classes are sometimes 
overwhelmed and bewildered by the frequent repetitions of that ancient 
question, "What can I do?" And what can they do? What do they 
do? The majority teach, of course, whether they are naturally fitted 
for teaching or not, and ofteq we are relieved to thus place a girl and 
get her settled. But we are coming to learn that this army of dissatis- 
fied and naturally unfitted teachers is gradually weakening the fiber of 
home economics work throughout the country and bringing back to 
us a more complex problem than ever. 

Then there is the girl who frankly says that she does not wish to 
teach and throws her question back again, "What can I do with this 
training which I have spent four years of time and money in acquiring?" 
We must answer the question. Even if we are developing homemakers 
as our primary object, the problem has grown up with our work and 
must be faced. We are beginning to do this to some extent. There 
is no need to enumerate the many lines into which our graduates are 
going. Dietitians, lunchroom managers, visiting housekeepers, leaders 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

of canning clubs, county agents, have all found their places in the last 
few years. There have been many entirely new lines of work opened 
up, and yet, as we review the list, we are struck by the fact that so few 
of these positions seem to have developed out of domestic art and so 
many out of domestic science. Can there be any connection between 
this and the fact that we developed the subjects allied to cooking first? 
Did we make new positions for women and open old ones to them because 
we first trained women for those places? Did we bring the demand by 
furnishing the supply? I am inclined to think that we did and to believe 
that we can do the same in domestic art. 

We have considered too long that domestic art fits a student only to 
become a dressmaker — a profession in which considerable capital is 
necessary if one is to rise very high. There are other professions which 
she can enter, and we can help her, not only by enlarging our work in 
art and costume design to such an extent that she can enter advanced 
courses in special schools, but also by developing the scientific side of 
the subject. For example, women are by nature interested in color, and 
there is no good reason why properly trained women may not become 
dye chemists in the future. The only reason why they have not ob- 
tained openings in the past is because they were not trained to fill them. 
The door is already open a little way and many women are employed 
in other branches of industrial chemistry. Department store teaching 
and buying are other new occupations for women which are proving 
that a knowledge of textile chemistry is a very valuable asset, and we 
have only to look ahead a little and prophesy many lines in which the 
scientific side of domestic art will be of great value to our college girls. 



THE HOMEMAKERS' COURSE AT KANSAS AGRICULTURAL 

COLLEGE 

MARY PIERCE VAN ZILE 
Dean of Division of Home Economics 

The organization of the Homemakers' Course at the Kansas State 
Agricultural College in 1903 signified the recognition of the need for a 
more universal education for homemaking. The twentieth century 



1917] HOMEMAKERS' COURSE AT KANSAS AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 175 

demands of the home manager an understanding of the sanitary require- 
ments of the home, a knowledge of values, absolute and relative, of the 
articles used in the house, quick attention to details, good judgment in 
buying, and a ready adaptation of means to the end in view. The pur- 
pose of the Homemakers' Course at the Kansas State Agricultural Col- 
lege is to furnish this training. The training is both specific and general. 
While it emphasizes primarily the practical and material problems of 
housekeeping, it does not stop here. The young women are constantly 
reminded that life is not drudgery — that technical knowledge fails to 
include the full meaning of an education. They are taught ideals as 
well as actualities, and are brought to see that, while skilful labor gives 
dignity to hfe, grace, refinement, and self poise are the highest requisites 
for true service. 

The teaching in this course is no less accurate than in the college 
course, but it is necessarily different. Given as it is to students without 
scientific training, the instruction must be more largely a presentation 
of facts, without as much of an elaboration of the underlying principles. 
The work is intensely practical, and the hundreds of young women who 
take this course go back to their homes with a broader view of life, 
and a knowledge and training that will enable them to meet their 
responsibilities. The course is six months in length and is ofTered each 
school year, beginning at the opening of the college year in September. 

Young women between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one are ad- 
mitted upon presentation of common-school diploma, grammar-school 
certificate, or high-school diploma, or upon passing an examination in 
the following subjects: reading, writing, spelling, arithmetic, grammar, 
geography, physiology, and United States history. Young women 
over twenty-one are admitted without examination. 

REQUIRED SUBJECTS 

Cookery I. Fall term. Laboratory, eight hours. 

A laboratory course. Stoves, stove construction, stove management, and 
fuels are the first topics considered, and this discussion is followed by experi- 
ments illustrating the efifect of heat upon starch and proteins. The necessary 
elementary principles involved are then apphed to the cooking of cereals, 
vegetables, beverages, breads, meats, soups, simple cake mixtures and pud- 
dings, and to the canning and preserving of fruits and vegetables. 

Sewing. Fall term. Laboratory, eight hours. 



176 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

This is a course in hand and machine sewing. The fundamental stitches 
are applied to simple articles and to patching and darning. Practice is given 
in the use of the sewing machine and in the drafting of patterns by the straight 
line system. Suitable materials and trimmings are discussed and a set of 
undergarments and a shirt waist are made. A note-book is required. 

Color and Design. Fall term. Laboratory, six hours. 

This is a course in simple designing and in studying color relations, with 
special reference to problems in the home. 

Cooking II. Winter term. Laboratory, twelve hours. 

The work of this course is divided into three parts. Four weeks are given 
to home cookery, four weeks to general care of the home, and the remaining 
four to the planning and the serving of meals. 

Home Nursing. Winter term. Class work, two hours. 

This course includes the study of the sick room and its care and furnishing, 
and the duties of the home nurse in giving inteUigent assistance to the phy- 
sician, and in contributing to the comfort of the sick. This involves also the 
ability to recognize and report symptoms correctly; to relieve pain; to give 
baths; to change bedding; to disinfect; and to treat wounds, burns, and 
sprains, as well as to meet successfully other emergencies that may arise in the 
home. 

Dressmaking. Winter term. Laboratory, eight hours. 

This course includes practice in the following: Adaptation of patterns, 
cutting, fitting, and making a cloth dress and fancy waist. The student 
furnishes all her material. 

Floriculture. Winter term. Class work, two hours. 

Lectures in the classroom are supplemented by practical exercises in the 
greenhouse, deaUng with the propagation and culture of flowers. Soil re- 
quirements, the planting of seeds, transplanting, cultivation, the making of 
cuttings, the selection of varieties adapted to the purposes of window garden- 
ing, lawn planting and cutting, are discussed in the lectures. An oppor- 
tunity to become acquainted with the species recommended, and with the 
operations necessary for their successful culture, is afforded in the laborafcry 
practice. 

Hygiene and Social Problems. Fall terra. Class work, one hour. 

This is a lecture course covering the subjects that have a direct bearing 
upon the health of a young woman student. It also includes a discussion of 
the social hygiene problems of young women. 

Note. — Students in this course are requested to elect an additional sub- 
ject, and it is hoped that many will remain for a full course during the spring 
term. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE BRITISH HOMEi 

ARNOLD BENNETT 

An evening at the Smithes. Mr. Smith returns to his home of an eve- 
ning at 6.30 . . . (and) sits down to tea in the dining room. Accord- 
ing to fashionable newspapers, tea as a square meal has quite expired 
in England. On six days a week, however, tea still constitutes the 
chief repast in about 99 per cent of English homes. . . . Mr. 
Smith gazes round at his home, his wife, and his children. He has been 
at work in the world for thirty-four years, and this spectacle is what 
he has to show for his labor. It is his reward. It is the supreme re- 
sult. He hurries through his breakfast, and spends seven industrious 
hours at the works in order that he may have tea nicely with his own 
family in his own home of a night. 

Well, the food is wholesome and sufficient, and they are all neat and 
honest, and healthy — except Mrs. Smith, whose health is not what it 
ought to be. Mr. Smith conceals his pride in his children, but the pride 
is there. Impossible that he should not be proud. He has the right 
to be proud. John is a personable young man, earning more and more 
every year. Mary is charming in her pleasant blouse, and Harry is 
getting enormous, and will soon be leaving school. 

This tea which is the daily blossoming time of the home that Mr. 
Smith and his wife have constructed with twenty-six years' continual 
effort, ought to be a very agreeable affair. Surely the materials for 
pleasure are present! But it does not seem to be a very agreeable 
meal. There is no regular conversation. Everybody has the air of 
being preoccupied with his own affairs. A long stretch of silence; then 
some chaffing or sardonic remark by one child to another; then another 
silence; then a monosyllable from Mr. Smith; then another silence. 

1 Selected by Carrie A. Lyford, United States Bureau of Education, from the essay on the 
British Home in Paris Nights, (1908). Published with the consent of Mr. Bennett. 

177 



178 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

No subject of wide interest is ever seriously argued at that table. 
No discussion is ever undertaken for the sake of discussion. It has 
never occurred to anyone named Smith that conversation in general 
is an art and may be a diverting pastime, and that conversation at table 
is a duty. Besides conversation is nourished on books, and books are 
rarer than teaspoons in that home. Further, at back of the excellent, 
honest, and clean mind of every Smith is the notion that politeness is 
something that one owes only to strangers. 

When tea is over — and it is soon over — young John Smith silently 
departs to another home very like his own, in the next street but one. 

In that other home there is a girl whom John sincerely considers to 
be the pearl of womanhood. In a few months, John inspired and aided 
by this pearl, will embark in business for himself as constructor of a 
home. 

Mary Smith wanders silently and inconspicuously into the drawing 
room and caresses the piano in an expectant manner. John's views 
as to the identity of the pearl of womanhood are not shared by another 
young man who lives not very far oflf. This other young man has no 
doubt whatever that the pearl of womanhood is precisely Mary Smith 
(an idea that had never entered John's head) ; and he comes to see Mary 
ever>' night with the permission of her parents. The pair are, in fact, 
engaged. Probably Mary opens the door for him, in which case they 
go straight into the drawing room. Young Henry has disappeared 
from human ken. 

Mr. Smith and his wife remain in the dining room, separated from 
each other by a newspaper, which Mr. Smith is ostensibly reading. 

The parents. Well, you see them together. Mr. Smith has done 
earning money for the day, and Mrs. Smith has done spending it. They 
are at leisure to enjoy this home of theirs. This is what Mr. Smith 
passes seven hours a day at business for. This is what he got married 
for. This is what he wanted when he decided to take Mrs. Smith, if 
he could get her. These hours ought to be the flower of their joint life. 
How are these hours affected by the organization of the home? 

I will tell you how Mrs. Smith is affected. Mrs. Smith is worried 
by it, and in addition she is conscious that her eflorts are imperfectly 
appreciated, and her difficulties unrealized. As regards the directing 
and daily recreation of the home, Mr. Smith's attitude on this evening 



1917] THE BRITISH HOME 179 

by the domestic hearth is at best one of armed neutrality. His criti- 
cism is seldom other than destructive. Mr. Smith is a strange man. 
If he went to a lot of trouble to get a small holding under the Small 
Holdings Act, and then left the cultivation of the ground to another 
person not scientifically trained to agriculture he would be looked upon 
as a ninny. When a man takes up a hobby, he ought surely to be ter- 
rifically interested in it. What is Mr. Smith's home but his hobby? 
****** 

He has put Mrs. Smith in to manage it. He himself, once a quarter, 
discharges the compHcated and delicate function of paying the rent. 
All the rest, the little matters, such as victualling and brightening — 
trifles, nothings! — he leaves to Mrs. Smith. He is not satisfied with 
Mrs. Smith's activities, and he does not disguise the fact. He is con- 
vinced that ;Mrs. Smith spends too much, and that she is not business- 
like. He is convinced that running a house is child's play compared 
to what he has to do. Now, as to Mrs. Smith being unbusiness-like, 
is Mr. Smith himself business-like? If he is, he greatly differs from his 
companions in the second class smoker. The average ofl5ce and the 
average works are emphatically not run on business lines, except in 
theory. Daily experience proves this. The business-likeness of the 
average business man is a vast and hollow pretence. 

Besides, who could expect Mrs. Smith to be business-like? She was 
never taught to be business-like. Mr. Smith was apprenticed, or in- 
dentured, to his vocation. But Mrs. Smith wasn't. Mrs. Smith has 
to feed a family, and doesn't know the principles of diet. She has to 
keep children in health and couldn't describe their organs to save her 
life. She has to make herself and the home agreeable to the eye, and 
knows nothing artistic about color or form. 

I am an ardent advocate of Mrs. Smith. The marvel is not, that 
Mrs. Smith does so badly, but that she does so well. If women were 
not more conscientious than men in their duties, Mr. Smith's home would 
be more amateurish than it is and Mr. Smith's "moods" more frequent 
than they are. For Mrs. Smith is amateurish. Example: Mrs. Smith 
is bothered to death by the daily question, "What can we have for 
dinner?" She spUts her head in two in order to avoid monotony. 
Mrs. Smith's repertoire consists probably of about 50 dishes, and if 
she could recall them all to her mind at once her task would be much 
simpHfied. But she can't think, of them when she wants to think of 
them. Supposing that in Mrs. Smith's kitchen hung a card contain- 



180 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

ing a list of all her dishes, she could run her eyes ove- it and choose 

instantly what dishes would suit that day's larder. Did you ever see 

such a Ust in Mrs. Smith's kitchen? No. The idea has not occurred 

to Mrs. Smith! 

I say also that to spend money efficiently is quite as difficult as to 

earn it efficiently. Any fool can somehow earn a sovereign, but to 

get value for a sovereign in small purchases means skill and immense 

knowledge. Mr. Smith has never had the experience of the difficulty 

of spending money efficiently. Most of Mr. Smith's payments are 

fixed and mechanical. Mrs. Smith is a spender. Mr. Smith chiefly 

exercises his skill as a spender in his clothes and in tobacco. Look at 

the result. Any showy necktie shop and furiously advertised tobacco 

are capable of hoodwinking Mr. Smith. 

****** 

In further comparison of their respective "jobs" it has to be noted 
that Mrs. Smith's is rendered doubly difficult by the fact that she is 
always at close quarters with the caprices of human nature. Mrs. 
Smith is continually bumping up against human nature in various 
manifestations. The human butcher-boy may arrive late owing to 
marbles, and so the dinner must either be late or the meat undercooked; 
or Mr. Smith, through much smoking, may have lost liis appetite, and 
veal out of Paradise wouldn't please him! Mrs. Smith's job is tran- 
scendently delicate. 

In fine, though Mrs. Smith's job is perhaps not quite so difficult as 
she fancies it to be, it is more difficult than Mr. Smith fancies it to be. 
And if it is not as well done as she thinks, it is much better done than 
Mr. Smith thinks. But she will never persuade Mr. Smith that he 
is wrong until Mr. Smith condescends to know what he is talking about 
in the discussion of household matters. Mr. Smith's opportunities for 
criticism are far too ample; or, at any rate, he makes use of them un- 
fairly, and not as a man of honor. Supposing that Mrs. Smith finished 
all her work at four o'clock and was free to walk into Mr. Smith's place 
of business and criticise there everything that did not please her! (It 
is true that she wouldn't know what she was talking about; but neither 
docs Mr. Smith at home; at home Mr. Smith finds pride in not knowing 
what he is talking about.) Mr. Smith would have a bit of "a time" 
between four and six. 

Mr. and Mrs. Smith are united by a genuine afTection. But their 
secret^attitudes on the subject of home management cause tliat afiec- 



1917] THE BRITISH HOME 181 

tion by a constant slight friction to wear thin. It must be so. And 
it will be so until (a) Mr. Smith deigns to learn the business of his home; 
(b) Mr. Smith ceases to expect Mrs. Smith to perform miracles; (c) 
Mrs. Smith ceases to be an amateur in domestic economy, i.e., until 
domestic economy becomes the principal subject in the upper forms of 
the average girls' school. 

The future. The cry is that the institution of the home is being 
undermined, and that, therefore, society is in a way of perishing, . . . 
And we are told: "It has come to this. This is the result of the craze 
for pleasure. Where is the home now?" 

To which my reply would be that the home remains just about where 
it was. . . . Nevertheless, the home of the Smith's has a very 
real enemy and that enemy is not outside but inside. That enemy is 
Matilda. . . . She doesn't count, and yet she is the factor 
which, more than any other, will modify the home of the Smith's. . . . 
When you visit the Smith's the home seems always to be in smooth 
working order. But ask Mrs. Smith! Ask Mary! Get underneath 
the surface, and you will glimpse the terrible trouble that lies concealed. 
Mrs. Smith began with Matilda the First. Are you aware that this 
is Matilda the Fortieth, and that between Matilda the Fortieth and 
Matilda the Forty-first there will probably be an interregnum? Mrs. 
Smith simply cannot get Matildas. And when by happy chance she 
does get a Matilda, the misguided girl won't see the velvet with which 
the kitchen and the attic are carpeted. 

Mrs. Smith says the time wUl come when the race of Matildas will 
have disappeared, and Mrs. Smith is right. But you say that the in- 
convenience brought about by the disappearance of Matilda will not 
exhaust the resources of civilization. The home will continue. But 
mechanical invention will have to be quickened in order to replace 
Matilda's red hands. 



182 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[AprU 



MENDING 

Many traditions of the household have come to us from a past dif- 
fering so essentially from the present, that it is worth while sometimes 
to examine our methods of work and see whether we are following cer- 
tain usages bHndly without present justification, or whether modern 
conditions call for some change in the adjustment of our time. 

The following article from The Youth's Companion shows how one 
woman went to work to determine this question in regard to a common 
household occupation. 

DOES IT PAY TO MEND? 

Three years ago a woman who was addicted to overcareful and continual 
darnings and patchings of her clothes began to realize that instead of being 
thrifty she was probably wasting time. Like many other women, once she 
began to mend she never knew when to stop, for a misguided conscience nagged 
her into going on and on as long as there was a hole or a thin place in sight. 
The idea came to her of trj'ing to copy the methods of the efficiency experts. 
She decided, therefore, to "standardize" her mending. 

First, she made a list of the garments in common use that needed most 
frequent repairing; then she estimated the length of time each article could 
be worn without need of repair, and the average yearly cost. Following is 
a copy of the Ust, revised after three years' experience; but as no two women's 
experiences would furnish statistics that would be exactly alike, the list is 
given merely for illustration: 



GARUZNTS m COimON USE 



Apron, kitchen overall 

Apron, "tea" 

Combination garment, muslin 

Corsets 

House dress, wash 

Kimono 

Nightgown, muslin 

Nightgown, flannelette 

Petticoat, muslin 

Stockings, lisle or balhriggan. . 

Stockings, cashmere. 

Union suit, summer 

Union suit, winter. 

Waist, lingerie 



OUCmXL COST 



t .60 

.50 

.50 

3.50 



00 
50 
00 
50 
00 
.35 
.50 
.50 
2.00 
1.50 



LENGTH or 
WEAK 



18 

24 

8 

12 

12 

24 

8 

8 

12 

1 

1 

6 

6 

6 



AVEKAGS 
TEAU.Y con 



% .40 
.25 

.7«; 

3.50 

5 00 
1.25 

1 50 

2 25 
1 00 
4.20 

6 00 
1 00 
4 00 

3 00 



1917] THE SOY BEAN 183 

As a guide to mending, such a list will serve in the following way: You will 
see that the "life expectation," so to speak, of a kitchen apron is eighteen 
months, and its average yearly cost is forty cents. If by one hour of mend- 
ing you can lengthen the Ufe of the apron six months, you have spent the 
hour well, provided that you could not earn more during that time by doing 
something else. But if by an hour of mending you can lengthen the hfe of 
the apron only one month, even if you estimate your time as worth only six 
cents an hour, you are papng more for the apron than it cost in the first place. 

It may sometimes be necessary to take that course, just as it is sometimes 
necessary to borrow money at a high rate of interest, but it is false economy 
to do it unless there is no other way. 



THE SOY BEAN 

The soy bean, already one of the most important crops of Asia, prom- 
ises to take an important place in the agricultural industry of the United 
States. It is said that it may be utilized in a greater number and a 
greater variety of ways than almost any other agricultural product. 
Not only are the beans, and the oil expressed from them, available as 
food, but soy bean oil is used for making paints, varnishes, soaps, rub- 
ber substitutes, linoleum, waterproof goods, and lubricants, besides its 
use in the Orient for Lighting and other purposes. 

In Japan the soy bean is one of the principal ingredients in the manu- 
facture of sho>TJ (soy sauce), miso (bean cheese), tofu (bean curd), 
and natto (steamed beans) . . The beans are eaten also as a vegetable 
and in soups; sometimes they are picked green, boiled, and served cold 
with soy sauce, and sometimes as a salad. A "vegetable milk" is also 
produced from the soy bean, not only forming the basis for the man- 
ufacture of the different kinds of vegetable cheese, but used fresh, while 
a form of condensed milk is also made from it. All of these food stuffs 
are used daily in Japanese homes, and for the poorer classes are the 
principal source of protein. 

Soy bean oil resembles that of cotton seed in many ways. The meal 
remaining after the oil is extracted from the beans has become impor- 
tant during the last few years as a food of low starch content, and so 
adapted to the use of diabetic patients. 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Soy bean flour enters as a constituent into many <• the so-called 
diabetic breads, l)iscuits, and crackers manufactured as food specialties. 
The flour or meal may be used successfully in the household as a con- 
stituent of mufiins, bread, and biscuits in much the way in which corn 
meal is used. 

An artificial milk like that manufactured in the Orient has been 
produced in small quantities in the United States, and recently a fac- 
tory has been equipped to make this product. Such milk may be used 
for cooking in the household, and by bakers, confectioners, and choco- 
late manufacturers. Such products must, of course, be properly labeled. 

The soy bean has also been utilized as a substitute for the coffee bean. 
When roasted and prepared, it makes an excellent substitute for coffee. 



THE ADVANCE IN FOOD PRICES 

Retail food prices in the United States are said to have advanced 19 
per cent in the year ending with January 15, as shown in statistics pre- 
pared by the bureau of labor. The increase in four years was 30 per cent. 

Every food staple except coffee and tea advanced during the year. 
Onions and potatoes led with increases of more than 50 per cent. Some 
of the advances were: 

Kind of food Per cent Kind of food Pm ctnt 

Sirloin steak 7 Cheese 27 

Round steak 8 Milk 11 

Rib roast 8 Bread 13 

Chuck roast 7 Flour 38 

Pork chops 10 Commeal 23 

Bacon 8 Potatoes 57 

Ham 4 Onions 58 

Lard 22 Beans 39 

Hens 16 Prunes 5 

Salmon 7 Raisins 16 

Kggs 32 Sugar 16 

Butter 18 



EDITORIAL 

The Food Situation. The Secretary of Agriculture, in a statement 
issued March 3, says: 

There is nothing in the food situation of the country which justifies hys- 
terical thinking or action. 

The prices of food stuffs are high. A full and satisfactory explanation 
of prevailing prices is not possible on the basis of existing knowledge. It is 
only recently that agencies have been created in the country to study food dis- 
tribution, and we have not all the necessary facts to enable us to arrive at 
the truth. Where the food supply is located, who owns it, what may be the 
difficulties of securing it, whether the local market conditions are due to car 
shortage, whether there is artificial manipulation or control, no one can state 
with certainty. 

He emphasizes the necessity of learning the facts, not only because 
of present conditions "but also because they are prerequisite for the 
working out of a permanent, just and economical system of marketing." 

He also emphasizes the necessity of limiting waste. 

For partial immediate relief, every individual and community should con- 
sider earnestly the matter of food conservation and the limitation of waste. 
As a nation we seem to have a disdain of economizing. In many homes there 
is a strong feehng that it is "only decent" to provide more food than will be 
eaten and that it is demeaning to reckon closely. The experts of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture report that the dietary studies made by them point to 
an annual food waste of about $700,000,000. 

The food waste in the household results in large measure from bad prepara- 
tion and bad cooking, from improper care and handling, and, in well-to-do 
famines, from serving an undue number of courses and an overabundant 
supply, and faiUng to save and utilize the food not consumed. As an instance 
of improper handling, it is discovered that in the preparation of potatoes 
20 per cent of the edible portion in many cases is discarded. 

Secretary Houston's statement that "the waste in families of very 
limited means is shght" unfortunately seems not to be wholly true. 
One can have little contact with the dependent poor without realizing 

185 



186 THE JOirRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

that in these families at least the proportion of waste in relation to ex- 
penditure is as great or greater than in the majority of well-to-do families. 

Have Schools of Home Economics begim to realize their responsibility 
in this matter? They arc preparing the public school teacher who in- 
fluences large numbers of homes through the children; they are train- 
ing girls who are going into their own homes to put in practice not so 
much precepts given them as the actual usage of the school; they are 
sending extension workers to rural families, and training \isiting house- 
keepers; they are providing hospital dietitians and lunch room managers. 
If Europe up to this time has dealt with the food situation "more 
largely through conserv^ation of foods, regulation of the diet, limitation 
of courses and quantities, and prevention of waste, rather than through 
direct control of production or regulation of distribution under any 
sort of dictatorship," does not the solution in America lie to a consider- 
able extent in the better administration of the homes and the practical 
efficiency of those who are influencing the ideals of these homes? 

To undertake a Campaign for Conservation might be the best work 
the American Home Economics Association could do. 

Baby Week. Last year began the nation wide observance of "Baby 
Week," a popular educational program instituted by the cooperation of 
the Children's Bureau and the General Federation of Women's Clubs. 
Chicago, New York, and a few other cities had already held such a cele- 
bration, but in 1916, 2000 and more communities scattered over every 
state in the Union observed "Baby Week." 

The report of the Chief of the Children's Bureau states that the suc- 
cess of Baby Week depends upon securing the interest of many people, 
public oflicials, committees of private citizens, teachers, librarians, 
business men, fathers, mothers, big brothers and sisters. Public meet- 
ings, exhibits, conferences with parents, including examinations of well 
babies, flags distributed by Boy Scouts or other organizations to evcr>' 
house where there is a baby; processions, plays, taijleaus, school chil- 
dren's essays — these are some of the ways whereby the interest was 
aroused in the more than 2000 localities which gave a few days each for 
studying the nccfls of their bal)ics and for asking themselves whether 
they were giving every baby his fair chance, or what common action was 
needed in order to protect all their youngest and most helpless citizens. 

It is suggested that Baby Week for 1917 Ik? observed from the first 
to the sixth of May. 



1917] EDITORIAL 187 

One of the suggestions made is that the scope be enlarged to include 
all children under school age. As one mother says, "It equires only 
twelve months for a baby to become one year old and no longer subject 
to the hazards of 'infant mortality,' but there are still many risks for 
him to encounter; he is still absolutely helpless, although increasingly 
charming, and his parents are as eager to keep him well and happy, as 
desirous of sound advice, as they were last year. Open out the 1917 
Baby Week to include children still at home with their mothers." 

It is to be remembered also that well cared for, healthy mothers are 
necessary for the health and happiness of their babies, and that the 
importance of protecting the mother must be given a prominent place 
in the educational work of the campaign. 

A bulletin of suggestions for Baby Week, 1917, may be obtained from 
the Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C, as well as a full report of 
the 1916 observance. 

The New Vocational Bill. President Wilson signed the Smith- 
Hughes bill on February 23. The bill, after passing the Senate in July, 
1916, and the House in January, 1917, was adjusted by a conference com- 
mittee. In its final form it calls for an administration board consisting 
of the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary 
of Labor, the Commissioner of Education, and three others, one repre- 
senting the interests of commerce and manufacture, one representing 
agricultural interests, and one the interests of labor. 

The first appropriation will be available July 1 . 1917. The amount ap- 
propriated for the first year is $1,700,000 and a greater fund is authorized 
for each succeeding year until an annual total of $7,200,000 is reached. 

Provision is made for appropriation for salaries for teachers of voca- 
tional home economics, and for schools for the training of such teachers. 
Just how this will be interpreted so far as our own work is concerned, 
and what proportion of the money will be allowed for such work can be 
determined only after the full commission is appointed. 

The Association at Kansas City passed the following resolution : 

Whereas, the passage of the Smith-Hughes Act granting Federal Aid for 
Vocational Education has made available a considerable sum of money, part 
of which will be used for vocational education in home economics; be it 

Resolved, That tlie American Home Economics Association in session with 
the Division of Superintendence of the National Education Association offers 
its services in an advisory capacity to the Board appointed to administer the 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

funds av^lable under the act granting Federal Aid for Vocational Education, 
in so far as they are applied to vocational training in home economics. 

This has been sent to the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, and 
Labor, and to the Commissioner of Education, and has brought the 
promise that the resolution shall be brought to the attention of the Fed- 
eral Board for Vocational Education as soon as it is organized. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 
A correspondent writes: 

May I make a suggestion for the Journal? It is quite diflScult as you 
know to secure the right teachers for summer ichool work in home economics, 
and yet there must be a number of excellent instructors and assistant profes- 
sors as well as heads of departments who are available for this work, and 
also a number who would like to teach in a summer school away from their 
own institution. Is this the work of an agency or could it be handled infor- 
mally through your ofl&ce? For instance, if we needed an instructor and I 
knew that some one in another institution were available I would need only 
to write to the head of the department to discuss the suitability of her assistant 
for the place. 

The Journal oflSce is glad to undertake to put heads of departments 
and those desiring summer work in touch with one another so far as 
this is possible. If those desiring such positions will write to the office, 
giving a brief account of themselves and naming the institutions with 
which they are cormected, their letters will be forwarded to any 'vho 
write for information in regard to instructors. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JOTIRNAL OF HoME ECONOMICS if the Joumal price is listed. 



Feeding the Family. By Mrs. Mary 
SwARTZ Rose. New York: The Mac- 
millan Company, 1916, pp. 450. $2.10. 
By mail of the Journal $2.20. 

This book represents a valuable and 
highly successful endeavor to render into 
popular language and into practical precept 
present day knowledge of the science of 
nutrition. In the prefac the author points 
out that, while many things, such as sleep, 
fresh air and e.xercise, contribute to health, 
the foremost consideration is food. The 
purpose of the volume is to pro\ade a guide- 
book to good nutrition for a twentieth cen- 
tury family, so that housewives, who pre- 
pare something like a thousand meals a year 
for those dependent on them, may enjoy 
the service of scientific knowledge in the 
fulfillment of their tasks. 

The cost of various foods, as measured in 
terms of their caloric content, is strongly 
emphasized throughout the book, but the 
method of obtaining prop>er quantities of 
protein and salts is also described. Thus, it 
is pointed out that milk at nine cents a 
quart furnishes protein more cheaply than 
round steak at twenty-eight cents a pound. 
It is also shown how milk affords the 
cheapest known source of lime which is used 
for the development and maintenance of the 
bones. 

Adequate diets are suggested for all ages, 
in health and disease, and for the slender 
purse as well as for the more opulent. Thus, 
menus are given which will furnish a family 
of six with 14,000 calories a day at a cost of 
$1.40 and this may be compared with the 
dietary containing the same food value but 
costing $2.50 daily. The one represents an 
annual cost of $900; the other, one of $500. 



Surely, such knowledge is of value if it can 
only be brought to those in need of it. The 
reduction in cost is effected by omitting eggs, 
substituting cookies for lady fingers, dried 
beef for chicken, dried fruits for fresh fruits, 
using the cheaper forms of fish instead of 
meat, lajdng emphasis especially upon 
cereals and vegetables, and yet allowing three 
quarts of milk especially for the children. 

Knowledge of food values is now available 
as never before. A book like that of Mrs. 
Rose helps to make it of service to mankind. 
Graham Lusk. 

Clothing far Women. By Laxjra I. Baldt. 
Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 
1916, pp. 454, $2. By mail of the 
Journal, $2.16. 

Miss Baldt has given to the teachers 
of home economics and vocational subjects 
a book long needed and eagerly looked 
for. While written primarily with col- 
lege classes in view it can be adapted easily 
to the use of students in the high school 
and to women in the home. It contains 
scientific, economic, and artistic facts con- 
cerning the construction of garments; tech- 
nical instruction, and working designs for 
drafting, cutting, fitting, and finishing 
women's outer and under clothing; whole- 
some advice to the buyer of textiles as to 
the wise use of her money; and information to 
the teacher. The directions for designing 
and constructing clothing are practical and 
easily followed. 

On account of the rapid changes in 
fashion, such a book is difficult to write 
in a way so that it will continue to be of 
value. Miss Baldt has, however, selected 
permanent principles on which to base her 

189 



190 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



instruction. She suggests ways of chang- 
ing patterns, in order to adapt old to new 
styles, which tend to free the student from 
hard and fast rules of garment construction. 
Drafting and pattern making are too often 
taught in a dull, mechanical way, making 
them almost useless in education. Miss 
Baldt, however, seeks to develop thought 
concerning the essential constructive points 
of garments and the way to cover the body 
attractively. She shows that drafting is 
but a step toward a keener appreciation 
of line, freedom in altering patterns, and 
a better designing of garments. 

The subject of pattern making is ap- 
proached by means of a simple shirt-waist, 
discussed at first in its completed state, 
followed by the taking of measures, draft- 
ing the garment, and then testing the results. 
The author then shows how other articles 
of clothing can be develop)ed from this 
pattern, and also how to copy illustrations 
or judge design. She decries waste of 
time in useless demonstration on the part 
of the teacher, and suggests for all pupils 
ample experimentation in materials until 
they learn to express themselves adequately. 
She stresses the part of her subject where 
the need for information is greatest and 
gives the sort of information wliich every- 
one wants and does not know where to find. 

The book is divided into three sections: 
The first deals with the selection of cloth- 
ing and discusses such practical matters 
as what to buy, what clothing should signi- 
fy, planning a wardrobe, the choice of 
ready-to-wear clothing, textile suggestions, 
and clothing budgets. 

The second section is on clothing design. 
It considers color, historic dress and orna- 
ment, principles on which to plan clothing, 
the use of commercial patterns, and sim- 
ple problems of clothing design. The art 
teacher as well as the dress making teacher 
will be helped by the suggestions. 

Part three is on the construction of 
clothing, and treats of the equipment and 
tools needed in the making of garments 
and how to use them; the stitches and con- 
structive processes; the principles of mak- 



ing suitable textiles to use in outer and 
under garments; trimmings and findings; 
and descriptive ideas on decoration and 
self-trimming. 

The final chapter shows home workers, 
dressmakers, and teachers how to use the 
book to the greatest advantage. 

Numerous clear illustrations, well-chosen 
book lists and suggestive questions add to 
the value of the book. 

Miss Baldt believes all women should 
clothe themselves wisely and would have 
each know how to choose what is becom- 
ing yet according to the purse. 

Mary Schenck Woolman. 

How to Live. By Irving Fisher and 
Eugene Lyman Fise, Ed. 3. New 
York: Funk & Wagnalls Co., 1916, pp. 
345. $1. By mail of the Journal, $1.10. 

Probably there will be no single excep- 
tion to general popular interest in the pur- 
pose of this book. The authors state 
this purpose as follows: To spread knowledge 
of indi\-idual hygiene — to extend human 
hfe, not only as to length, but also, if we 
may so express it, as to breadth and 
depth. 

The various chapters deal with such 
subjects as Air, Food, Poisons, ActiWty, 
Hygiene in General, with supplementary 
notes on Alcohol, Tobacco, Colds, Degener- 
ative Diseases, and Eugenics. 

The chapter on air treats of housing, 
clothing, outdoor living, and deep breath- 
ing. The advice is, in the main, good, 
although there is no strikingly new j,oint 
made. The remarks alxiut drafts are 
capable of misconstruction. *'.\ gentle draft 
is as a matter of fact one of the best friends 
which the seeker after health can have." 
Manifestly the authors mean that fresh 
air is such a friend, and that the mere stir- 
ring of air is in itself an advantage. The 
section on clothing gives some good advice. 
The section on outdoor living and that on 
deep breathing fall into the same categor>'. 

The chapter on food is an illustration 
of the well known difficulty experienced 



1917] 



BOOKS RECEI\rED 



191 



by anyone who strives to present scientific 
facts in a popular form. Frankly, it seems 
to the writer that this chapter has little 
practical value. The statements made are 
in many cases so general as to be some- 
what misleading. The statement that "ten 
calories of protein out of every hundred cal- 
ories of food is not too small an allowance," 
does not, it seems to us, tell enough of the 
story. Again, the authors take too little 
account of previous habits and conditions. 
Anyone who has worked for years among 
families with generations of underfeeding 
back of them, will see the necessity for great 
care in setting food standards. The dis- 
cussion of a possible excess of protein in 
the diet seems to us to stop short of practical 
and valuable conclusions. Taken all in all, 
the person with no knowledge of dietetics 
would get very hazy ideas on the subject of 
formulating a healthful diet. 

The chapter on prisons deals with con- 
stipation and the following statement is 
made: "Free water drinking at meals may 
prove constipating." One questions the 
authority back of this statement. The 
chapter also deals with cleanliness, exercise, 
and care of the teeth. 

The chapter on activity gives some good 
advice; that on hygeine in general gives 
fifteen rules for keeping well. 



The notes on alcohol are valuable as is 
any discussion giving popular education 
on the dangers of alcohol. Whatever one 
may think of the value of restricted use of 
alcohol, it would seem to be the wiser part 
to give the public all possible knowledge 
of the harm attending its unrestricted 
use. 

Winifred Stuart Gibbs. 

Commercial Publications. 

From time to time commercial pubhca- 
tions come into our hands that contain 
facts, not always easily available, that are 
useful to the teacher of home economics, 
as well as the housekeeper. One such 
publication is issued by the Lovell Mfg. Co., 
of Erie, Pa., on "Clothes Wringers and Cold 
Process Mangles." It gives different t>-pes 
of wringers with details of tlieir construc- 
tion and illustrations of many different 
types. It may be obtained by writing to 
the company. 

A second pamphlet is called "A Century 
of Sugar Refining in the United States," 
issued by the American Sugar Refining 
Co., BrookljTi, N. Y. It gives a brief 
history of the refining industry, with some 
statements in regard to the manufacturing 
process, and has some fine illustrations. 



BOOKS RECEIVED 



Costume Design and Home Planning. By Estelle Peel Izor, illustrated by Katherine P. 

BrowTi and Rachel T. Dixon. Boston: Atkinson, Mentzer and Company, 1916, pp. 210. 

$.90. By mail of the Journal, $.98. 
A Course in House Planning and Furnishing. By Charlotte Wait Calkins. Chicago: Scott, 

Foresman and Company, 1916, pp. 79. Paper, $.60. By mail of the Journal, S.68. 
Food Study. (A text-book in Home Economics for high schools). By Mabel Thacher Well- 
man. Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1917, pp. 324. $1.00. By mail of the 

Journal, $1.09. 
The Home and the Family. By Helen Kinne and Anna M. Cooley. New York: Macmillan 

Company, 1917, pp. 292. $.80. By mail of the Journal, $.90. (The Home-Making 

Series.) 
A Layman's Handbook of Medicine vnth Special Reference to Social Workers. Bj- Richard C. 

Cabot. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 1916, pp. 524. $2.00. By mail 

of the Journal, $2.14. 



192 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The following pamphlets may be obtained from the Supt. of Documents, Government 
Printing Office, Washington, D. C: or from the department from which they are issued. 

Digestibility of Vegetable Fats. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. of 

Agr., Bui. No. 505, Feb. 13, 1917, pp. 20. 
Eggs and Their Value as Food. By C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Dept. of Agr. Bui. No. 471. 

Jan. 31, 1917, pp. 30. 
Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. By A. D. Holmes and H. L. Lang. U. S. 

Dept. of Agr., Bui. No. 469, Dec. 15, 1916, pp. 27. 
The Food Value and Uses of Poultry. By Helen W. Atwater. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bui. 

No. 467, Dec. 29, 1916, pp. 29. 
Home Canning Instructions. (Canning of Soups and Meats.) By George E. Farrell. 

U. S. Dept. of Agr., Office of Extension Work, North and West, Dec. 22, 1916, pp. 8. 
Homemade Fireless Cookers and Their Use. Farmer's Bulletin No. 771, U. S. Dept. of Agr., 

Dec. 1916, pp. 16. 
Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and Other Starchy Roots as Food. By C. F. Langworthy. U. S. 

Dept. of Agr., Bui. No. 468, Jan. 17, 1917, pp. 28. 
Studies of the Digestibility of the Grain Sorghums. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. 

U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bui. No. 470, Dec. 22, 1916, pp. 30. 
Value to Farm Families of Food, Fuel, and Use of House. By W. C. Funk. U. S. Dept. of 

Agr., Bui. No. 410, Nov. 11, 1916, pp. 36. 
Fourth Annual Report of Chief Children's Bureau, for fiscal year ended June 30, 1916. Dept. 

of Labor, pp. 27. 
Some Facts Concerning Manual Arts and Homemaking Subjects in 156 Cities. By Joseph C. 

Park and Charles L. Harlan. Dept. of The Interior, Bureau of Education, Bui., 1916, 

No. 32, pp. 25. 
The Physical Care of Rural School Children. By Taliaferro Clark. U. S. Pub. Health Service, 

Reprint No. 366, Oct. 6, 1916, pp. 8. 
Relationship of Milk Supplies to Typfund Fever. By W. H. Frost. U. S. Pub. Health Service, 

Reprint No. 380, Dec. 1, 1916, pp. 14. 

The following pamphlets are issued by the publishers listed. 

Colony Care of the Feeble-Mindcd. Revised and printed by the Committee on Provision 

for the Feeble-Minded, 702 Empire Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 

House Heating. Bui. of Missouri State Board of .Agriculture, vol. xlv, No. 6, June 1916, 

pp. 24, Secretary of State Board of Agriculture, 112-124 .Agriculture Bldg, Columbia, Mo. 

The Use of Lye in the Preparation of Food. By K. G. Bitting. Research Laboratory, 

National Canners Association, Washington, D. C, Jan. 1917. 
Nursing as a Vocation for Women. By Kathcrinc M. Olmstcad. Exten. Div., Univ. of 

Wis., Madison, Wis., Bui. Serial No. 814, Nov. 1916, pp. 19, price 10 cents. 
The Oceans: Our Future Pastures. By Zonia Baber. Reprint from the Scientific Monthly, 
Sept., 1916, pp. 5 (pp. 258-262.) 
Report of the Committee on Dietary Food Supplies in the New York State Hospitals. Re- 
print from The State Hospital Quarterly, Nov., 1916. Utica, N. Y., pp. 14. 

The Teaching of Thrift in the Public Schools. By H. R. Bonnc-r and M. P. Shawkey, 
Charleston, West Ya., 1917, pp. 54. (Contains a bibliography and songs.) 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 193 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send nuterial to the Jotirnal. 

Foods and Cookery 

The Relation of Certain Physical Characteristics of the WTieat Kernel to Milling Quality. 
C. H. Bailey, Jour. Agr. Set. [England], 7 (1916), no. 4, pp. 432^142. 

Milling and Baking Tests on Argentine and Walla Wheats. P. R. Scott and F. G. B. 
Winslow, Jour. Dept. Agr. Victoria, 13 (1915), nos. 11, pp. 661-666, fig. 1; 12, pp. 736-739. 

Some Factors Affecting the Cooking of DhoU [Red Gram or Pigeon Pea] (Cajanus indi- 
cus). B. Viswanath, T. L. Row, and P. A. R. Ayyangar, Mem. Dept. Agr. India, Chem. 
Ser., 4 (1916), no. 5, pp. 149-163, pi. 1, fig. 1. 

On the Composition of Human Milk in Australia. I, The Composition During the 
Early Stages of Lactation. H. S. H. Wardlaw, Jour, and Proc. Roy. Soc. N. S. Wales, 49 
(1915), pt. 2, pp. 169-198, fig. 1. 

The Percentage of Alcohol in Homemade Root Beer. C. H. La Wall, Amer. Jour. Pharm., 
88 (1916), no. 8, pp. 355-358. 

Rates for Electric Cooking and Water Heating. Jour. Electricity, 37 (1916), no. 1, pp. 
12, 13. 

[Food and Drug Analyses]. J. P. Street, et al., Connecticut State Sta. Rpt. 1915, pt. 5, 
pp. 265-119. 

Canning in Glass in the Home (Fruits, Vegetables, and Meats). Sarah E. Belt, Agr. 
of Mass., 1915, pt. 2, pp. 49-57. 

[Anal>'ses of] Extracts and Spirits. Maine Sta. Of. Insp., 77 (1916), pp. 21-40, 

[Food and Drug Inspection and Analysis]. C. L. Clay, Bien. Rpt. La. Bd. Health, 1914- 
15, pp. 63-105, figs, 2. 

[Food Inspection]. A. W. J. MacFadden, Ann. Rpt. Local Govt. Bd. [Gt. Brit.], 44, 
(1914-15), pp. 18-20. 

Hints on Inspecting Canned Foods. W. D. Bigelow, Chem. Engin. and Manfr., 24 (1916), 
no. 3, pp. 108-110. 

The lodin Content of Foods. E. B. Forbes, F. M. Beegle, et al. Ohio Sta. Bui. 299 
(1916), pp. 487-546. 

Cultivation and Canning of Mangoes in India. T. C. Chaudhurt, Jour. Indus, and 
Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 7, pp. 618, 619. 

Vanilla Extract. J. R. Dean and J. O. Schlotterbeck, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 
8 (1916), nos. 7, pp. 607-614, figs. 2; 8, pp. 703-709. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

The Soy Bean and Condensed Milk in Infant Feeding. J. Ruhrah, Amer. Jour. Med. 
Set., 150 (1915), no. 4, pp. 502-512. 

Conditions of Diet and Nutrition in the Internment Camp at Ruhleben [Germany], 
A. E. Taylor, London: Govt., 1916, pp. 12. 

Chemical Changes in the Central Nervous System in Pellagra. Mathilde L. Koch and 
C. Voegtlin, Pub. Health Serv. U. S., Hyg. Lab. Bui. 103 (1916), pp. 51-129, pis. 2, figs. 3. 

Chemical Changes in the Central Nervous System as a Result of Restricted Vegetable 
Diet. Mathilde L. Koch and C. Voegtlin, Pub. Health Serv. U. S., Hyg. Lab. Bui. 103 (1916), 
pp. 5^9, figs. 12. 

The Creatinin and Creatin Content of the Blood of Children. B. S. Veeder and M. R. 
Johnston, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 12 (1916), no. 2, pp. 136-144. 



194 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Experimental Studies on Crcatin and Crcatinin. — V, Protein Feedinp .lad Creatin Elimi- 
nation in Pancreatic Diabetes. \V. C. Rose, Jotir. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), no. 2, pp. 331-338. 

E.Tperimental Studies on Creatin and Creatinin. — VI, Protein Feeding and Creatin 
Elimination in Fasting Man. W. C. Rose, F. \V. Dimmitt, and P. X. Cheatham, Jour. 
Biol. Chcm., 26 (1916), no. 2, pp. 339-344. 

The Physiological Action of Glucal. J. O. Balcar, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), no. 1, 
pp. 163-171. 

The Lipoids ("Fat") of the Blood in Diabetes. W. R. Bloor, E. P. Joslin, and A. A. 
Hornor, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), no. 2, pp. 417-430. 

Preliminary Observations on Metabolism in Pellagra. .\. Hunter, M. H. Givens, and 
R. C. Lew-is, Pub. Health Scrv. U. S., Hyg. Lab. Bui. 102 (1916) pp. 39-67. 

Pellagra. — The Value of the Dietary Treatment of the Disease. J. R. Ridlon, Pub. 
Health Rpts. \U. S.], 31 (1916), no. 30, pp. 1979-1999. 

HvGiEhfE AND Sanitation 

Case of Poisoning by Dafifodil Bulbs (Narcissus pseudo-narcissus). W. G. McNab, 
Pharm. Jour. [London], 4 ser., 42 (1916), no. 2738, pp. 367, 368. 

The Inhibiting Action of Certain Spices on the Growth of Micro-organisms. Freda 
M. Bachmann, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 7, pp. 620-623, figs. 2. 

The Presence and Significance of Molds in the .Vlimentary Canal of Man and Higher 
Animals. G. Turesson, Svcnsk. Bot. Tidskr., 10 (1916), no. 1, pp. 1-27; abs. in Expl. Sta. 
Record, 35 (1916), no. 6, p. 559. 

A Proposed Score Card for Refrigerators. W. A. Evans, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 
(1916), no. 7, p. 743; Jour. H. E., 9 (1917), no. 3, pp. 118-120. 

The Bacillus Carrier and the Restaurant. A. I. Kendall, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
6 (1916), no. 7, pp. 726-729. 

Artificial Purification of Oysters. — A Report of Experiments Upon the Purification of 
Polluted Oysters by Placing Them in Water to which Calcium Hypochlorite Has Been 
Added. W. F. VVeUs, Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 31 (1916), no. 28, pp. 1848-1852. 

Court Decisions Pertaining to the Public Health [ (Including Foods) ]. Pub. Health 
Rpts. [U. S.], Reprint 342 (1913-1916), pp. xxv -1- 192. 

Sanitary Studies of Baking Powders. — I, Is Aluminium .Vbsorbable From Bread, and 
Similar Food Products, Made With Alum Baking Powder? W. J. Gies, Biochem. Bui., 
5 (1916), no. 20-21, pp. 151-157. 

The Bacteriolog>' of the Bubble P'ountain. Dorothy F. Pettibone, F. B. Bogart, and 
P. F. Clark, Jour. Bad., 1 (1916), no. 5, pp. 471-480, fig. 1. 

Economics 

Interim Report of the Departmental Committee Appointed by the President of the 
Board of Agriculture and Fisheries to Consider the Production of Food in England and 
Wales. Milner et al., London: Govt., 1915, pp. 7. 

Comparative Statistics on Foodstuffs and Fuel for 3 Years. Olympia, Wash.: State, 
1916, pp. 3. 

Food for the Family. A. Grace Johnson, Orcg. Agr. Col. Ext. Bui. 3 (1910), no. 10, pp. 13. 

Kitchen Organization and Administration. C. S. Pitcher, Columbus, 0.: Ohio Bd. Ad- 
min., [1916], pp. 62, pis. 4. 

Retail Prices of Food Supplies in New Jersey. .Ann. Rpt. But. Indus. Statis., .V. /., 
38 (1915), pp. 149-157. 

Report of the Bureau of Markets of the City of .N'cwton, Mass., Rpt. Bur. Markets (New- 
ton, .\fass.], 1915, pp. 56, pis. 2, figs. 10. 

Cost of Fo<k1 for an Adult Woman, Miss C. E. Collet, Jour. Roy. Statis. Soc., 79 (1916), 
no. 3, pp. 300-308. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Federated Association of Applied 
Arts and Sciences, Southern Sec- 
tion, Cal. In 1915, when the Southern 
California Institute was held at San Diego, 
a banquet was given at Hotel Grant for 
teachers especially interested in vocational 
branches. At a subsequent meeting, plans 
were discussed for a federated association, 
and, during the months which followed, a 
constitution was framed and adopted by the 
Home Economics, Agricultural, and Manual 
Arts Associations. As a result of this or- 
ganization an unusually helpful and inter- 
esting program was presented in 1916. 

December 19, a dinner was given at Hotel 
Clark, in honor of Dr. Frank Mitchell 
Leavitt, Professor of Industrial Education 
at the University of Chicago. Dr. Frank 
H. Ball, President of the Santa Barbara 
State Normal School, Dr. E. R. Snyder, 
State Commissioner of Vocational Edu- 
cation, and Ella V. Dobbs, of Columbia 
University, Mo., were also guests of the 
Association. Miss Ada Blanchard, Pres- 
ident of the Federated Association, acted 
as chairman and introduced the speakers. 

Dr. Lea\'itt spoke on the reorganization 
of courses of study for the first two years 
of high school. 

Dr. Snyder spoke on the great need of 
increased vocational training, on the Smith- 
Hughes Bill and what it would mean to 
CaUfomia in financially aiding vocational 
education. He also discussed briefly the 
certification of special teachers in California 
and the urgent need of a radical change in 
the laws governing the granting of high 
school certificates, since high school teachers 
are really all special teachers. 

Miss Dobbs told of the work of the Fed- 
erated Association of Applied Arts and Sci- 
ences in Missouri, especially dwelling upon 
the benefit derived from the dose corre- 



lation of the fine arts with domestic art and 
manual training. 

At the behest of Dr. Frank Ball, H, E. 
Miles of Racine, Wisconsin, who happened 
to be in the city, gave an excellent talk on 
the vocational training in the country, and 
the need for the socialization of education. 
Mr. Miles is a prominent manufacturer, who 
for years has de\'oted a great deal of his 
time to industrial education. He is chair- 
man of the Industrial Education Commit- 
tee of the National Manufacturers Asso- 
ciation and president of the Wisconsin In- 
dustrial Commission. 

The section meetings on December 22 
were of unusual interest. 

Miss Letita Weer, of the Los Angeles 
State Normal School, addressed the Home 
Economics Section, urging the immediate 
need of a more thoroughly standardized 
course of study in home economics for high 
school classes. This is especially necessary for 
students who ^ish to use their high school 
work as a basis for normal or college train- 
ing, but it would have a tendency to strength- 
en all of the work. 

Dean Hunt of the College of Agriculture 
of Univ. of California gave a very instructive 
account of the Agricultural College, the 
correspondence courses of the college, the 
work and standards of the farm school at 
Davis. He also discussed the rapid advance 
of agricultural work in the high school, and 
the training necessary for teaching that work. 

At a joint session of the sections Dr. 
Leavitt spoke on vocational training and 
Mr. Donoho told of the wonderful work, 
accomplished by the Municipal Emplo>'ment 
Bureau in the city and also in Southern 
CaUfomia. The organization has achieved 
such success, both from the standpoint of 
employers and employees, that it is now a 
state, as well as a municipal, organization. 

195 



196 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[April 



One of the greatest needs of the bureau at 
the present time is a well trained vocational 
director to whom all juvenile applicants may 
be referred. In this age of specialization, 
training is essential if young people are not 
to enter "blind alley" occupations, and the 
dose coop)eration of this bureau with our 
public schools would be of inestimable bene- 
fit to our boys and girls. The annual re- 
port of the Public EmplovTiient Bureau of 
Los Angeles District may be obtained, on 
request, from Mr. Harry C. Donoho. 

At the close of the meeting an informal 
reception to speakers and guests was held 
and a picnic lunch served. The afternoon 
was devoted to a study of the ejdiibits at 
the Park and trips to manufacturing plants. 

The National Child Labor Commit- 
tee has been making a comprehensive 
study of child labor in agriculture — an al- 
most untouched, yet urgent, phase of the 
problem. They are also investigating and 
regulating the work of young children in 
street trades, which are not only morally 
dangerous, but are industrial blind-alleys 
as well. They hope to make a systematic 
study of the relation of child labor to 
juvenile delinquency, while continuing to 
work for better compulsory education, voca- 
tional training, and mothers' pension laws. 

The Child Labor Committee believes 
that the Keating-Owen Bill, passed by Con- 
gress in August, marks the greatest step 
yet taken in child labor reform. That law, 
when in force after September, 1917, will 
remedy the worst conditions persisting in 
manufacture and will reach 1. SO ,000 boys 
and girls. 

The Vocational Education Association 
of the Middle West held its third annual 
convention at the Auditorium Hotel, 
Chicago, January 18-20. 

The special object of this association is 
"the discussion of problems relating to in- 
dustrial, agricultural, and commercial educa- 
tion in their various phases" that all may 



become familiar with the -different solutions 
proposed for "industrial preparedness." 

One session was devoted especially to 
Work for Women; Mrs. Harlan W. Cooley, 
President, of the Chicago Women's Club, 
presided, and addresses were made by Flor- 
ence M. Marshall, Principal Manhattan 
School of Trades for Girls, on Training Girls 
for Wage-Earning Occupations; Miss Abby 
Marlatt, University of Wisconsin, on Effi- 
ciency in the Home; Prof. Da\nd Snedden, 
Columbia University, on the Double Prob- 
lem of Vocational Education for Women. 
Miss Isabel Bevier, of the University of 
Illinois, and Miss Ida M. Cook, Supervisor 
Household Arts, Chicago Public Schools, 
led the discussion. 

Other sessions discussed Vocational Ed- 
ucation from the standpoint of organized 
labor; the Principles of Agricultural and 
Industrial Legislation, and Vocational Effi- 
ciency. 

Ellen H. Richards Memorial Meeting. 
The home economics department of the 
Ohio Mechanics Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
celebrated Richards Day wTth an appro- 
priate program. 

Mrs. Gail Cornelius, dean of the depart- 
ment, sketched Mrs. Richard's life. Miss 
Hutzler told of the Lake Placid Conference 
of 1899, which marked the beginning of an 
organized home economics movement in 
this country. Miss Riggs read a paper on 
The Art of Homemaking, showing that 
science will make woman more efficient 
as housekeeper, as homemaker, and as 
mother. 

Miss Tischler, in charge of the work in 
domestic art, spoke about Mrs. Richards 
in relation to clothing. 

\ living librar>' of Mrs. Richards' books 
was the contribution of the students in 
the home economics department. They 
gave a series of short talks. 

The celebration ended with a social hour, 
with tea and tea-cakes made and served by 
the students. 



1917] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



197 



In connection with the meeting of the 
American Association of Agricultural 
Colleges and Experiment Stations, held 
in Washington in November, 1916, there was 
& conference of home economics teachers 
employed in Land Grant Colleges, pre- 
sided over by Mrs. Henrietta W. CaU-in of 
the Bureau of Education. 

Mrs. Calvin briefly reviewed the meeting 
of this same group of women in Berkeley, 
California, in August, 1915, which, as well 
as the meeting in Washington, was con- 
vened in response to a call issued by the 
Commissioner of Education. At the meet- 
ing in Berkeley a committee of three was 
appointed to present to the executive coun- 
cil of the American Association of Agricul- 
tural Colleges and Experiment Stations a 
request that there be created a Division of 
Home Economics in the College Section of 
the above-named association. 

The committee, consisting of Miss Berry 
of the University of Minnesota, Mrs. Mor- 
gan of the University of California, and 
Miss MacKay of the Iowa State Agricul- 
tural College, reported, through its chair- 
man. Miss Berr}', favorable action and the 
authorization of a Division of Home Eco- 
nomics. Miss Berry, of Minnesota, was 
unanimously elected chairman and Miss 
Helen Knowlton, of New Hampshire, re- 
cording secretary of this Home Economics 
Division of the College Section of the 
American Association of Agricultural Col- 
leges and Experiment Stations. 

The meeting was addressed by Dr. Clax- 
ton, Commissioner of Education, who em- 
phasized the peculiar kind of obligation 
to the people that belongs to instructors 
and directors of work in home economics. 

Miss Stanley of the University of Missouri 
was the first speaker of the day and dis- 
cussed "The content of special methods 
courses for students preparing to teach home 
economics." Miss Stanley's outline \\i\\ be 
given in the next number of the Journal. 
Miss White of Ohio State presented an 
outline that has been found effective in 
Ohio, and Miss Loomis, continuing the 
discussion of the same paper explained the 
work in the University of Nebraska. 

The topic "Adjustment of college re- 



quirements" was discussed by Miss Col- 
well of West Virginia, Miss Turner, Mr. 
Porter, Miss Haggard of Kansas, Miss 
White of Michigan, and others. 

The discussion relating to basis for in- 
crease of home economics salaries was opened 
by Miss Marlatt of XN'isconsin. She stated 
that it should be dependent upon teaching 
power, publication and research, and placed 
especial stress on teaching power. Miss 
Bevier also emphasized the need of teach- 
ing power in the individual, stating that 
"the teacher must have a philosophy of 
life to hold herself and others steady. She 
must be able to make some contribution 
to the life of the student and she must be 
able to do good team work. She must be 
one who will grow in her efficiency." 

In the discussion of the basis of the allot- 
ment of teachers' time, Miss White of Michi- 
gan said, "There must be an adjustment 
between the amount of work which is a 
burden and the amount of work which is 
an inspiration. The teacher should feel 
inspired to do outside work for herself." 
Miss White thought the schedule should be 
so arranged that the freshmen and sopho- 
mores could come in contact with the strong- 
est teachers in the department. Some 
thought that the number of pupils taught 
instead of the number of actual hours spent 
in the classroom should be considered. 

Miss MacKay reported a wide variation 
in teaching hours in Iowa State College. 

In considering the preparation for ex- 
tension teachers and women county agents, 
Miss Rose of Cornell University advised 
requirements similar to those made for men 
county agents: graduation from a four 
years' home economics course, five years 
practical experience, and one year of grad- 
uate study. 

The conference agreed that women exten- 
sion workers were often given too many 
hours of work per day and that it would be 
well to send two women into each field to 
share in the work done. 

No other conference of this kind will be 
called, since a yearly meeting of those inter- 
ested in these subjects will be held in con- 
nection with the annual meeting of the 
A. A. A. C. and E. S. 



198 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

THE MEETING AT KANSAS CITY 

The meeting of the American Home Economics Association at Kansas City in connection 
ydth the Department of Superintendence of the N. E. A. was as great a success as the one 
held last year at Detroit. That it is desirable to hold such sessions in connection w-ith this 
N. E. A. meeting is well proved. 

There were nearly three hundred present both morning and afternoon. The hall at the 
Y. W. C. A. which was given over to us was filled to overflowing. The program as announced 
was carried out with few changes. The most important addition was a short speech by 
Miss Alice Ravcnhill, whose unexpected presence was most welcome. As many of the papers 
as possible will be given in later numbers of the Journal. 

In addition to the meetings many other opportunities for becoming acquainted and mak- 
ing ourselves known were oflcred. 

The Journal and .Association were given a prominent position near the registration desk 
at Headquarters and many superintendents of schools and others gained here their first 
knowledge of our work. 

On Wednesday several of the home economics visitors attended the meeting of the Home 
Economics Section of the Woman's Club and made brief addresses. 

On Thursday a motor bus was provided for transporting home economics Nisitors to 
several schools and school lunch rooms. In the afternoon of the same day there was an auto- 
mobile drive through the city and afterwards a tea at the Technical High School, given 
by the Kansas City Home Economics Association. 0:; Friday those attending the luncheon 
that was announced at the Y. W. C. A. not only filled the space available but an overflow of 
an equal number was taken care of at the Kupper Hotel. 

Brief Notes. The next convention of the American Chemical Society is to be held 
in Kansas Cit}', April 11 to 14. The headquarters are at the Hotel Muehlbach. The 
complete program will be available about April 3. 

In addition to the resolutions already noted in the Joxtrnal (March and .April 
editorials) the following was passed with enthusiasm. 

"Resolved, That a hearty vote of thanks be extended by the American Home Eco- 
nomics -Association to Mrs. Van Zile, chairman of the program committee; to the Kansas 
City Home Economics Association, who entertained us yesterday afternoon; to Miss Essie 
Heyle, our Kansas City hostess; and to all the other Kansas City teachers who have so 
generously contributed toward the making of our present meeting such a pleasant and 
profitable session." 

The next meeting of the Division of Superintendence is to be held in Atlanta, Ge'^rgia. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. DC MAY, 1917 No. 5 

SOME ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS 
IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS' 

HENRIETTA W. CALVIN 

Specialist in Home Economics, United States Bureau of Education 

The administrative problems connected with home economics 
instruction resolve themselves, as do all school problems, into two 
groups: those resulting from human characteristics and conditions; 
and those due to the never absent financial restrictions. 

The all important human clement involved in these problems is that 
of the children: children from homes so prosperous that every duty is 
performed by hired servants; children from the middle class homes 
where all family members cooperate in discharging home tasks; 
children from homes where religious differences make many American 
practices offensive; children who never have quite enough food, or 
quite sufficient clothing, yet who, though often both hungry and cold, 
must be evolved into good citizens; and children from homes where no 
word of English is spoken and where the commonest American home 
and school standards are unknown must all be assisted in their de- 
velopment toward good citizenship. To adjust the courses and the 
lessons in the courses, to decide upon the points where special stress 
is most needed, to establish cooperation with the home, to secure the 
friendly interest of local dealers so that they will assist the teacher in 
her instruction ; all of these elements enter into the general adjustment 
for the good of the child. 

Satisfactory courses in home economics are vocational, pre-voca- 
tional, and of general educational value. They are vocational in so far 

' Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Kansas City, 
March 2, 1917. 

199 



200 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

as they prepare for the vocation of homemaking, the o(. cupation into 
which 93 out of every 100 enter; they are pre-vocational in so far as 
they prepare for the various wage-earning occupations which are out- 
growths of former home industries and which now employ the majority 
of wage earning women; and they are of general educational value in so 
far as home economics mstruction stimulates appreciation of scientific 
knowledge, awakens social conscientiousness, and trains in the accurate 
observation of the phenomena of plant and animal Hfe and the com- 
mercial activities of the city in which the student Hves. 

To formulate a course that will serve the school community is of 
primary importance. Such courses must be based upon a knowledge 
of the economic and social status of the homes from which the students 
come; of the probable years the girl will spend in school; of the occupa- 
tions probably open to her upon leaving school; of the probable num- 
ber of years she will work before marriage; of the information of which 
she will be in greatest need when she enters upon her homemaking 
life; of the opportunities offered for supplementing her regular school 
training by extension classes, both during her wage earning years and 
after her marriage; and upon information as to the probable continu- 
ance of certain groups of girls throughout elementary and secondary 
schools and their later entrance into college or university. 

A rigid uniform course in home economics in the school system of a 
larger city can never properly serve the needs of the dififerent school 
communities. Adaptation and diversification to meet the economic 
and social conditions must be made possible. This interpreted means 
establishing home economics work in lower grades in some schools than 
in others; it means allotting a greater portion of school time to this 
work in certain schools than is given in others; it means sometimes 
classifying students by age and need of instruction rather than by grade; 
and it means, more than all else, the adaptation of the actual lesson to 
the particular group of students. It means gi\'ing to the Jewish child 
that which the Jewish child needs and can use; to the newly arrived 
foreign child that which will most help the family in adjusting their 
habits of life to the re(juircments of a new environment; to the child 
of the unthrifty American that which will tend to awaken an apprecia- 
tion of the value of economy and intelligent consumption; to the child 
of the well-to-do that which will establish standards of beauty, sim- 
plicity, and right living, and remove the impression that work with the 
hands degrades. 



1917] ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS 201 

These variations and adaptations of courses do not mean that each 
teacher plan her own work; indeed, quite the opposite is true. There 
must be definitely and carefully planned courses, consistent throughout, 
leading the student to a pre-determined goal, by methods adjusted to 
social and economic needs. Stress upon the various phases must be 
placed according to the community need. 

Adaptation of courses necessitates extreme care in the placement 
of teachers of home economics. Only teachers of a sympathetic and 
understanding mind should be detailed to the cosmopoUtan sections 
of a city, and only those who are wilHng to acquaint themselves with 
the most vital needs of the children from poor families should be per- 
mitted to teach in the poorer quarters. The weaker and more inexperi- 
enced teacher may serve her apprenticeship in the schools in the more 
prosperous portions of the city where a formal course of study may be 
administered. 

AbiUty and willingness to serve in the difficult sections of the city 
should be rewarded by increased salary and by free time during the 
school day, that the teacher may estabHsh acquaintanceship with the 
school community. 

Efiicient teaching demands small classes and individual instruction, 
but small classes necessitate the emplojTnent of more teachers, and 
the employment of more teachers increases school expenses. 

The theory that all school purchases should be in large quantities, 
by one agent, and from competitive bids is so good that it is almost 
incomprehensible to the average school board that home economics 
people should not like such an arrangement, and that, when in force, it 
seriously hinders the efficiency of their teaching. 

The wise spending of money is an essential part of any home economics 
course and the students must have an opportunity to market for the 
food classes, to aid in the selection of replaced equipment and the 
materials used in furnishing the practice house. 

The shght saving effected by collective purchasing by the school 
board's financial agent is more than compensated by the training 
received by the children in seeing and assisting in marketing, and 
also in the teachers opportunity to vary the lessons to meet the local 
conditions. 

Articulation between grade and high school courses must be estab- 
lished and this can be successfully done only where authority and 
responsibihty for home economics instruction is centered in one in- 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

di\'idual. In large cities assistant supervisors are needed. Child, 
parent, school principal, room teacher, special home economics teacher — 
all add to the administrative problems, and all conflicting elements 
must be adjusted if the best instruction is to be given to the child. 

The tax-paying portion of the community complains at the cost of 
the newer type of education, seldom reaUzing that the social burden 
resulting from ill trained non-taxpayers finally falls upon the property 
owner. Thus the human problem and the financial problem become 
conflicting elements, and, in the effort to effect an adjustment of these, 
many a superintendent and supervisor have met defeat. 

Further administrative problems arise when the theory of adapta- 
tion of work to pupil-need is put in practice, since it involves the 
adjustment of class schedules and the maintenance of cooperative 
efi^ort among many teachers and principals, some of whom may not 
fully understand the need of this variation nor be in full sympathy 
with the newer educational ideals. 

Nor do courses, teachers, principals, and finances, comprise the 
entire Ust of possible causes of administration problems. Not only 
"What shall be taught?" but "Where shall it be taught?" and "How 
shall the teaching be done?" are ever present and debatable questions. 

In smaller school systems centers for teaching home economics have 
been found adequate, but as the population becomes more dense the 
tendency is toward larger school buildings, and the time arrives when 
there are enoiugh girls in each school to keep the home economics rooms 
in constant use. 

If the six-three-three-plan prevail, these centers will of necessity be 
estabhshed for the children of the fifth and sixth grade, and the junior 
high schools will be equipped completely for their work. Whether 
the junior high school be a part of the school system or the older type 
of high school be maintained, in either case it seems desirable that a full 
course with three double periods and two single periods per week he 
given throughout the ninth year. 

If work begins in the fifth grade — and in the fourth in the cosmo- 
politan sections of the city — and if in the fifth and sixth grades three 
hours weekly, and in the seventh and eighth five hours weekly are 
given to homemaking subjects, then it will be found that one sewing 
room, one laiioratory equipped for twenty pupils, and one small house 
or apartment can be advantageously maintained in each sch(X)l. 



1917] ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS IN HOME ECONOMICS 203 

The laboratory equipped for twenty to thirty with small cooking 
utensils permits teaching many children, a Uttle lesson at small expense. 
This is permissiljle for the average child in the fifth, sixth, and perhaps 
in the seventh grade, but some other method must be introduced if 
food preparation classes are to hold the interest and attention of eighth 
and ninth grade girls and give to them the knowledge, speed, and 
efficiency which rightfully belong to children completing the grammar or 
junior high school grades. The sale of the food prepared in class gives 
an opportunity for this better tjpe of teaching and diminishes the 
expense of the department. Penny lunches, teachers' lunches, food 
sales, and contributions to the school luncheons, all offer excellent 
opportunities for the cooking of family sized recipes. 

The advantage of practice homes as places for teaching home econ- 
omics has appealed to many educators. That the more nearly the 
conditions under which the instruction is given can approximate 
those of a real home, the more valuable that instruction, has been 
accepted as true by many superintendents and supervisors. 

The majority of home economics teachers have not, up to the pres- 
ent time, been prepared to manage properly a practice house, and have 
feared to attack the problem of the school lunch. The establishment 
of these has frequently met with the opposition of the teachers. To 
add duties through the noon period and not proportionately decrease 
other demands is manifestly unfair to the instructor having charge of 
food service. An inclination to grant to the teacher free time in 
acknowledgement of her noon work would remove some of the opposi- 
tion to these added responsibilities, and the colleges are so generally 
estabHshing practice houses that from now on the teacher will be 
more ready to make use of these in public school work. 

When satisfactory courses in foods, clothing, and home management 
have been made part of the required work of all girls until they have 
completed the ninth grade, and elective courses in home economics 
have leen established in all high schools except those Umited to trade 
or commercial training, the work, the real work, of the public schools 
will have been well begun, but much will remain to be developed. 

The wage-earning woman should have an opportunity to extend her 
knowledge in foods, clothing, personal hygiene, and sanitation in order 
that she may conserve her own health and intelligently expend her 
own income to meet her own requirements in food and clothing. 



204 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

The wage-earning girl needs instruction somewhat different from 
that given to the actual homemaker. These latter may rightfully 
demand that the public school system afford them opportunities for 
perfecting their knowledge in homemaking. 

The home worker and the wage earner require a somewhat different 
type of teacher from the one usually employed in the day schools. 

To find women with practical experience in home Ufe or in trade work 
who are able also to teach well is difficult. Indeed the whole question 
of securing and retaining satisfactory teachers of home economics 
presents many compUcations. Part of these difficulties arise because 
school boards limit too closely the compensation given for work of this 
kind, part come from the fact that many of the best colleges gi\ing 
teacher training are located in villages too small to afford the student 
opportunities to acquaint themselves with city Ufe problems, or to 
practice teaching under average city conditions, and not a few of the 
difficulties arise because of the marriage of the teachers. There is an 
average annual change of about one-third of all employed home eco- 
nomics teachers. 

The child with his environment, the parents with their lack of imder- 
standing of school problems, the school principal beset with many 
demands, the room teacher jealous of encroachment upon her time with 
her students, the special home economics teacher, often young and 
inexperienced in life and city problems, the tax payer ever criticising 
each added expenditure; all add to the administrative problems in- 
volved in building into a school system an adequate department of 
home economics, that will give to school girls the elements of an edu- 
cation for homemaking that will lead them to discover their special 
adaptness in order that they may later choose further vocational 
courses and find the wage earning occupation best suited to their abili- 
ties; and that will broaden the intellectual outlook of all girls so that 
they may better adjust themselves to their positions as responsible 
citizens in their community. 



1917! THE SCHOOL LUNCH IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 205 

THE SCHOOL LUNCH AS A PROJECT IN TEACHING 
COOKERY IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 

ESSIE MARGARET HEYLE 
Supervisor, Kansas City Elementary Schools 

The school lunch movement is growing faster than those who are 
not connected with a city school system realize. Whether we home 
economics teachers are to use these lunch rooms for teaching cookery 
is a matter for serious consideration. Kansas City has been experi- 
menting with this problem now for over three years. 

The history of our pubUc school lunch movement is similar to that of 
other cities. The efificiency of our schools was retarded by the mal- 
nourished and undernourished children. Many of them, from homes 
in which the mothers worked, were given 5 to 10 cents and locked out 
at noon. Those who resisted the attraction of the tops, marbles, 
jacks, pickles, and candy, and tried to buy nourishing food with their 
few pennies, often suffered because they had chosen unwisely, or be- 
cause the food had been spoiled or poorly prepared. 

One principal asked for a lunch room because too many children 
were sent to him in the afternoons who were feehng the effect of buying 
chilli in which the restaurant keeper did not use fresh meat. Another 
principal was appalled when he discovered that the groceryman op- 
posite sold 39 barr'els of pickles yearly to the pupils of his school. Other 
principals objected to the energy wasted in bringing a cold lunch to 
the body temperature and in digesting such foods as doughnuts, pies, 
thick slabs of cheese, or pork. For such reasons as these, three lunch 
rooms were established and each granted to a separate concessionaire 
who was expected to cooperate with the principal and home economics 
teacher. But unfortunately the proposition was a money making scheme 
to the concessionaire and since the school fixed the prices there was a 
constant fight to have simple nourishing foods of good quality sold. 

After two years of this struggle Mr. Patterson, a new principal in 
town, asked for and was granted a lunch room, not because the pupils 
in his district particularly needed one, but in order that the girls in the 
cookery classes might have an opportunity to cook in larger quantities. 
Mr. Patterson believed that the home economics work should function 
in the life of the school, not only for the good of the school and of the 
pupils rendering such service, but because such direct teaching would 



206 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

also help tlie home economics lessons to react more definitely and 
surely upon the home Ufe of the pupil. 

We knew of no other school in which the cafeteria lunch was pre- 
pared wholly by the pupils in their regular cookery lessons, and so the 
working out of the plan was our own. While it is far from being a model 
it has a sufficient number of good points to justify us in patterning the 
existing lunch rooms, and those later established, after this Garfield 
lunch room plan. The advantage of having the entire management 
and preparation of foods in the home economics department was at 
once apparent in the better cooked, cheaper, more wholesome, and more 
nourishing foods. The advantage to the child in the cookery classes 
will be discussed later. 

The plan as worked out for the elementary schools is as follows: 

Each child has one year of regular cookery before she takes lunch room 
cookery. This is in order to establish certain ideals and definite habits 
of cleanliness and of manipulation, and to give fundamental facts about 
foods and principles of cooking. 

Each class is divided so that a lunch room class will be composed of 
but 8 to 12 pupils. Lunch room classes meet one-fourth of a day once a 
week, but alternate so that a class that comes the first quarter of a day 
one week will cook the second quarter of the day the next week. One 
half of the boys in the room go to manual training when half of the girls 
go to cookery so that the grade teacher has a class left in her room to 
teach. This is an expensive arrangement as far as teachers salaries 
are concerned, but is necessary if the girls are to profit by this t}TDe of 
cookery lessons. 

Each lunch room has a helper, paid from the lunch room receipts, who 
does all heaxy lifting, washing of lunch room dishes, mashing of potatoes, 
and also the paring of the potatoes or other such routine duties after the 
pupils have mastered them sufficiently so that they have no further 
educative value. 

Each girl is responsible for washing all dishes which she uses in her own 
cooking, for leaving her working space in perfect condition, and for her 
share in doing the general cleaning of the room. 

Menus are varied sufficiently and are inclusive enough so that, as far 
as possible, cooking may be done in family quantities, and so that no 
girl needs to repeat a lesson she has learned. Soup, cocoa, white sauce, 
and a few other foods must of necessity be prepared in larger quantities 
than those used in a family. 



1917] THE SCHOOL LUNCH IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 207 

For every lesson a record is kept of the work of each girl and as a rule 
only failures are repeated. This takes careful planning on the part of a 
conscientious teacher who is unwilling to sacrifice the good of the pupil 
to the preparation of the lunch. 

A home economics teacher who has charge of a lunch room is required 
to teach five less classes a week than other home economics teachers. 
This is in appreciation of the fact that such a teacher is under a heavy 
strain during the noon hour, a rest period for other teachers, and that 
she needs time for bookkeeping, planning, and ordering. 

Lunch room receipts cover the cost of all food, the up-keep of equip- 
ment, the expense of all help except teachers' and janitors' salaries, the 
laundry, and usually the cost of the food materials used for regular 
fifth grade cooking lessons. 

During the three and one-half years that this plan has been in opera- 
tion, and that is now in eight elementary schools, we have learned cer- 
tain things about the lunch room as a project in teaching cookery : 

First. That lunch room cookery should never be the only type of 
cookery lessons given because too much needed instruction must be 
omitted. There is not time for teaching meal planning, table service, 
food values, or invalid cooker}^, and the cost of foods presents a different 
problem from that of the home because lunch room suppKes are bought 
wholesale. 

The family meal plan, whereby classes in 9 of the Kansas City schools 
prepare lunches for groups of teachers, who pay 15 cents each, presents 
a method of teaching family quantity cooking which has the advantage 
of giving pupils experience in planning meals for a definite cost, and in 
marketing and serxing. Two negro schools give lunch room cooking to 
the sixth grade girls, and family meal plan cooking to the seventh grade 
girls for at least part of the year. 

Second. We have learned that large quantity cooking, the product of 
which is to be used for a definite purpose, is a better method of teaching 
technique than the lesson with the individual recipe. In some part of a 
cookery course technique should be emphasized to the point where 
there will be for the pupil a real joy in accomplishing because the success 
of the product is sure. Does not this emphasis on practice belong to a 
large extent in the elementary schools, where the pleasure in using the 
larger muscles is keener and the interest in theory less interesting than 
to the older girl? 



208 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Third. We have found that cooking for others is a far more interesting 
and stimulating activity than cooking for oneself. It seems to be a more 
gripping experience and one which the pupil feels to be more worth 
while. It is only in a few instances of academic minded girls that pupils 
who have had large quantity cooking wish to go back to regular cookery. 
If you ask a girl who has had both kinds of cooker>' which she prefers, 
you are quite certain to get some such reply as this: "Oh, I like lunch 
room cooking best because you cook things for other people to eat and 
you know that they are good or else they wouldn't buy them." All of 
us want someone's approval of our products. This desire for approval 
is manifested in the regular cookery classes by the wish of pupils to serve 
their teacher or to take home what they have made, to show mother and 
father. I have heard children insist on taking home baked potatoes, 
bacon and omelet, griddle cakes and other foods equally undesirable 
when cold, and once when I was visiting a class a child sent back an 
imposing looking chauffeur in livery to get three prunes which she had 
cooked that day and forgotten. Surely it is worth while to cultivate 
directly in a girl this interest in cooking for others and the resultant 
pride in her success. 

Fourth. We believe that the estabhshing of right food habits is one 
of the most important functions of any school lunch room, and that the 
habit of eating simple, nourishing foods wiU be more permanently fixed 
if the pupils prepare at school the exact foods that they learn to Like 
in the lunch room. As one of the boys in a lunch room class expressed 
it, "I am going to put this over on the folks at home tonight." This 
desire to "put over" on the rest of the family what has been learned at 
school is the real test of our teaching. If what we teach does not func- 
tion in the home life of the pupil our home economics teaching is in vain. 
We have not investigated sufficiently to be certain, but we believe that 
lunch room cookery is functioning in the home more than regular cookery. 

Fifth. We have found that lunch room cooker\' has a real social 
value in that it gives an opportunity for pupils to share togetlier in a 
common enterprise for the benefit of a large number. There is a defi- 
nite feeling that the success of the lunch that day depends upon each 
one doing her utmost not only in the preparation of the dish assigned to 
her, but also in the doing of any extra tasks with wliich she can help. 
The joy of the children in rising to the occasion is inspiring, and the 
sense of responsibility they manifest in this common undertaking makes 
one hopeful for a more perfect cooperation among tlie women of tiie 



1917] THE SCHOOL LUNCH IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 209 

future in undertakings of common social interest. "The moral and 
practical discipline from sharing in a round of home duties is lost in 
many homes. Since this moral purpose, altruism, and cooperative 
spirit arising from wholesome home life are so often lacking in the pres- 
ent day city home, it is well for us to do what we can to emphasize 
these qualities, not only for the sake of the home and society, but be- 
cause knowledge that is gained by participating in social situations is 
more genuine and efifective." 

Sixth. We have learned that no better method of developing in- 
dependence, initiative, and resourcefulness can be found than to ask a 
girl to take the responsibility of preparing weekly, by herself, something 
that is to be judged on its merits and used by her associates. After a 
little experience in the lunch room girls can follow a new recipe inde- 
pendently, dividing it or increasing it, as the need arises, without the 
least hesitation, and with all of the confidence which is gained by having 
former efforts praised by those who patronize the lunch room. As one 
little girl told her mother who hesitated about allowing her daughter 
to prepare the stuffing for the Thanksgiving turkey: "Well, but mother, 
I made it at school and they all paid money for it and liked it." The 
same independence and confidence in her own ability does not seem to 
me to be possible when a girl prepares just an individual amount which 
she alone samples. The fact that each girl is responsible for the success 
of a dish seems to put her on her mettle and she expects and receives 
less help than she would if she were making an individual recipe under 
a teacher who spent all of her time directing the preparation of the 
one dish. The resourcefulness and initiative dev^eloped in working out 
such individual problems is the most decided advantage of such cookery 
and it is to be hoped these will be carried over into working out problems 
in like situations in life. 

I have been interested in writing this paper to see how strongly I seem 
to be advocating this type of cookery. As a matter of fact, Kansas 
City is seriously considering a different plan in the new lunch rooms 
that need to be installed. This change is contemplated because the 
plan now in operation is necessarily expensiv-e as far as salaries are 
concerned, is not workable in a small school to which a home economics 
teacher goes but once or twice a week, and because we realize that the 
variety of food that we sell is not needed by the child who must buy his 
limch. We are now trying the plan in one school of serving a very 
simple lunch consisting of bread, fruit, and one hot dish, prepared by a 



210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

woman under the direct supervision and management of the home eco- 
nomics teacher and principal. When the food to be prepared in the 
regular lesson is desirable to serve in the lunch room each girl prepares a 
larger amount than the individual recipe. 

But in spite of the fact that it is possible that we may not extend the 
use of the school lunch as a project in teaching cooking, we are convinced 
that lunch room cookery has a decided advantage in that such activity 
gives increased opportunities to develop technique, responsibility, in- 
itiative, independence, and ability to cooperate in a social project which 
is interesting to the girl. These are vital educative values and an oppor- 
tunity to use the lunch room to develop such qualities in our pupils 
should be taken advantage of whenever possible. However, lunch 
room cookery can not have these educative values for all girls unless 
the class is kept under twelve in number, and unless there is a capable, 
conscientious and real teacher directing the work. Even under ideal 
conditions it is desirable to have lunch room cookery only a part of a 
foods course and to precede it, and follow or supplement it with lessons 
that can not easily be taught in a lunch room course. 



OUTLINE OF THE CONTENT OF SPECIAL METHODS 

COURSES FOR STUDENTS PREPARING TO 

TEACH HOME ECONOMICS' 

LOUISE STANLEY 
University of Missouri 

I. Study of function of a course in teaching in home economics. 

1 . Point of view of 

(a) Prospective teachers. 

(b) Those already teaching. 

(c) Those engaged in training teachers. 

2. Relation to observation work. 

3. Relation to practice teaching. 

' Presented at the Conference of Home Economics Teachers Employed in Land Grant 
Colleges November 17, 1910, Washington, D. C. 



1917] CONTENT OF SPECIAL METHODS COURSES 211 

II. Function of home economics courses in school. 

1. Reasons usually given for teaching. 

2. Study of function — intrinsic and indirect. 

3. Value of clear appreciation of intrinsic function. 

4. Means of connecting more closely with home, 

III. Logical organization of material of home economics. 

IV, The place of the project in home economics teaching. 
V. Home economics in schools of different types. 

1. Study of place and function in 

(a) Rural school. 

(b) Elementary school. 

(c) High school. 

(d) Normal school. 

(e) College. 

(f) Vocational school. 

2. Effect of differentiation in function on presentation of the 

lesson and the subject matter presented. 

3. Effect of differentiation of function on organization of the 

course. 

4. The project as a teaching unit. 
VI. The high school course. 

1 . Review of intrinsic function in high schools. 

2. Organization. 

(a) Number of units. 

(b) SpeciaHzed or unspecialized, 

(c) Logical organization of subject matter. 

3. Presentation of individual lesson. 

(a) Value of logical outline for course and daily plan. 

(b) Value of clear conception of intrinsic function of each 

lesson. 

(c) Psychological as opposed to logical presentation of 

lesson. 

(d) Necessity for logical summary. 

(e) Place of drill and illustrative experiments. 

4. Use of the project in the high school. 
VII. Cost and arrangement of equipment. 

VIII. Laboratory management. 
IX. Demonstration work — ^place in teaching. 
X. Selection of a text book, and reference material. 
XI. The use of illustrative material. 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Xn. Vocational training in home economics. 

1. Place of vocational training, 

(a) High school. 

(b) Continuation courses. 

2. Type of courses. 

(a) Homemaking. 

(b) Home economics training of industrial application. 

3. Organization of courses. 

(a) Theoretical courses demanded. 

(b) Amount and t>'pe of practical courses. 



THE MODERN HOME 

Some people have the idea that the apartment house is going to de- 
stroy American home life, but when one considers that all recent investi- 
gation has shown that the health of city children is better than that of 
their sisters and brothers in the country; that the sanitary conditions 
are better and that their food is more healthfully cooked, he must come 
to the conclusion that even an apartment house is rather an admirable 
place in which to live. The socializing and institutionalizing of fami- 
lies is nothing to dread. The "good old-fashioned American home," 
I am afraid, is going to disappear 

The position of wife ought to be such that it would develop profes- 
sional spirit by which intercourse could be had with those engaged in 
the same tasks. But more than anything else she should see how her 
work is related to the larger life of the people and the nation. . . 

There is a great field for the study of household decoration. To be a 
specialist in clothes is a delightful field. But greater even than these 
is the spiritual and ethical uplift, enlarging and enriching the lives of 
the family, that a modern mother has leisure to give. — From President 
George Vincent, at Chautauqua Woman's Club, 1916. 



1917] LOSSES OF IKOX IN COOKING VEGETABLES 213 

LOSSES OF IRON IN COOKING VEGETABLES 

KATHARINE BLUNT 

University of Chicago 

AND 

FLORENCE A. OTIS 
College of Emporia, Emporia, Kansas 

Of the many published analyses of vegetables giving the iron content, 
most are on the raw substance, not the cooked. Further, with one 
slight exception,' the several important studies-- ^' * on losses in cooking 
vegetables have not included iron. Because of the importance of iron 
in the diet, and the habit some dietitians have of computing the amount 
of iron in the cooked food from the published percentages for the raw, 
regardless of the method of cooking, it seemed desirable to determine 
some iron losses. Spinach, string beans, navy beans, fresh peas, pota- 
toes were the vegetables chosen. These were cooked in considerable 
water, the water drained off, and the iron determined in the raw and 
in the cooked food and in the cooking water. 

Before presenting our experimental work it may be worth while to 
speak of the great variations found in the Hterature in the iron content 
of some of these substances. Spinach especially shows a great range: 
Sherman,* 0.0032 per cent; Czadek,^ 0.0033 per cent; Serger,^ 0.0095- 
0.0212 per cent; Haensel,* 0.024 per cent. Some of these investigators 
report their analyses in terms of percentage of the dry substance, but 
for convenience of comparison we have recomputed them here to per- 
centage of the whole spinach, .using 9 per cent solids as a fair average. 
Czadek^ was able by use of iron-containing fertilizers to raise the iron 
of his spinach from 0.0033 to 0.026 per cent — an almost eight-fold 

> Haensel, Biochem. Z., 16, (1909), p. 18. 

* Berry, Jour. Home Econ., 4, (1912), p. 405. 

» Williams, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 26, (1904), p. 252, and 29, (1907), p. 574. Jour. Ind. 
and Eng. Chem., 5, (1913), p. 653; Chemical News, 113, (1916), p. 145. 

* Snyder et al., U. S. Dept. Agr. OfiF. Exp. Sta. Bui., 43, (1897). 
' Sherman, Food Products, New York, 1914. 

'v. Czadek, Z. landw. V ersuchsuiesen Osterreich, 7, (1904), p. 65. Quoted by Konig, 
Chemie der Menschlichen Nahrungs-und Genussmiltel, III, 2, 838, Berlin, 1914. 
^ Serger, Pharm. Z., 51, (1906), p. 372. 
» Haensel, Biocliem. Z., 16, (1909), p. 9. 



214 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

increase. Potatoes vary from 0.0013 per cent (Sherman^ and Bunge') 
to 0.0076 and 0.0132 per cent (Haensel^). 

METHOD OF DETERMINATION OF IRON 

Of the various ways of determining iron the commonest — the gravimetric 
methods and the permanganate titration — are not sufficient y sensitive unless 
very inconveniently large quantities of vegetable are used. For instance, 
100 grams of spinach contains about 3 mg. of iron, and this quantity re- 
quires only 1 cc. of N/20 potassium permanganate for titration. The colori- 
metric method with potassium thiocyanate is much more satisfactory, for the 
red color of the ferric thiocyanate solution is so intense that it is visible in 
extreme dilution and slight variations in its intensity can readily be detected. 
We therefore have used this method. In employing it, it is necessary to have 
a standard of known iron content. This was prepared for our work by dis- 
soKing 0.10 gram of iron wire (99.9 per cent pure) in 5 cc. each of concentrated 
hydrochloric and nitric acids, and making up to 2 litres. One cubic centi- 
meter of the resulting solution contained 0.05 mg. of iron, or 0.00005 gram. 
Amounts of this standard, ranging from 0.5 cc. to 4 cc. and diflfering by 0.25 cc. 
were put into 100 cc. graduated flasks, a few drops of acid and an excess of 
potassium thiocyanate added, and the whole made up to the mark. Stand- 
ards were thus obtained of varying intensities of the red color of ferric thio- 
cyanate, ranging in iron content from 0.025 to 0.2 mg. Quantities that 
differed from each other by as little as 0.01 or 0.02 mg. of iron could be 
distinguished. It is essential here and wath the solution of the vegetable 
that an excess of the potassium thiocyanate be used. Otherwise the maximum 
intensity of red will not be reached, the color will fade, and certain other 
ions may interfere with the reaction. There must be at least twelve times as 
many grams of potassium thiocyanate as ferric chloride to produce the maxi- 
mum color,'" even when the two substances are together in purity. With 
too small amounts of thiocj-anate in the presence of various other ions, such 
as phosphates, the color reaction may be completely prevented." 

In preparing the vegetable for comparison with these standards organic 
matter had of course first to be destroyed. Simple ashing by direct ignition 
is possible, but if chlorides are present the process may involve loss of iron 
because of the volatility of ferric chloride. Ashing at fairly low temperature 
with occasional addition of a few drops of nitric acid is quick and probably 

•v. BunRe, Z. Biol., 41, (1001), p. 155. 

'« Curtman and Harris, Jour. Amer. Chem. Soc, 38, (1916), 2622, and Kruss and Moraht, 
Ber. 22, (1899), 2056. 

" With excess of thiocyanate wc have not observed the irrcifularitics found by Nottbohn 
and WcLszwangc, Z. Nahr-Genussm., 23, (1912) \y. 514, in their work on iron in milk ash. 
Adding varying amounts of phosphate to our standards had no eflect upon the red color. 



1917] LOSSES OF IRON IN COOKING VEGETABLES 215 

safe. We checked our results on the beans by this method, but 'n most of 
our determinations we oxidized in the "wet way." A convenient amount of 
the vegetable (from 2 to 10 grams) was weighed into a large evaporating dish 
or a small Kjeldahl flask and oxidation started by heating with a small amount 
of concentrated sulphuric acid. WTien the contents of the dish or flask were 
well charred, a small amount of nitric acid was added and heated until the 
brown oxides of nitrogen had disappeared and the white fumes of sulphuric 
acid were given off. This addition of nitric acid was repeated until the 
liquid in the dish was not charred when the white fumes appeared. This 
indicated that oxidation was completed, but to insure this point the solutions 
were boi'ed for twenty or thirty minutes longer. After cooUng this strongly 
acid solution, it was diluted to about twice the volume, boiled to remove 
any comb ned nitric add, again cooled and a few drops of nitric acid and an 
excess of potassium thiocj-unate added. The whole was made up to 50, 100, 
250, or 500 cc. according to the intensity of color expected. All or part of 
this was poured nto Nessler tubes and matched with one of the standards. 
Occasionally a brownish color was obtained instead of the pure red. This was 
apparently due either to using too little sulphuric acid and having a brown 
compound from the excess of nitric in the concentrated liquid, or to not boil- 
ing away the nitric on dilution. 

PREPARATION OF MATERIAL FOR ANALYSIS 

In cooking the vegetables, 5 to 10 grams of the raw material and 25 to 
75 cc. of distilled water were boiled in a covered beaker for twenty to 
forty minutes, or in the case of the na\y beans for two hours. The 
cooked vegetable was drained through a small aluminum sieve or tea 
strainer. The raw and the cooked vegetable, and the residue from the 
cooking water after evaporation, were analyzed according to the method 
described. In the majority of cases at least four checks were made for 
each part of the experiment. Of the potatoes, because indixiduals are 
known to differ considerably in composition,' ^ seven were scraped, washed 
in distilled water, grated and mixed. Four small samples of this uni- 
form pulp were taken for analysis. The cooked potatoes were treated 
in much the same way, seven being scraped and cooked together, then 
weighed, riced and well mixed, and four samples taken. The cooking 
water was of such an inconvenient quantity that it was evaporated 
to 200 cc, divided into four parts and analysis carried out as usual. 

" Jones and White, Vermont Agr. Exp. Sta. Report, 1901, p. 209. 



216 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



RESULTS 

The results of the experiments are given in the following tables. To 
avoid repetition, the details of the computation for spinach alone will 
be tabulated, and the other vegetables given more briefly. Table 1 
gives the figures for the iron in raw spinach, table 2 for cooked, and table 
3 for the cooking water as actually observed and as computed by sub- 
tracting the quantity of iron in the sample of the cooked from that in 
the raw. The percentage of the total iron of the spinach lost by this 

TABLE 1 
Raw spinach 



SPINACH TAKEN 


QDANTTTY OP STANDARD 
UATCHED 


IKON IN STANDARD 
HATCHED 


IRON PER 100 CRAMS RAW 
SPINACH 


grams 

2.0 
3.0 
4.0 


CC. 
1 

1 

2 


0.05 

0.087 
0.1 


mg. 

2.5 

2.9 
2.5 


Average 


2.6 







TABLE 2 

Cooked spinach 

(Oxidized material made up to 250 cc. Therefore reading of standard multiplied by 2.5) 



RAW SFINACB 
TAKEN 


COOKED SPINACH 
OBTAINED 


STANDARD MATCHED 


IRON IN STANDARD 
MATCHED X 2.5 


IRON PER 100 CRAMS 
COOKED SPINACH 


grams 

10.0 
10.0 
10.0 
10.0 


grams 

9.3 

8.4 
8.3 
8.1 


CC. 
1 

1 

1 
1 


mg. 

0.13 
0.13 

0.13 
0.13 


mg. 

1.4 
1.5 
1.5 
1.6 


Average 


1.5 







TABLE 3 
Cooking water from spinach 



IRON IN RAW 


IRON IN COOKED 
SPINACH OBTAINED 


IRON IN COOKING 
WATER, COMPUTED 


IKON IN COOKINO 

WATER, 

DETERMINED 


PERCENTAGE Of TOTAL IRON LOOT 




Computed 


DetermiDed 


mg. 


mg. 
0.13 
13 
0.13 
0.13 


mg. 

0.13 
13 

0.13 
0.13 


mg. 

09 
09 
0.15 
0.11 


per cent 


pfr cfnl 


Average 0.26 


0.13 


13 


0.11 


SO 


43 



1917 



LOSSES OF IRON IN COOKING VEGETABLES 



217 



process of cooking is thus 50 by computation and 43 as actually found 
in the water — nearly half of the total iron. 

The difference between the percentage of iron lost computed by sub- 
tracting the quantity in the cooked from the quantity in the raw (50 
per cent) , and the amount actually found in the cooking water (43 per 
cent) indicates considerable error. It is largely due to the fact that in 
working with, such minute quantities of iron a fairly high percentage of 
error is unavoidable. We believe that since several determinations 
were made for every raw and cooked vegetable, the average is fairly 
accurate. 

TABLE 4 

Ifilligrams of iron per 100 grams raw and cooked vegetable 



SPINACH 


STRING 


BEANS 


NAW 


BEANS 


FBESB 


PEAS 


POTATOES 


Raw 


Cooked 


Raw 


Cooked 


Raw 


Cooked 


Raw 


Cooked 


Raw 


Cooked 


2.5 


1.4 


1.0 


0.6 


7.0 


1.6 


2.7 


1.4 


0.9 


0.9 


2.9 


1.5 


1.2 


0.5 


8.7 


1.7 


2.4 


1.4 


1.4 


0.8 


2.5 


1.5 


1.2 


0.4 


8.7 




2.7 


1.3 


1.2 


0.9 




1.6 


1.0 


0.5 


9.0 

7.5 




3.0 




11 


0.9 


Average 2.6 


1.5 


1.1 


0.5 


8.2 


1.7 


2.7 


1.4 


1.1 


0.9 



TABLE 5 
Losses of iron in cooking vegetables 



VXCZIABLB 



Spinach 

String beans. Sample 1. 

" 2. 

" 3. 

Average . . . 

Navy beans . . Sample 1 . 

" 2. 

" 3. 

Average . . . 

Peas Sample 1 . 

" 2. 

" 3. 

Average . . , 

Potatoes 



RAW 

USED 



gram 

10.0 

10.0 

10.0 

10.2 

10.1 

5.0 

5.0 

5.0 

5.0 

5.2 

5.5 

5.4 

5.4 

490.0 



COOKED 

OB- 
TAINED 



gram 

8.5 

12.0 

11.8 

11.7 

11.8 

15.4 

15.0 

14.4 

14.9 

6.3 

6.2 

6.1 

6.2 

468.0 



IKON 
INBAW 



0.26 



0.11 



0.41 



0.14 

5.4 



TSON IN 
COOKED 



mg. 

0.13 

0.08 

0.06 

0.05 

0.063 

0.25 

0.25 
0.25 
0.08 
0.09 
0.09 
0.09 
4.2 



IKON IN COOKING 
WATER 



Com- 
puted 



mg. 

0.13 

0.03 

0.05 

0.06 

0.047 

0.16 

0.16 
0.16 
0.06 
0.05 
0.05 
0.05 
1.2 



Deter- 
mined 



mg. 

0.11 
0.04 

0.05 

0.04 

0.043 

0.13 

0.13 

0.13 

0.13 

0.06 

0.05 

0.05 

0.05 

0.80 



PEKCENTAOE OF 
TOTAL IRON LOST 



Com- 
puted 



per cent 



50 



43 



39 



36 

22 



Deter- 
mined 



per cent 



43 



39 



32 



36 
15 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

It is interesting to compare these losses with those of the magnesium 
and phosphorus as determined by Berry in boiling spinach. Of these 
minerals determined as magnesium oxide and phosphorus pentoxide 
were lost 60.38 per cent and 52.33 per cent respectively, and of the 
total ash 51.65 per cent — even greater quantities than in the case of 
our iron. 

The preceding tables include the results with aU the vegetables. 

For convenience, the milligrams of iron per 100 grams raw and cooked 
vegetable are brought together in table 4. Of course as some of the vege- 
tables lose weight in cooking and some gain, as shown in columns 2 and 
3 of table 5 , varying percentages of iron in the raw and the cooked give 
little indication of the actual quantity lost in cooking. The navy 
beans increase almost three times in weight in cooking, so that even if 
no loss in iron had taken place the percentage of iron in the cooked beans 
would be only one-third that in the raw. 

More significant is table 5 giving computed and observed losses of 
iron for all the vegetables. 

The vegetables all lost a large percentage of their iron. The loss 
was least for potatoes with their relatively small amount of surface 
exposed to the water, and most for spinach with its large surface, po- 
tatoes losing about a fifth of the total iron content, peas and beans 
between one-third and one-half, and spinach approximately one-half. 
These huge losses show clearly that the method of boiling vegetables in 
which the water is thrown away is highly wasteful of the important 
iron constituents. 



NORMAL SCHOOL COURSES 

Many bodies of teachers are gathered together from time to time to 
discuss not only their immediate and local problems but many broader 
principles of teaching or of administration. It seems of distinct ad- 
vantage when the results of such conferences may be passed from one 
grouj) to another. The following summar}- of the conclusions at the 
New England Conference of Home Economics Teachers, reported in our 
news column, may l)e helj)ful as a basis for similar discussion on the 
part of normal schools of other sections of the country. 



1917 i NORilAL SCHOOL COURSES 219 

SUMMARY OF DISCUSS TONS 

1. The course given in the normal schools should be planned with a 
definite purpose in mind. This purpose may be one of the following: 
(a) The preparation of special teachers of home economics for the com- 
mon schools of the state ; (b) The preparation of rural teachers so that 
they may give lessons in home making or conduct a school lunch in 
addition to their work of general teaching; (c) The acquaintance of 
all normal students with the fundamental principles of home economics 
that they may recognize its place in the general school curriculum ; that 
they may be able to cooperate intelligently with the special teacher of 
home economics ; and that they may be prepared to undertake intelli- 
gently the task of homemaking. 

Choice of subject matter and the relation of the course to other courses 
in the curriculum must be considered when planning the course. 

2. Time should be allowed for a course of adequate length. Inade- 
quate time allowance makes impossible the training necessary in the 
normal school. If special teachers of home economics are to be trained, 
a special course of two years is absolutely essential, and a course of 
three years is preferable. If the lessons are to prepare rural teachers 
for handling classes in cooking, sewing, and home making, a general or 
survey course of five periods a week should be required for an entire 
year. This course should include or be accompanied by observation and 
practice in the teaching of homemaking and the preparation of the 
school lunch in the rural school. The course offered the general student 
should also be a general course running through the year, five periods a 
week. 

3. The entrance requirements for the course should be defined. This 
is particularly necessary to the success of the course for the special 
teacher. Entrance requirements may include scholarship, age, and the 
completion of pre\ious grade or high school courses in homemaking. 
Recognition should be given the courses taken in the grades and high 
school. 

4. It is especially necessary that a well-balanced short course be worked 
out. This course should include simple problems in homemaking, and 
the elementary study of foods, cookery, textiles, and sewing. It must 
include both laboratory practice and lecture periods. 



220 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

FOOD WASTE OF ABOUT $700,000,000 

"For partial immediate relief, every individual and community should 
consider earnestly the matter of food conservation and the limitation 
of waste. As a nation we seem to have a disdain of economizing. In 
many homes there is a strong feeHng that it is 'only decent' to provide 
more food than will be eaten and that it is demeaning to reckon closely. 
The experts of the Department of Agriculture report to me th-at the 
dietary studies made by them point to an annual food waste of about 
$700,000,000. Even if the estimate were reduced by half, the waste 
would still be enormous. 

"The food waste in the household, results in large measure from bad 
preparation and bad cooking, from improper care and handling, and, 
in well-to-do famiUes, from serving an undue number of courses and 
an over-abundant supply and failing to save and utilize the food not 
consumed. As an instance of improper handling, it is discovered that 
in the preparation of potatoes 20 per cent of the edible portion in many 
cases is discarded." — Secretary oj Agriculture, March 3, 1917. 



PROPOSALS presented on April 16, 1917, by Dean Marion Talbot 
to the Women Students of the University of Chicago by means of 
which they may share in the defense and preservation of the Nation. 

Realizing that my country needs the loyal service of all its women, both 
now and in times of peace, I pledge myself to the tasks I have indicated 
on this sheet atid I will undertake to perform these duties as conscientiously 
as if I were formally enlisted for tnilitary service. 

1. I agree to make an effort to increase my physical strength and \\goT. 

2. I agree to help some young person to increase his physical strength and 
vigor. 

3. I agree to wear a costume adapted to my occupation, avoiding waste 
and display. 



1917] STUDENTS* PLEDGE 221 

4. I agree to promote economy in food supplies by (a) the observance of 
rational economy in my personal use of food ; (b) organizing groups of women 
for the study of food economy. 

5. I agree to foster the proper use of foods by learning how to prepare them. 

6. I agree to aid in increasing the food supply by (a) personally culti- 
vating a plot of land; (b) helping to organize groups of children to plant gar- 
dens in unoccupied lots. 

7. I agree to take an active part in some organized movement for the 
prevention of infant mortahty. 

8. I agree to take an active part in a child-welfare agency. 

9. I agree to inform myself as to approved methods of school nursing and 
to do all in my power to introduce this means of conserving the health of 
children into the schools of my community. 

10. I agree to help provide for the children and dependent members of 
the family of a man or woman "at the front" in war or industry, 

11. I agree, realizing that vice and alcoholism in increasing measure ac- 
company war, and believing that future generations should be given by birth 
the best in health and mind that ethical hving among men can bestow, to 
urge that marriage should take place only among those who can show that 
they are free from any disease which may be transmitted to future generations. 

12. I agree to establish friendly relations with persons whose famOies 
came to this country more recently than mine, and in this and every possible 
way to help promote a feeUng of international sympathy. 

13. I agree to study the various proposals which have been brought for- 
ward for the estabUshment of a Society of Nations and organized common 
peace and to do all in my power to build a new social order based, not on 
mutual distrust and selfish competition, but on confidence and good- will, 
upon the spirit of service and cooperation. 

14. I agree, provided my scholarship and health are adequate, to register 
for one of the following courses, each to count as a half-major, and taken 
without fee: 

I. Household Administration 30: Social Service in War Time. — 
Assistant Professor Breckinridge, Miss Bird, and Assistants. ^ Mj. 
Monday, 4:00-5:50. Field work to be arranged. 

II. Home Economics 50: Food: Conservation and Production. — Assist- 
ant Professor Van Hoesen and Assistants. ^ Mj. Monday and 
Wednesday, 4:35. Laboratory to be arranged. 

III. Physiology 5: First Aid. — Professor Carlson, Dr. Young, and 
Assistants. ^ Mj. Monday and Wednesday, 4:30 to 6:00. 



222 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Indiana Vniversity, 
Bloomington, Indiana. 
To the Journal of Home Economics: 

During the next few months and perhaps for a longer period, there 
will be a great need for garments, bandages, and many other articles 
that will be distributed through the Red Cross Society of America. 
The women of the country are organizing in order to be of as much 
help as possible. Shall we teachers of home economics neglect our great 
opportunity to be of servdce? Why not organize all the textile and 
clothing departments in the universities and high schools and put our- 
selves at the disposal of the Red Cross Society in our vicinity? This 
work need not in any way interfere with the established courses carried 
on at present, for the students would learn the same principles in mak- 
ing a day shirt for a wounded soldier as they would in making a shirt 
waist for themselves, and in addition they would derive the benefit of 
doing something for others. 

I am writing this hoping it may reach the Jolt^nal before it goes to 
press and that it may persuade some teachers to start the work this 
summer. The Red Cross is very glad to assist in any way possible by 
sending patterns and specifications for garments and bandages. Let 
us not neglect our opportunities. 

Elizabeth Sage, 
A ssistant Projessdr oj Home Economics. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

CLUB PROGRAMS IN HOME ECONOMICS 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 

Unprecedented opportunities are presented to all home economics 
workers at the present time. This is as true of home economics depart- 
ments in the clubs as it is of the home economics workers elsewhere. 

We are confronted with the situation of an actual shortage in certain 
food supplies. This should be understood and realized in order that 
a sane and economic procedure may be advised and carried out. For 
when there is a shortage the only possible relief is through lessening the 
demand, and sa\ing material. 

There is a very great increase in the prices of many household 
necessities, and the conditions of war surrounding us do not promise an 
early relief from this pressure. We all need to realize fully that the con- 
servation of every material resource is not alone an imperative need, 
but a patriotic duty. To teach how to use these resources to best ac- 
complish this desired end falls upon those who have been educated, 
trained, and experienced in the economics of consumption. To give 
opportunity for such teaching is the part of the club women, who do 
represent the organized housewives of this country. And all of it, the 
teaching, preaching, leading, doing, must be done with extreme care. 
It requires a clearness of vision, and a sanity of method which will 
bring the right results. People are to be enthused and inspired to do 
the right things, but they must be most cautiously kept from doing the 
wrong. And the wrong are so easy. 

The chairmen of home economics departments in the clubs should, if 
possible, induce the chairmen of other departments to unite with them 
in a real campaign of education which may not be too greatly inter- 
rupted by the summer vacation from club affairs. All of us are being 
asked to index or register ourselves in organization after organization 
springing up all over the country under the impetus of patriotic zeal. 
Much of it is real, but club women and others need to realize that all 
situations offer opportunities for the self-seeker and those with ulterior 

223 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

ends in view to promote their schemes. This is the tin'<* to move with 
caution and wisdom, to know before one acts. There is too great a ten- 
dency to hurry to do something before all the circumstances are inves- 
tigated and the results of such doing foreseen as clearly as possible. 

Club women are already organized. There is no need of duplicating 
effort, or of wasting money, strength, and time in multiplying organiza- 
tions. If each one of us has been registered and indexed in as many 
places and ways as have been presented, there must be milhons of us 
ready to do all sorts of things for which most of us have had no training 
whatever. 

Real preparedness for the events of war necessarily includes the homes 
of any nation. Europe has learned how to use her food and other sup)- 
plies. And the moment has arrived when we also have to know these 
things. But we have to know them actually, not simply as rumors. 
We must seek the right sources of knowledge and information, and 
prophets must be raised up everywhere to impress upon the women 
of this country the extreme importance of their economic function and 
the need of learning to perform it successfully. 

There are many of us, of course, who, with or without reason, have a 
degree of self-importance. Nevertheless, it is true that one of the most 
difficult things to teach women is the far-reaching influence of their 
every economic deed. That the way each spends her money has its 
impress upon the entire producing world seems too big a statement to 
be comprehended. But it is true. 

The United States is not stigmatized as a spend-thrift nation because 
of the way Congress spends millions or billions extravagantly, or in 
ways which some deplore. It is because it is a spendthrift nation in 
its homes, and because it has failed to conserve carefully its great nat- 
ural resources, forests, water, coal, oil, and other things. But now we 
have to forget the things we have done or failed to do, while we siilfen 
every moral fiber and learn the great lesson war teaches, that of self- 
sacrifice. 

It is each woman's duty, it is her paramount business, to realize that 
the way in which her wealth is used assists or retards the progress of the 
country, therefore at this particular time she must learn to use all her 
resources in the right way, and spend her money for the right things. 

When one reads the statement made at a recent convention of shoe 
manufacturers, that every inch added to the height of women's shoes 
adds a million dollars to their cost, it would seem that we might all 



1917] CLUB PROGRAMS IN HOME ECONOMICS 225 

realize what it means to the consumer. Yet it has to be pointed out 
that this is one of the unnecessary ways in which the wrong choice has 
added to the cost of Hving. We pay the extra milhon dollars. The 
consumers always pay, and we all pay for the ignorance, the thought- 
lessness, the selfishness, the ridiculousness of others. 

The majority of housekeepers, even those many who are desirous 
of producing the best results in homemaking, and learning all they can 
of scientific management, need to see that their entire procedure is neces- 
sarily modified and directed by the economic laws many of them have 
never learned. Because they have not learned these they are too fre- 
quently kept from seeing their Business Big. Nor is theirs the only 
failure. Home economics teachers themselves are far too fond of dwell- 
ing upon details rather than results. Many neither teach nor preach the 
reason, the ultimate reason, for the study of nutrition, the chemistry of 
foods, the physics of heat, and the bacteriology of yeasts and molds. 
And if the women, careful, painstaking, conscientious as they may be, 
only see in their housekeeping the daily, often tiresome tasks of plan- 
ning or cooking three meals a day, of keeping the house clean and tidy, 
buying the supplies and using them again, an endless round of liked or 
dishked duties, why should they crowd the assembly room on home 
economics day to learn about duties so tiresome to perform? 

The fact is if they often will not come to a home economics lecture un- 
less enticed by the kindergarten method of seeing some other woman 
prepare recipes which may give them new ideas of fancy dishes for com- 
pany affairs, it is largely because we have failed to instill into the 
programs the interest which home economics so surely has. Now come 
war conditions, and the opportunity is ours. For, as surely as Europe 
has rolled up an appalling war' debt, just so surely wiU economic pressure 
come upon us. It is already felt. 

There is already a lessening of available agricultural products for our 
own use. Here are certain known facts. The aimual consumption of 
wheat in the United States in the form of flour is approximately 5,000,- 
000,000 bushels. Or, measured in barrels, the annual consumption of 
flour is a barrel per capita. The shortage of wheat last year and the 
demand upon us to feed our aUies makes probable the reducing of our 
supply of flour below this barrel mark. 

At once the necessity is forced upon us to know how to substitute 
other things, and this means that each of us must know the food value 
and the use of other grains and food materials, what may be substituted 



226 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

for wheat flour, and what may not. For this very shortage is going to 
pave the way for unwise legislation, for wrong deeds and misrepresen- 
tations as to the value of mixed flours, and the use of wrong substitutes. 
At the second Pan-American Scientific Congress held in Washington 
in December, 1915, Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel, Professor of Physiological 
Chemistry in the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University, pre- 
sented a paper on Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to 
Nutrition, which has since been issued in book form by the Yale Uni- 
versity Press. I wish to quote from that paper, because all of it bears 
so fundamentally upon our present food problem. 

The development of commerce among nations having adequate means of 
communication has rendered the distribution of food materials easy and 
developed a sense of security (under normal conditions) against failure of 
food supplies. The growing organization of transportation facilities has 
encouraged the introduction of dietary changes never thought possible or 
even contemplated a few generations ago. Incidents associated Nsith the 
altered distribution of wealth have improved the nutrition as well as other 
conditions of U\ang among that large group of our population which has been 
termed the "healthier well-to-do classes." 

The supply of food energy and its availability where needed are inter- 
related closely with a variety of factors, the bearing of which upon the 
problem at hand is not always evident upon the surface. Some of these 
features may be classified superficially as follows : 

1. Food production. 

2. Food preservation and food conservation. 

3. Transportation faciUties. 

4. Customs in diet. 

5. Changing industrial and social conditions, and other economic 
and hygienic factors. 

This seems to indicate a program of study or investigation of extreme 
need and very great interest at just this time. In order that we may 
unite in learning how to use our food stufi"s we must first know the com- 
mon facts alxjut them, such things as necessarily afl'cct both the cost 
and the price. For instance, some months ago when I was speaking 
in a Middle West city, a woman in the audience asked "Miss Johnson, 
when are tomatoes in season here?" And she actually did not know. 
Tomatoes were in the market all the year. 'I'heir price varied, but it 
was reaching a sort of level, a mean between the previous extremes of 
the high prices of winter and the low ones of early fall. 



1917] CLUB PROGRAMS IN HOME ECONOMICS 227 

Would it not be a wise plan for each community to call its women's 
clubs together, and organize a sort of self-educating conservation 
movement? There are available sources of actual knowledge in every 
village, city, or town. The grocer and the farmer, the dair\Tnan and the 
butcher know the facts relating to the obtaining, selling, and distributing 
of the commodities they handle. These producers do not need in- 
vestigating. They need s>Tnpathetic cooperation. Wherever it is 
possible to have real community meetings in which men and women 
could join together in a discussion of cost and price, and all the factors 
that govern these, it would create confidence, establish understanding, 
and undoubtedly assist in regulating conditions. 

In order to regulate prices, housewives must learn what they do on 
their side to increase them, and how they may by concerted effort 
lessen some of this expense. This problem of the food supply is a mat- 
ter of supreme importance, for physical efficiency is dependent upon it. 
And we must at this time learn how to buy and use all food stuffs to their 
best advantage. Getting the worth of one's money in foods means 
buying the most adequate nutrition at the lowest price. Yet that is 
not all there is to the home economics program. We hear so much about 
the cost of food we might be led to think it is the only household com- 
modity that has risen in price. Even if this were so we would have 
more to spend on food if we knew how to spend less for other things. 

This is the time to study the budget. It is the time to plan heart to 
heart conferences, not merely between Club members, but between those 
who grow and make things and those who buy and use them. Out of 
all this excitement, and agitation and hard times for many, good will 
come, if we use the opportunities presented to learn how to live simply, 
properly, and well. 

The scientists in the Nutrition Di\dsion of the Department of Agri- 
culture have already sent out much data on how to select foods so as 
to insure a proper diet. They are endeavoring to give the greatest as- 
sistance possible in a crisis. This material is intended for the assistance 
of the homes of the nation, and those in the homes should learn to turn 
to the OflSce of Home Economics in that Department for it, and to 
depend upon it. 

Not long ago I heard a teacher of home economics in a certain school 
say that the chief difficulty they had with the girls was, "But I don't 
like it." The students would submit plans for meals, and the need of 
adjustments would be shown, to meet with the reply, "But I don't like 



228 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May- 

it." Or it would be said, "You should not put these tilings together," 
and the answer comes, "But I like it." 

This is t}T)ical of an attitude not confined to youth alone that indi- 
cates a softening of moral fiber, a lack of the resistance bred of self- 
control and self-sacrifice. There are many things we do not like which 
we have to accept or bear. There are others we Hke which we must go 
without. If we are to really economize, to live within our means in 
such a way as to conserve the country's resources, and this is a definite 
way in which we may give loyal, vaHant sersdce, we must begin by 
learning to hke things, and to do without some we have hked. It won't 
hurt us. It will be good for us. Only it must be done not with a mar- 
tyr's zeal, but with the educated common sense which selects and 
chooses. 

Home economics programs should be formed on the basis of studying 
values, of learning the community's needs, of investigating household 
wastes, and knowing the facts on both sides of the counter. There 
are things to do, many of them. One of the great things is to assist in 
promoting the home garden movement. If we all grow things to eat, 
we will have more of them. But do not, oh, do not let the agitator agi- 
tate us. And let us fully realize that patriotism hke charity begins at 
home. 



GOOD FOOD IS WASTED: 

If it gets into the garbage pail. 
If allowed to spoil in the home. 
If ruined by careless cooking. 
If carelessly pared and trimmed. 
If too much is served at a meal. 



DEMONSTRATE THRIFT IN YOUR HOME 
Make Saving, Rather than Spending, Your Social Standard. 



1917] NUTRITIVE VALUE OF OLEOMARGARINE AND BUTTER 229 

THE RELATIVE NUTRITIVE VALUE OF OLEOMARGARINE 

AND BUTTER 

Several questions have arisen in regard to the relative nutritive value 
of oleomargarine and butter. The following questions were sent to 
Dr. McCollum, of the University of Wisconsin, whose article was 
quoted in the December, 1916, Journal. 

First. Does oleomargarine contain any of the "Fat Soluble A* sub- 
stance?" 

Second. If so, does it contain enough so that it can replace butter 
in the diet? 

Third. Is there any possible objection to its use as a butter substitute 
provided whole milk, eggs, and meat form part of the diet? 

Fourth. If not desirable to substitute it wholly for butter, to what 
extent might this be done? 

His reply follows: 

Oleomargarine does contain some of the fat soluble A. This is true for two 
reasons. There is a small amount of this in the body fat, especially of the 
herbivora which eat a large amount of the leafy portion of the plant, this 
part being much richer in fat soluble A than is the seed. As Osborne and 
Mendel have shown, when beef is melted and allowed to partially crystalize 
the oil is greatly enriched in the dietary substance in question, whereas the 
crystals which are filtered ofif do not contain it. This oil is the basis of the 
production of oleomargarine. 

The body fats of animals are usually churned with milk in the preparation 
of oleo. I have recently found that approximately half of the fat soluble 
A in milk is in the fat and half in the fat free portion, that is, it is about 
tliirty-three times as soluble in fats as in water. In the process of churning, 
the animal fat will pick up a little more of this constituent from the skim 
milk. Experiments which we conducted a year ago show that 3 per cent of 
butter fat furnishes the minimum supply of this factor for normal growth 
in young rats. In comparable experiments 10 per cent oleo was the mini- 
mum which would serve this purpose. This answers the first and second 
questions. 

Regarding 3, I see no reason why oleomargarine should be condemned as 
a dietary constituent, provided the things enumerated are included in the 
diet. Doubtless many brands of butter substitutes are perfectly whole- 
some food products. 

In the light of what I have said a specific answer to the foiuth question 
is not necessary. 

' See Jour. H. E., Dec. 1916, pp. 664^666— An Adequate Diet; also Feb., 1917, p. 90. 



230 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

SOME THINGS TO DO AND SOME NOT TO DO 

The present indications are that there is to be a shortage of cereals 
so that not only every slice but every crumb of bread should be saved 
"for the safety of the nation," not merely because of the result of sav- 
ing on the pocket book of the consumer. 

There is to be a scarcity of all commercially canned goods. Every 
housewife should save every particle of perishable fruit and vegetable 
food and either can or dry it. Cans, either tin or glass, will be difficult 
to obtain and old fashioned drying of fruits and vegetables should again 
be practiced. This applies not only to the country with its surplus 
of food materials, but to the city housekeeper as well. Unused stalks 
of celery and celery leaves may be dried in the oven or over the radia- 
tor and kept for soup or for seasoning, and the same thing is true of 
many other vegetables. 

Save all fats. We are now importing large quantities of butter. 
Even cottonseed oil has a greatly lessened production on account of 
the boll wee\'il. 

The Departments of Agriculture in the New England and Middle 
States are urging the farmers not to kill young animals. If housekeep- 
ers will refrain from buying veal and young lamb the farmers wiU not 
send them to market. 

There is a shortage of paper. Do not bum soiled rags but wash them 
and sell for paper rags, "not for the personal gain but because of the 
nation's needs." City people very generally send out the waste papers 
and rags chiefly because they have no way to burn them, but country 
people often bum or throw them out to decay. Sec that they are used. 
Values have changed. The shortage of material outweighs the labor 
involved. 

Save every particle of old linen, sheets, and white goods because of 
the need of these in all hospitals. 

Woolens will be absolutely out of the market by fall. Plan to re- 
make and extend the usefulness of the family's fall and winter clothing. 

Save your shoes and wear them longer and so hclji pre\'ent a shortage 
of leather. 

Do not lay in a stock of food material beyond your needs. The buy- 
ing up of large rjuantitics will only tend to raise prices. If there is to 
to Ije a shortage of any particukir material go witiiout it if }'ou can. 
Some one else may need it more. 



1917] DO YOUR BIT 231 

There has never been so good an opportunity to teach and practice 
care of clothing that it may last longer, saving of food material that 
there may be enough for all. The woman who has hesitated to enforce 
the economical use of materials in her household for fear of the mis- 
judgment of her hberality may now realize that what once was house- 
hold efficiency has become a national duty, and she will meet a response 
from family and employee. 



DO YOUR BIT 

President Wilson issues the following appeal to all the people of the 
nation urging them to join the great service army. 

To Farmers. — Increase the produc-tion of your land and cooper- 
ate in the sale and distribution of your products. 

To Men and Boys. — Turn in hosts to the farms to help cultivate 
and harvest the vast crops imperatively needed. 

To Middlemen. — Forego unusual profits and "organize and ex- 
pedite shipments of suppUes." 

To Railway Men.— See to it that there shall be no "obstruction 
of any kind, no inefficiency or slackened power" of the "arteries of the 
nation's life." 

To Merchants. — Take for your motto, "Small profits and quick 
service." 

To Shipbuilders. — Speed construction of ships, for "the life of 
the war depends upon" you. 

To Miners. — If you "slacken or fail, armies and statesmen are 
helpless." 

To Manufacturing Men. — "Speed and perfect every process," 
for your "service is absolutely indispensable" to the nation. 

To Gardeners. By creating and cultivating gardens you can help 
"greatly to solve the problem of feeding the nations." 

To Housewives.— ELIMINATE WASTEFULNESS AND EX- 
TRAVAGANCE. 

To Editors and Advertising Agencies. — Give widespread circula- 
tion and repetition to this appeal. 



232 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

LOSSES IN COOKING VEGETABLES 

The results given in the article in this number (p. 213) on losses of 
Iron in Cooking Vegetables are of as much interest to the housekeeper as 
to the teacher. 

Potatoes, pared before boiling, lost into the water in which they 
were cooked about one-fifth of the iron they contained; peas and beans 
lost from one-third to two-fifths, and spinach one-half of the total 
amount present. This variation is because of the relative amount of 
surface exposed in the different vegetables. 

The amount of iron in our foods is small. Its importance to the 
body is great. We should conserve it to the greatest possible extent. 
To do this we should either steam our vegetables or use the water in 
which they are cooked. If potatoes are to be boiled and the water 
thrown away, they should be boiled "in their jackets." 

So far as potatoes are concerned, with the present scarcity, the waste 
necessarily involved in paring before cooking should be eliminated. 

SOME HELPFUL BULLETINS 

Send to the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, or to 
your representative or senator for Farmers' Bulletin 808, How to Select 
Foods, I. What the Body Needs. Send also for Farmers' Bulletin 391, 
Economical Use of Meat in the Home. Farmers' Bulletin 487, Cheese 
and Its Economical Use in the Diet. Send to the Superintendent of 
Documents, Washington, D. C, for Department Bulletin 469, Fats 
and Their Economical Use in the Home, (Price 5 cents). 

A BABY WEEK EXHIBIT 

The National Child Welfare Exhil)it Association is offering a Parcel 
Post Exhibit on Healthy Babies and Healthy Children. This would 
be of great service ui connection with baby week celebrations. It 
could afterwards be made available for Women's Clubs, Health Confer- 
ences, Church Societies, Parent Teacher Associations. 

It may be obt^iined from the headquarters 70 Fifth .\venuc, New York 
City. 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

There is still a prevailing opinion, even among educated people, that high school work in 
home economics means nothing more than the teaching of cooking and sewing. 

The following paragraph written by a sixteen year old high school senior in her first year 
of home economics work shows that in this school, at least, there are other aims in view. 

This was written as a theme for part of an examination, after the quotation from Miss 
Arnold in the November number of the Journal had been given to the class, with questions 
upon it. — The Editor. 

HOME MANAGEMENT 

ALTA BOYLEN 
High School, Pendleton, Oregon 

No woman can rightly or wisely administer a home unless she has a 
clear sense of proportion. By proportion we mean the ability to dis- 
tinguish the important duties from the unimportant duties. A woman 
who spends her time fretting about the unimportant things in a home 
will never become an efficient administrator of that home. While I 
think that keeping the house clean is of importance, I do not think 
that it is of as much importance as keeping the minds and ideals of 
the family pure and clean. 

The thing which is always and forever essential should be perfectly 
clear to her. She should know what influences tend toward the better- 
ment of home life and should plan her work accordingly. She should 
know that the essentials of any home are: system, godliness, and hos- 
pitality. 

The tricks, fashions, and devices which add to our conveniences 
should be brought to their proper places in our thinking. We should 
not grow into the habit of thinking and wondering all the time what 
new device we can buy which will make our life easier, but we should 
plan how to use what we have. We should not deem it necessary to 
purchase every little bauble which we think will add to our comfort; 
in many cases these things are not of much help after we buy them. 

The home is for the citizens of our country. It is the place where the 
children should learn the right principles of life; where they should get 

233 



234 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

the training which will enable them to go out and grapple with the prob- 
lems of life. The homes of the people are the foundation of the strength 
of our national government and should be built upon a solid basis of 
truth and righteousness. 

The home should be refined. If the children do not learn refinement 
in the home, where will they learn it? The atmosphere of the home 
should be one of restfulness and simplicity. It should be tastefully fur- 
nished with many good books and pictures which will stimulate the 
minds of the children to think along educational lines. It should be 
orderly and systematic. This will incite the children to think along 
these lines. If we live in a disorderly house our minds soon become 
disorderly and we cannot think clearly on the problems which are sure 
to confront us all through life. It should also care for the physical 
development of the child, and see that he gets the right principles and 
training in health and sanitation. 

In short it should minister to him physically, mentally, and morally. 



A STUDY OF AMOUNTS SPENT FOR FOOD MATERIALS 

This study was carried on by Miss Ruth Sweat, '16, Montana State 
College, Bozeman, Montana, among fourteen faculty families beginning 
February 27, 1916, and ending May 15, 1916, for the purpose of ob- 
taining information concerning : 

1. The amount of money spent for food materials; 

2. The percentage of the total food expenditure spent for each class 
of food materials; 

3. The variations of expenditure in the families with cliildren and in 
the families without. 

It will be seen from the tables below that the largest item in the 
majority of cases is in the dairy column, especially where there are 
children in the family. The greatest variance is in the meat. In one 
case the meat expenditure is live times as large as in another, with the 
same number in the family. 

The percentage spent for fruit and cereals was liighcr in the families 
with children, while the vegetable expenditure ran much liighcr in the 
families without children. 



1917] 



AMOUNTS SPENT FOR FOOD MATERIALS 



235 



Weekly average expenditure for each food material 



2 


at H 
■A 


o u 


< 


H 


o 
o 

M 


>< 

a 

< 

a 


s 

o 

S 


« 


3 

1 


^ 




s 

if 

in 


a 
o 


A 


3 






$0.78 


SO. 63 


$2.28 


$1.30 


SO. 73 


$0.68 


$0.07 


$0.12 


$0.54 


$0.51 


B 


2 


1 


Under 1 yr. 


Left 


at the 


end 


of thi 


rd we 


ek. 










C 


2 






.50 


.26 


1.48 


.31 


.86 


.51 


.037 


.07 


.74 


.17 


D 


2 


2 


7,13, 


1.32 


.50 


1.72 


1.00 


.72 


.56 


.22 


.008 


.98 


.87 


E 


3 


2 


2i.4i, 


2.14 


1.09 


3.08 


1.36 


1.27 


.77 


.21 


.40 


1.73 


.58 


F 


3 for 8 wks. 

2 for 12 wks. 

4 


} 

2 


Under 
school 


2.50 


.51 


1.94 


.76 


.65 


.80 


.11 


.000 


.84 


.47 


G 






age 


1.73 


.48 


1.82 


.64 


1.25 


.75 




.36 


.69 


.31 


H 


2 


1 


4h 


1.29 


.54 


.83 


.50 


.74 


.60 


.000 


.187 


.07 


.36 


I 


2 


2 


8,11, 


1.38 


.89 


1.79 


1.23 


.71 


.90 


.17 


.09 


.30 


.50 


J 


2 
2 




3-12, 14, 


1.01 


.52 


.91 


.38 


.32 


.43 


.000 


.10 


.26 


.65 


K 






15 


1.88 


1.08 


1.98 


1.75 


1.08 


1.12 


.33 


.19 


1,08 


.65 


L 


2 






.97 


.39 


.63 


.43 


.49 


.42 


.09 


.11 


.38 


.82 


M 


2 


1 


9 mos. 


Data 


note 


omple 


teeno 


ugh t 


use. 










N 


5 


1 


6 


2.56 


1.17 


2.41 


1.53 


1.31 


.82 


.10 


.43 


.97 


.68 



Percentage spent for each food material 



s 

s 

2 


is 


si 

|3 


z 

M 

Si 

•< 


H 


8 


> 

< 

a 


< 
8 




I 
[ii 

o 
w 

> 


to 

H 
O 

z 


i2 

■< 




o 










per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 
cent 


per 

cent 


A 


3 






10.0 


8.3 


29.7 


9.5 


17.0 


8.0 


0.009 


1.5 


7 


6.7 


B 


2 


1 


Under 1 \t 


Left 


at the 


end 


of the 


third 


week 










C 


2 






10.0 


5.5 


29.9 


17.3 


6.0 


10.0 


0.007 


1.0 


14.9 


3,2 


D 


2 


2 


7,13, 


16.5 


6.3 


21.5 


9.0 


12.4 


7.0 


2.0 


0.001 


12.3 


10.0 


E 


3 


2 


2i 4i 


17.0 


8.0 


24.0 


10.0 


10.0 


6.0 


1.7 


3.2 


13.0 


4.6 


F 


2 for 12 wks. 

3 for 8 wks. 

4 


} 

2 


Under 
school 


29.0 


5.95 


22.55 


7.64 


8.9 


9.29 


1.3 




9.82 


5.46 


G 






age 


21.6 


5.9 


22.7 


15.6 


7.1 


9.4 




4,5 


8.6 


3.8 


H 


2 


1 


4k 


24.5 


10.3 


15.7 


14.1 


9.4 


11.4 




3.5 


1.3 


6.8 


I 


2 


2 


8,11, 


17.0 


11.0 


22.0 


8.8 


15.0 


11.3 


2.0 


1.1 


3.7 


6.0 


J 


2 






22.0 


11.0 


19.0 


7.0 


8.0 


9.0 




0.1 


5.0 


14.0 


K 


2 


3 


12, 14, 15, 


16.9 


9.7 


17.8 


9.7 


15.7 


10.7 


2.9 


1.6 


9.7 


5.8 


L 


2 






20.4 


8.3 


13.3 


10.2 


9.1 


8.7 


1.9 


2.2 


7.9 


17.2 


M 


2 


1 


9 mos. 


Data 


not c 


omple 


teeno 


ugh t 


ouse 










N 


5 


1 


6 


21.3 


9.8 


20.1 


10.8 


12.8 


6.8 


0.97 


3.6 


8.1 


5.7 



EDITORIAL 

The Cost of Living and the Present Crisis. A few weeks ago the 
cost of liWng was occupying a large part of the attention of the house- 
keeper. How to spend less money and still have adequate food, shel- 
ter, and clothing, and how to best distribute the amount to be spent 
were her serious problems. In a moment her whole point of view 
changed. The question today is not the saving of money but the con- 
servation of resources. It is ahke necessary for the rich and the poor. 
If one has enough money it is of comparatively Uttle account how many 
purchases be made of luxuries or of materials of which there is a plenti- 
ful supply, but it is a very important matter that only the most neces- 
sary amounts be bought of materials of which there •vnoU probably be 
a shortage. It is as important for the nchest person in the country 
to save waste in wheat, in potatoes, and in similar food materials as it 
is for the p)oorest. 

There has perhaps never been so great an opportunity for the teacher 
of home economics to gain a hearing; there has never been a time when 
it is so inexcusable for her in class room work to use materials care- 
lessly or wastefully. No amount of precept will take the place of prac- 
tice. Attention even to minor details of saving must be hers. 

If the pubUc school teacher can impress upon her school children 
that the saving of material is a service to the country, and that it is just 
as important as the production of more material, she may be able not 
only to help in the present crisis but perhaps become a large factor in 
inculcating habits of thrift that will be of far greater value tlian any 
manipukition of materials the children might learn. 

Not only the teacher of food but the teacher of sewing has this oppor- 
tunity. If woolen materials are to be short this gives reason for em- 
phasizing the repair and the care of such materials. 

It is in these simple and humble ways quite as much as in the more 
spectacular ones that real service may be given. In the President's 
call for service to dilTerent groups of j^eople perhaps none is niore needed 
than that to the housewife — "Elimmate Waste." 



236 



1917] EDITORIAL 237 

Conservation of Effort. While we are planning carefully the 
conser\'ation of food and other materials we should be at least equally 
careful to conserve effort. With the desire on the part of everj-one 
to contribute in every' possiljle way to the nation's need there is danger 
of useless duplication of effort, of lack of cooperation, of fruitless repe- 
tion of work that has already been done, and possibly of unwise compe- 
tition. While it is true that many may be reached Ijy one type of 
organization that would not be touched by another, there should be 
careful cooperation, not working at cross purposes. 

In some of the public school systems the good suggestion has been 
made that a series of leaflets on consers^ation of food be prepared and 
distributed to the homes through the children. In some places teachers 
already over-worked are asked to prepare such circulars. Might it not 
be possible to take the Food Thrift series of articles sent out by the 
Department of Agriculture and use these, with such slight adaptation 
as would be necessary, rather than to undertake to prepare in a limited 
amount of time a wholly new series? Prepared by experts, with au- 
thoritative sources of information directly at hand, these presumably 
will be better than those prepared in haste, without such resources. 
The letters sent out by the Children's Bureau might also well be used. 

A New Committee of the Association. It seems appropriate that 
the American Home Economics Association should have followed up 
the ofifer of its services to the government by the appointment, through 
the Council, of an Emergency Committee to act in an advisory capacity 
to any one needing help in our special field. 

Miss Isabel Ely Lord has consented to act as chairman, wdth Mrs. 
Annie Nathan Meyer, now chairman of the Home Economics Commit- 
tee of the National Special Aid Society, as vice-chairman. The mem- 
bers of the committee have been chosen to represent different sections 
of the countr}^ with the power to form local committees as needed. 

An office of information in New York should help to show the many 
women not now reached in other ways, and to emphasize over again 
to others, how they may help the nation by wiser methods of adminis- 
tration in their own homes. The committee will plan to cooperate 
with the Department of Agriculture and with Mr. Hoover, the newly 
appointed Food Commissioner. 

Members of the Committee: Isabel Ely Lord, Chairman; Mrs. Annie 
Nathan Meyer, Vice-chairman; Sarah Louise Arnold, Massachusetts; 
Edith Baer, Pennsylvania; Josephine T. Berry, Minnesota; Isabel 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Be\der, Illinois; Charlotte Ebbets, California; Charlotte Ullrich, Ohio; 
Martha Van Rensselaer, New York; Mary Gearing, Texas; Caroline 
L. Hunt, Washington, D. C; Abby L. Marlatt, Wisconsin; Effie Raitt, 
Washington; Mary E. Sweeney, Kentucky; May B. Van Arsdale, New 
York City; Louise Stanley, Missouri; Agnes Harris, Florida; Mrs. Hen- 
rietta Calvin, Washington, D. C. 

Ex-officio members: Catherine J. MacE^y, President; Mrs. Alice P. 
Norton, Secretary. 

NOTICES 

To the Members of the Institution Section of the American Home Eco- 
nomics Association: 

Owing to the very unsettled conditions throughout the country at 
present, it has been decided by the Executive Committee of the Insti- 
tution Section not to attempt to hold their meetings at Lake Placid 
Club, June 16 to 19, 1917. 

The Committee regrets the necessity for taking this action, for the 
response has been a very hearty one, both from members, and others 
whom we have asked to take part in the program. The session as 
planned promised to be a very interesting one, but our hope is to pre- 
sent the subjects at another year's meeting. 

The Committee has expressed heartiest appreciation of the invitation 
which had been extended by Mr. and Mrs. Dewey to meet at Lake 
Placid Club this year. 

We shall appreciate it if the different members will pass on this word 
of the cancelled meeting to institution workers whom they may know. 

Since the above letter was sent to different members of the Institution 
Section, the Committee finds that there will be two or tliree opportuni- 
ties for helpful conferences for institution workers during the year. 
An endeavor will be made in the early part of the sumnier session at 
Teachers College to have a day or two given over to tiilks and round- 
tablcs on certain problems of interest to institution workers. It is 
possible that certain speakers may be obtained then who were scheduled 
for the Lake Placid Meeting. Also, a special program on lunch-room 
management is being arranged for a session at the General Meeting 
of the American Home Economics Association in August. 

Another plan is under consideration, — that of having a conference of 
special interest to dietitians, as definite dietitian organizations have been 
formed in Boston, Chicago, New York and Philadelphia. 



1917] NOTICES 239 

With some of these special conferences in mind, we feel that many 
of the institution members who regret the postponement of the meet- 
ing this year will be able to avail themselves of these conference 
opportunities. 

Emma H. Gunther, 
Chairman of the Institution Section. 



The meeting of the National Education Association is to be held 
July 7-14 in Portland, Oregon. 

The American Home Economics Association will hold a session on 
either July 9 or 10, in connection with the meeting of the National Edu- 
cation Association. Miss Ava B. Milam, Oregon Agricultural College, 
Corvallis, Oregon, is chairman of the program committee. The other 
members of the committee are Mrs. Ellen Dabney, Miss Alice Raven- 
hill, Miss Lillian Tingle, Mrs. Edna Robbins, and Mrs. Mary Schenck 
Woolman. Suggestions for the program will be welcomed. 

On July 6 and 7, just preceding the N. E. A., there will be a con- 
ference of supervisors in home economics in city public schools. Mrs. 
Calvin is in charge of the program and asks for suggestions as to topics 
of greatest interest, and as to difRculties encountered by those organiz- 
ing and administrating home economics departments. 

The headquarters for the Association and the Conference will be the 
Seward Hotel. This has a rate of $4 per day for two rooms with bath 
between, or $6 for the two rooms if occupied by three people. Other 
rooms without bath but with hot and cold running water can be se- 
cured at a less rate. 

The railroad rates have been fixed at $55 round trip from Missouri 
River points, and $67.50 from Chicago. 



The National Conference of Charities and Corrections will be held 
in Pittsburgh, Pa., June 6-13. A preliminary program may be obtained 
from the headquarters of the Conference, 315 Plymouth Court, Chicago. 
An unusually large number of the meetings will be of especial interest 
to those who are working for the home. 



Response has been received from a number of applicants to the offer 
of the Journal in the April issue to act as a mediator between those 



240 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

desiring summer positions and those desiring teachers. The letters 
are on file in the office at Baltimore and will be forwarded to any de- 
partments who wish to secure such services. 



The following household account books have come to the attention 
of the Committee on Budgets since the Ust was published in the October, 
1916, number of the Journal, and they are now ofifered as a supple- 
mentary Ust. 

The Personal Account Book, National Board, Y. W. C. A., 600 Lex- 
ington Avenue, New York City, $0.10. 

The Family Expense Book, Stewart & Kidd, Cincinnati, Ohio, $0.35. 

How Much Can We Save, E. R. Thoma, 01>Tnpia High School, 
01>Tnpia, Washington, $1. 

The Economizer-Household Account Book, Otto A. Jeschien. Smith 
Bros., 472 13th Street, Oakland, Cahfomia. 

Thrift Through Household Accounting. Pubhshed for Ellen H. 
Richards Home Economics Fund American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Maryland, $0.15. Fifty or more 
copies, ten cents each. 

Lantern sUdes of some fifteeen household account books have been 
prepared by the Committee on Budgets and can be purchased through 
the Journal at 40 cents each; they will be found useful in class dis- 
cussions and lecture work, as the account forms can thus be thrown 
upon the screen large enough for an audience to consider. 

The Committee will be interested to have information in regard to 
other account books available. Please communicate with the chair- 
man, Benjamin R. Andrews, Teachers College, New York City. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
JoLTtNAL OF HoME ECONOMICS if the Journal price is listed. 



Control of Hunger in Health and in Disease. 
By Anton J. Carlson. Chicago: Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press, 1916. Pp. 
319. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, 
$2.14. 
The teacher of dietetics is constantly 
hampered by the fact that this is a subject 
Uf)on which almost every one feels himself 
an authority to some extent at least. Few 
realize how widely at variance are "the 
dictates of e.Tperience" as promulgated in 
different sections of the countr>' or by differ- 
ent p)ersons in the same section; only a 
long experience in vain efforts at reconciling 
dietetic maxims reveals the disorganized 
state of the subject, even in scientific cir- 
cles. One does indeed begin to feel that 
"mebbe it 'd be better, not to know so 
many things, than to know so many things 
that ain't so." Meanwhile the very men 
who, it would seem, should have the largest 
say in dietetics, — the physiologists and 
physiological chemists — are for the most 
part maintaining a discreet silence concern- 
ing many critical points. 

Here is a book which deals, in thoroughly 
scientific fashion, with such questions as the 
following : 

Are both hunger and appetite necessary to 
maintain proper nourishment of the body? 
Does either augment, or decrease, or occur 
independently of the other? Does the 
drinking of water increase or diminish 
appetite? hunger? Does it matter (in 
this regard) whether the water is cold or 
warm? Can alcoholic beverages inhibit 
hunger and at the same time increase appe- 
tite? WTiat is the effect of acid, of alkaline 
reaction of foods, upon these two physio- 
logical phenomena? Is "appetite juice" 
really necessary to normal nutrition? Is 



occasional starvation, or fasting, a beneficial 
hygienic measure, after all? How often 
should an infant be fed? What is the rela- 
tion of hunger contractions to digestion 
contractions of the stomach? Is there such 
a thing as hyperacidity of the gastric juice? 
Is there any justification for the medical 
administration of pepsin? Are bitter tonics 
ever beneficial? What is the cause of the 
excessive hunger of pancreatic diabetes? of 
some hyperaemic conditions of the skin 
(mange in dogs)? What is the cause for 
lack of desire to eat, in fevers, acute infec- 
tions, gastritis cases? 

It is true that not always can categorical 
answers be given to such questions as the 
above. Yet it is to this sort of book, — the 
book whose author has critically sifted the 
available evidence, — that those of us turn, 
who find ourselves compelled, upon occa- 
sion, to give categorical answers to impos- 
sible questions from a general audience. 

Professor Carlson and his associates and 
students at the University of Chicago have 
for several years worked upon various de- 
tails and aspects of the questions, what is 
the hunger mechanism, how may it be 
controlled, what is the relation of himger 
to appetite? They have made many ob- 
ser\'ations and done much experimental 
work with an "Alexis St. Martin the Second," 
a Bohemian, who twenty years ago swallowed 
caustic soda, and subsequently suffered a 
closure of the esophagus such that he has 
since that time taken all food and drink 
through a gastric fistula. They have also 
very largely used the balloon method of 
stud>-ing stomach contractions; animals, nor- 
mal men, men suffering from various dis- 
eased conditions, infants, have swallowed 
these balloons, and tracings have been re- 

241 



242 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May- 



corded on revolving drums, showing activi- 
ties of the stomach. 

Doubtless it is true, that many of the 
points here discussed, will remain subjects 
of more or less controversy for some time 
to come. Yet the beginner in physiology 
who goes through the book with one finger 
between the pages of a medical dictionary, 
and the critical reader alike, can hardly 
fail to be impressed with the ingeniously 
planned, patiently collected, carefully cor- 
related mass of experimental evidence pre- 
sented in Dr. Carlson's book. 

Minna C. Denton. 

Food and Health. An elementary text book 
of home making. By Helen Kinne and 
Anna IVI. Cooley. New York: The 
Macmillan Company, 1916, pp. 312. 
$.65. By mail of the Journal, $.75. 

A unique and most interesting book for 
use in elementary schools, especially in rural 
communities. The keynote is the relation 
of the child to the home, the relation of the 
school to the community, the general plan 
of the book being set forth in the opening 
sentence: "This is a story of the way in 
which the mothers and fathers, the teachers 
and pupils, and their friends in the township 
work together to make the broad valley in 
which they live truly a Pleasant Valley." 

The six chapters of the book are: 

1. /Vn introductory chapter dealing with 
the functions of food expressed in simple 
language with illustrations that country 
children will understand. 

2. Luncheon at school, including the con- 
sideration of the lunch box brought from 
home and the possibility of the preparation 
of food at school. Suggestions are given for 
simple equipment, making possible the serv- 
ing of a hot dish each day, and for the man- 
agement of a "lunch club" for that purpose. 

Chapters 3, 4, and 5 deal with the home 
meals, supper, breakfast, and dinner. These 
lessons arc planned for execution in the home 
rather than in the school, arc full of excellent 
information regarding the pnxiuction, selec- 
tion, cooking, serving, and eating of the 
foods that arc common and [)kntiful on the 
farm and in small towns. Convenience in 
arrangement of kitchen, good methods in 



housework, labor saving devices, correct 
ideas of sanitation are also dwelt upon. 

Chapter 6, entitled "Other Facts about 
Food" includes a study of 100 calorie portions 
and the bujing and selling of foods. Sug- 
gestions are made for ways in which boys and 
girls on the farm may earn money and the 
work of canning clubs is described. 

"Pages from a student's note book" in the 
back of the book show the possibilities in the 
use of the text and will be helpful to the in- 
experienced teacher as well as to the student. 

The fact that the book is intended for use 
in schools where there is no equipment for 
cooking and where food work must be given 
as a part of the general program and not as 
a special subject, will make it a welcome 
addition to text books on domestic science. 

It will be useful in normal schools where 
teachers of rural schools are being trained 
and will also be very suggestive to any 
teacher of elementary food work and to gen- 
eral grade teachers who are interested in 
unifying the interests of the school and the 
home. 

Helen M. Day, 
Head of Dept. of Domestic Economy, Bradley 

Polytechnic Institute, Peoria, III. 

The New Interior. By Hazel H. .^X)LER. 
New York: Century Company, 1916, pp. 
315. $3.00. By mail of the Journal, 
$3.17. 

Upon no theme has there been greater 
need of fresh and vigorous writing than upon 
the subject of interior decoration. It is 
with rare expectation, therefore, that one 
picks up a copy of The New Interir.r by 
Hazel ,\dler, and with a slight sense of un- 
fulfillment that one lays it down. Perhaps 
the title of the book and the daring cover 
lead one to exjjcct too much, to anticipate 
some original or advanced idea; whereas the 
actual content of the book is but a fresh, 
free handling of the old subject. 

The New Interior is distinctly a voice 
from the craftsman world. It deals essen- 
tially with the decorative idea; is pictorial 
and imaginative in its tone rather than prac- 
tical. The view point is that of the artist 
whose interest lies in creating cfTccls, rather 
than that of the homcmakcr who must live 



1917] 



BOOKS A>n) LITERATURE 



243 



with them. Far from being a defect, this 
waiving of practical discussion has the ad- 
vantage of keeping the mind focused on the 
ideas presented, rather than on the ways 
and means whereby they will be carried out. 
One is thereby at liberty to follow the suc- 
cession of interior pictures which the writer 
unfolds in her description. This exercise 
stimulates the imagination and produces a 
lively sense of resourcefulness which is more 
valuable to the lajTnan than a whole book- 
ful of fi.xed directions. 

The main impression of the book is that of 
color. One comes out of its perusal fairly 
reeking with color. It is here that the mod- 
em note is most distinctly felt. The \ivid 
hues, the violent contrasts, and the startling 
combinations of color make one long to 
draw a veil over the whole arrangement. 
While a free use of highly keyed untradi- 
tional harmonies is very refreshing and is 
certainly expressive of the times, it must 
be remembered that this phase represents 
the extreme swing of the pendulum and that 
we have yet tocomeback toequilibrium. The 
inserted color chart, which sets forth a theory 
of color based upon its analogy to the musi- 
cal scale, is interesting as an intellectual idea 
and may form the basis for an illuminating 
variety of experiments; but like most for- 
mulae, it is chiefly of value to those who 
know enough to get along without it. 

In a few places the book sags into trivial- 
ity, — as, for instance, in Chapter V entitled 
"The Emancipation of the Dinnertable." 
After an e.xcellent interpretation of what the 
dining room should be "in action" and "in 
repose," one is faced with certain illustra- 
tions that make one wonder whether, after 
all, he cares to be emancipated. While, of 
course, such pictures as those opposite page 
108 are to be taken suggestively, rather than 
literally, still the arrangements there de- 
picted hav-e a feminine, trippy, and unsub- 
stantial air that would give the very shivers 
to a life-size man. The centerpieces are too 
dominating and the whole layout is too arti- 
ficial and dressed up. 

The subject described in Chapter XIV, 
"The Modem Church Interior," is in many 
ways a foreign note. The idea of a modem 
church erected by the artisans of a commun- 



ity is educative as an experiment; but as a 
basis for future progress it is absolutely 
sterile, because it ignores the fundamental 
economic conditions of the day. 

The most forceful traits of the book are 
the writer's interpretative ability; the ability 
to analyze an interior situation and give it 
meaning or idea; and the natural way in 
which the principles of decoration are woven 
throughout the text wherever needed. 

Mrs. Adler's style of writing is in no way 
remarkable. It is the mere interest of the 
subject matter that carries it. The recital 
of a scries of arts and crafts accomplishments, 
though a natural tribute of talent to talent, 
starts the book off heavily and gives it a 
slight commercial smack. The impression 
of the book is rather choppy, and in places 
shoppy, due to the manner in which the 
material is presented. 

In general the text is permeated by an 
undertone of buoyancj' and healthy good 
sense that is very cleansing. One catches 
therein the virility of the day without its 
v-ulgarity. Whatever may be its lasting 
value. The New Interior is for the moment 
as welcome as a breath of fresh air blowing 
away the stale odor of tradition. 

Helen Binkerd Young, Architect, 
Assistant Professor of Home Economics, Cor- 
nell University. 

Home Labor-Saving Devices. By Rhea 
Clarke Scott. Philadelphia, Pa.: J. B. 
Lippincott Company, 1916, pp. 100. 
$1.00. 

The aims of Miss Scott's book as stated 
in the preface are "to increase efiBciency in 
the farm home, and to satisfy the growing 
demand for useful information in the coun- 
try schools." These aims are admirable in 
themselves and the book describes simply 
and clearly a number of useful and ingenious 
contrivances which any woman or girl who 
can use a saw and drive a nail can make. 
The book is of convenient size and will be a 
useful hand-book. It will be interesting to 
learn from those who have made actual use 
of these appliances whether they prove to 
meet the exacting test of being "worth 
while." 



244 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Letters to a Young Housekeeper. By Jane Prince. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Company, 

1917, pp. 167. $1.35. By mail of the Journal, $1.43. 
Opportunities for Women in Domestic Science. By Marie Francke. Philadelphia, Pa.: 

Association of Collegiate Alumnae, 1916, pp. 64. Paper $.50. Apply to Mrs. Gertrude 

Martin, 934 Stewart Ave., Ithaca, N. Y. 
The Prevention of Disease. By Kenelm Winslow. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company, 

1916, pp. 348. $1.75. By mail of the Journal, $1.87. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The follo%ving Government pamphlets may be obtained from the Editor and Chief of the 
Division of Publications, U. S. Dept. of Agr., Washington, D. C, free; or from the Depart- 
ment under which they are issued. 
Farmers' Mutual Fire Insurance. By V. N. Dalgren. Separate from Yearbook of Dept. 

of Agr., 1916, no. 697, pp. 13. 
A Federated Cooperative Cheese Mamifcu:turing and Marketing Association. By Hector 

Macpherson and W. H. Kerr. Separate from Yearbook of Dept. of Agr., 1916 No. 699, 

pp. 13. 
Ho-iV to Select Foods. I. What the Body Needs. By Caro'ine L. Hunt and Helen W. .\twater. 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 808, March 1917, pp. 14. 
Turnips, Beets and Other Succulent Roots, and Their Use as Food. By C. F. Langworthy. 

Fanners' Bulletin No. 503, March 6, 1917, pp. 19. 
Control of Pollution of Streams. By Earle B. Phelps. U. S. Public Health SerWce Reprint 

No. 384, Jan. 26, 1917, pp. 8. 
Mental Status of Rural School Children. By E. H. Mullan and others. U. S. Public Health 

Service Reprint No 377, Nov. 17, 1916, pp. 30. 
Educative atid Economic Possibilities of School-Directed Home Gardening in Richmond, Ind. 

By J. L. Randall. Bureau of Education Bulletin, 1917, No. 6, pp. 25. 
Maternal Mortality from Conditions Connected with Childbirth. By Grace L. Meigs. Chil- 

drens' Bureau, Miscellaneous Series No. 6, Bureau Pub. No. 19, pp. 66. 

The following are issued by the publishers listed. 

The Care of the Baby. Prepared by a Committee of the Amer. .\ssn. for the Study and 
Prevention of Infant Mortality. Ext. Div. of Univ. of Minnesota -Agr. Ext. Bui. No. 
62 (Minnesota Farmers' Library), Oct. 1916, pp. 8. 

House Equipment for Running Water. By J. L. Mowry. Minnesota Farmers' Librar>- Hul. 
No. 61, Aug. 1916, pp. 8. 

Inexpensive Foods. Corn Meal. By Bessie R. Murphy. Home Economics Circular No. 6, 
March, 1917, pp. 4. Also Rice for Breakfast, Dinner and Supper. By Bessie R. Mur- 
phy. Home Economics Circular No. 5, Feb. 1917, pp. 6. Bureau of Farm Develop- 
ment, Business Men's Club Chamber of Commerce, Memphis, Tcnn. 

Child Hygiene. By Kansas State Board of Health, Division of Child Hygiene, Topeka, 
Kans. Vol. xii, .\o. 6, June, 1916, pp. 376^20. 

Hou- to Can Fruits, Vegetables and .Meats. By New Housekeeping Department of the Ladies 
Home Journal. Philarlclphia: Curtis Publishing Co., cl916, pp.23. $0.15. 



191 7 J BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 245 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Foods A>fD CookI';ry 

The Salicylic Acid Reaction of Beans. H. C. Brill, Philippine Jour. Set., Sect. A, 11 
(1916), no. 2, pp. 81-89. 

Canned Sea Urchin. F. T. Shutt, Canada Expt. Farms Rpts. 1915, pp. 149, 150. 

Annual Report of the Dairy and Food Commissioner of \'irginia. B. L. Purcell, Ann. 
Rpt. Dairy and Food Comr. Va. [8], (1915-16), pp. 20 + 50 + 63 + 55 + 63. 

Report of the Dairy and Food Commissioner for the Year 1914. B. L. Purcell, Ann. 
Rpt. Dairy and Food Comr. Va. [7], (1914-15), pp. 64. 

[South Dakota Food and Drug Law] Vermilion, S. Dak.: Sl^le, 1916, pp. 15. 

A Polariscopic Determination of Sugar in "Condensed Milk." R. O. Brooks, Jour. 
Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1023, 1024. 

The Determination and Distribution of Moisture in Bread. H. L. Wcssling, Jour. 
Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 1021-1024. 

Factory Control in the Manufacture of Cornstarch and Corn Sirup. A. P. Bryant, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 10, pp. 930-932. 

The Chemical Control of Gelatin Manufacture. J. R. Powell, Jour. Indus, and Engin. 
Chem., 8 (1916), no. 10, pp. 932, 933. 

Flour Milling Problems. Harry Snyder, Jour. Indus, atid Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 
10, pp. 934-940. 

A Comparison of Methods for the Determination of Casein in Milk. C. B. Hersey, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 4, pp. 335, 336. 

The Casein of Goats' Milk. A. \V. Bosworth and L. L. \'an Slyke, Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 
(1916), no. 3, pp. 173-175. 

The Soluble and Insoluble Compounds of Goats' Milk. A. W. Bosworth and L. L. 
VanSlyke, Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), no. 3, pp. 177-185. 

A Comparison of the Composition of Cow's Milk, Goats' Milk, and Human Milk. A. W. 
Bosworth and L. L. VanSlyke, Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), no. 3, pp. 187-189. 

Chemical Changes in the Souring of Milk. L. L. VanSlyke and A. W. Bosworth, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), no. 3, pp. 191-202. 

The Production of Sweet-orange Oil and a New Machine for Peeling Citrus Fruits. Pos- 
sibility of the Commercial Production of Sweet-orange Oil from Waste Oranges. S. C. 
Hood and G. A. Russell, U. S. Depl. Agr. Bui. 399 (1916), pp. 19, figs. 10. 

The Soy Bean, with Special Reference to Its Utilization for Oil, Cake, and Other Prod- 
ucts. C. V. Piper and W. J. Morse, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 439 (1916), pp. 20, figs. 3. 

The Chemical Composition of American Graf)es Grown in the Central and Eastern 
States. \Vm. B. Alwood, et al., U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 452 (1916), pp. 20. 

The Drying for Milling Purposes of Damp and Garlicky Wheat. J. H. Cox, U. S. Dept. 
Agr. Bid. 455 (1916), pp. 11, figs. 3. 

The Food Value and Uses of Poultry. Helen W. Atwater, U. S. Depl. Agr. Bui. 467 
(1916), pp. 29, figs. 2. 

Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. A. D. Holmes and H. L. Lang, U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 469 (1916), pp. 27. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

The Vegetarian Diet in the Light of our Present Knowledge of Nutrition. E. V. McCol- 
lum, N. Simmonds, and W. Pitz, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 3, pp. 333-360, pi. 1, 
figs. 19. 



246 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

A Photographic Method for Measuring the Surface Area of the Human Body. F. G. 
Benedict. Atner. Jour. Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 3, pp. 275-291, figs. 5. 

The Relationship Between Body Surface and Heat Production Especially During Pro- 
longed Fasting. F. G. Benedict, Amcr. Jour. Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 3, pp. 292-308. 

The Distribution in Plants of the Fat-Soluble A, the Dietary Essential of Butter Fat. 
E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, and W. Pitz, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 3, pp. 361- 
375, pi. 1, figs. 11. 

The Relation of the Unidentified Dietary Factors, the Fat-Soluble A, and Water-soluble 
B, of the Diet to the Growth-promoting Properties of Milk. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, 
and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 33-43, figs. 6. 

Studies on Experimental Scurvy in Guinea-Pigs. Leila Jackson and J. J. Moore, Jour. 
Infect. Diseases, 10 (1916), no. 3, pp. 478-510, figs. 14. 

Studies on the Digestibility of the Grain Sorghums. C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes, 
U. S. Depl. Agr. Bui. 470 (1916), pp. 31. 

The Use of Energy Values in the Computation of Rations for Farm Animals. H. P. 
Armsby, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 459 (1916), pp. 31. 

Dietary Deficiency as the Etiological Factor in Pellagra. E. B. V^edder, Arch. Int. Med., 
18 (1916), no. 2, pp. 137-172. 

The Influence of Diet on the Development and Health of the Teeth. J. I. Durand, 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 67 (1916), no. 8, pp. 564-565. 

Effect of Autolysis upon Muscle Creatin. R. Hoagland and C. N. McBryde, U. S. 
Depl. Agr., Jour. Agr. Research, 6 (1916), no. 14, pp. 535 547. 

The Diet of Children After Infancy. J. H. M. Knox, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 67 (1916), 
no. 6, pp. 432-435. 

The Normal Gastric Secretion. M. E. Rehfuss, Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 55 (1916), no. 
6, pp. 461-470. 

The Uric Acid Solvent Power of Normal Urine. H. D. Haskins, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 
(1916), no. I, pp. 205-215. 

Creatin in Human Muscle. W. Denis, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), no. 2, pp. 379-386. 

Relative Toxicity of Substances Found in Foods. A. N. Cook and Sylvanna Elliott, 
Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), No. 6, pp. 503, 504. 

The Dietary of the Field Laborer in Spain. Bol. Agr. Tec. y Econ., 8 (1916), No. 86, pp. 
141-151; abs. in E.^pt. Sta. Record, 35 (1916), No. 5, p. 471. 

, .. A Week's Menu for an Average Filipino Family. Josefa Herrara, Philippine Craftsman, 
4'(1916), No. 8, pp. 514-517. 

A Study on Food and the Fuel Value of the Dietary at the New York City Municipal 
Sanatorium. R. J. Wilson and W. L. Rathbun, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 66 (1916), No. 23, 
pp. 1760-1765. 

Miscellaneous 

Homemade Fircless Cookers and Their Use. U. S. Dept. Agr. Farmers' Bui. 771 (1916), 
pp. 16, figs. 5. 

Sea Island Cotton. W. A. Orton, U. S. Depl. Agr. Farmers' Bui. 787, (1916), pp. 30, figs. 

13. 

Convict Labor for Road Work. J. E. Pcnnypackcr, II. S. Fairbank, and W. F. Draper, 
U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 414 (1916), pp. 218, pis. 14, figs. 10. 

The Cold School Lunch. Bab Bell, Univ. Missouri, Col. Agr. Ext. Scrv. Circ. 10 (1916), 
pp. 8, figs. 3. 

[Care of the Baby] E. F. Ladd and .Mma K. Johnson, North Dakota Sta. Spec. Bui. 4 (1916), 
no. 5, pp. 97-132, figs. 8. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



An International Lectureship. The 
International Committee on Home Econo- 
mics Teaching of the A. II. E. A. have 
secured Miss Alice Ravenhill as a visiting 
lecturer on home economics, the first 
exchange teacher or lecturer in this field. 
The project was approved at the meeting 
of the Council held in Washington in No- 
vember. 

The plan was to pro\-ide in a number of 
co6p)erating institutions a series of special 
lectures, given by a speaker of wide author- 
ity, and treating some of the larger prob- 
lems of the home and its management, and 
of education for housekeeping and home- 
making, as well as the physical development 
in childhood and adolescence, with other 
essential factors in human efiiciency. 

Miss Ravenhill, long one of the leaders 
in the English home economics movement, 
is best known to American educators as the 
author of the comprehensive and authorita- 
tive Report on Domestic Science Teaching 
in the United States, made to the English 
Board of Education; author of similar 
reports on the teaching of home economics 
in European countries, and of several 
textbooks. She was long an inspector of 
domestic science teaching in England, and 
lecturer on hygiene and household economics 
in Kings College for Women, London Uni- 
versity; late member of Advisory Board 
of Women's Institutes, Province of British 
Columbia; lecturer at Universities of 
Washington, Utah, Nebraska, and Texas, 
State Colleges of Utah, and Oregon, and 
other American institutions. 

Miss Ravenhill began her lectures at 
the University of Utah January 24, from 
there going to the Homemakers' Confer- 
ences organized by the Utah State Agri- 



cuUtural Colleges at Ogden and Logan. She 
has spent a week at the University of 
Nebraska lecturing in the Departments 
of Sociology and Household Economics. 
She also spent a week at the University of 
Texas and one at the Homemakers' Con- 
ference at Fort Worth. She has visited 
Kansas Agricultural College and the Uni- 
versity of Kansas. On March 19 she 
spoke in Chicago at Lewis Institute on her 
way to Cleveland, New York, and Boston, 
expecting to return to Iowa by April 1. 

Her subjects are: "Home Economics in 
the Twentieth Century;" (1) "Scope of 
the Subject and its Actual Influence on 
Human Progress." (2) "Its Relation to 
EC5ciency — Indi\'idual, Domestic, Economic 
and Industrial;" (3) "General Teaching 
Methods — Constructive Criticisms;" (4) "Its 
Relation to the Home — Structure, Equip- 
ment, General Fitness;" (5) "Relation to the 
Home — the Inmates, Occupations and Re- 
creations." 

These subjects are announced tentatively 
and there may be substituted other topics 
such as — the Place and Purpose of Family 
Life; Phases of Growth, their Needs, Signi- 
ficance and Development; Modern Thrift 
in Its Bearing on the Individual and 
Households; Factors in Human Efiiciency. 

The terms are for one week, $100 and 
expenses — estimates not to exceed $150 — 
$175 in full; for one day, providing two 
lectures, where itinerary permits, $50 in- 
cluding expenses; other times at proportion- 
ate rates. Immediate correspondence from 
all interested is requested, stating the con- 
ditions which the local program and budget 
suggest as to cooperation in these lectures. 

Please correspond with Prof. B. R. 
Andrews, Teachers College, New York City. 



247 



248 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



The Northwest Texas Home Econom- 
ics Convention arranged by the extension 
department of the University of Texas and 
held in Fort Worth under the auspices of 
the Fort Worth Record and the women's 
organizations of Fort Worth, Februar>' 19 
to 24, included several notable speakers. 

On the first day, Home Economics Week, 
from the Newspaper Point of View, from 
the Homemakers', the Merchants', and the 
University Point of View, was discussed by 
W. H. Bagley, general manager of the 
Fort Worth Record, by Mrs. Saunders, and 
by Miss Mary Gearing, of the University of 
Te.xas. 

Mr. Frederick C. Howe, commissioner of 
immigration at Ellis Island, gave the first 
of a series of lectures on the topics: "Woman 
and the City of Tomorrow;" "The Immi- 
grant in Relation to America;" "The 
Education of Tomorrow — A Social Problem;" 
"The City and Its Homes;" and "Denmark, 
the Cooperative Commonwealth." 

Miss Alice Ravenhill spoke on "The 
Foundation of Human Efficiency, Nature 
and Nurture," and during the week dis- 
cussed other problems of efficiency. 

Mr. Stroughton Holbom of Oxford Col- 
lege, England, gave several lectures on art: 
"The Need of Art in Daily Life;" ".\rt and 
Citizenship;'" "The Houses of the People;" 
"The Relation of Beauty to Goodness and 
Truth;" "Personal Ornament and Dress, 
the Modern Failure;" and led a discussion 
of "The Artistic Arrangement of Our 
Houses." 

Miss Marj- Gearing treated "The Budget 
as a Means of Reducing the Cost of Living," 
and conducted a round table on "Some 
Household Leaks and How to .\vert Them." 

Discussions and demonstrations on differ- 
ent phases of the cost of li\nng were given 
by Miss Blodgett and Miss Lawrence of the 
extension department of the University 
of Texas. "The Peanut as a Cheap Pala- 
table Food," "The Stock Pot and Other 
Soups as a Means of Reducing the Cost of 
Food," and "Methods of Busing as a 
Means of Reducing the Cost of Foods," 



were some of the topics; while Mr. Golax 
spoke on "Some Factors Influencing the 
Cost of Foods in Texas." A bread making 
demonstration by Miss Lawrence was 
followed by a round table on "The Price 
of Bread, Homemade vs. Baker's" led by a 
local baker and Miss Blodgett. 

Mrs. Pennybacker gave an evening lec- 
ture on "Some Interesting People I have 
Known" and an afternoon talk on "VNTio 
Closes the Door— Youth or Old Age?" 

The last day was devoted to municipal 
problems with a discussion of "Municipal 
Markets" by Dr. Cockrell; "Municipal 
Cold Storage Plants," and "Modem Methods 
of Municipal Refuse Disposal." 

The Conference of New England 
Normal School Teachers of Home 
Economics. On February 16 and 17, 1917, 
the first conference of New England Normal 
School Teachers of Home Economics was 
held at Simmons College, Boston, Mass. 
This was the sixth in a series of sectional 
conferences which have been called by the 
United States Commissioner of Education, 
the preWous conferences hashing been held 
at Nash\-ille, Tenn., Kansas City, Mo., 
Moorhead, Miim., Chicago, 111., and Scran- 
ton, Pa. 

The following state normal schools were 
represented at the sixth conference: Farm- 
ington and Gorham, Maine; Plj-mouth 
and Keene, N. H.; North .Vdams, Hj-annis, 
Salem, Fitchburg and Framingham, Mass.; 
ProWdence, R. I.; Willimantic, Conn. 

The conference was presided over by Miss 
L>'ford of the United States Bureau of 
Education, who outlined the purpose of the 
Conference and presented the "Home 
Economics Course in the Normal School" 
as the theme for discussion. 

Dean .Vmold of Simmons College gave 
an address of welcome in which she pictured 
the field that lies before the student of 
home economics and the possibilities for 
future development. 

Dijfrring conditions. The widely differing 
conditions in the normal schools represented 
at the conference became apparent as the 



1917 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



249 



discussions progressed. Framingham, Mass., 
gives a three-year course designed to pre- 
pare special teachers of home economics. 
Two courses in cooking and in sewing ex- 
tending through nineteen weeks, two periods 
a week, are offered at North .Adams, with 
special classes for those who e.xpect to teach 
in the rural schools. 

The normal school at Fitchburg has 
offered no courses in home economics to 
the normal students for the past two years. 
Lessons are given to girls in the seventh 
and eighth grade in the training school. 
No classes are conducted at Salem as a part 
of the normal course, whilt Hyannis offers 
6fteen weeks in cooking and sewing. The 
special home economics course given at 
VVillimantic, Conn, covers two years. 

In the Rhode Island State Normal School 
at Providence, a course in cooking is offered 
for one hour a week, and a course in sew- 
ing for two hours a week throughout one 
year. 

The courses offered in the normal schools 
of Maine extend through two years and 
consist of one or two periods per week 
in cooking and sewing. .\ third year for 
those desiring to become special teachers of 
home economics in the state is offered at 
Farmington. 

The state normal school at Pl>Tnouth, 
N. H., offers a one-year course and has an 
arrangement for students who desire to give 
a third year to special study of home eco- 
nomics, after their regular two-year normal 
course is completed. The regular course at 
Keene runs through one year. 

Special features. Miss Wooldridge re- 
ported a specially well worked out system 
of correlation between the departments at 
the Gorham, Maine, Normal. The students 
are given an opportunity to study the re- 
lation of the home economics course to the 
general school curiculum, giving the work 
a two-fold value. The materials for the 
cooking classes are all secured from the 
dormitor>' and the finished products are 
utilized in the dormitory or in the school 
lunch conducted for the children of the 
practice school. 



Miss Coss reported the system of practice 
teaching carried on at Framingham. Sev- 
enty-five students are teaching sewing at the 
present time. Classes are conducted not 
only in the training school but in the schools 
in nearby towns. Lessons in sewing are 
planned for the fifth, sixth, and seventh 
grades, for some of the ninth grades, and 
the high schools. Miss Coss presented a 
chart outlining a system of unified sewing 
problems for each grade. 

Miss Goff of Hyannis told of the course 
in euthenics designed to give the girls 
instruction in right living, and carried on in 
connection with their life in the dormitory, 
and she described the lessons in homemak- 
ing that are introduced in the training 
school from the first through the ninth 
grade. 

Miss Carpenter outlined the course given 
her seventh and eighth grade girls in the 
training school at Fitchburg and described 
the equipment for the preparation of large 
recipes. Only the simplest dishes are pre- 
pared but those are always made with a 
large recipe and the products are utilized 
in the dormitory. 

Miss Child makes a careful study of the 
home conditions of her pupils in the train- 
ing school at Salem and through informal 
talks relates all their lessons to their home 
lives as closely as possible. She has found 
a home economics club helpful. The cost 
of the cooking lessons in her classes averages 
5 cents per lesson. 

Miss Smith reported that the course at 
Farmington includes such special features 
as one term of demonstration lessons, six 
lessons in experimental cookery, lessons in 
household management, dietetics, and the 
care of children. 

The courses at Pl>inouth were outlined 
by Miss V'arrell as specifically planned to 
prepare the girls for teaching in the rural 
schools. The graduates may be required 
to teach home economics or to cooperate 
with home economics teachers. The stu- 
dents are given practice in school lunch 
work, for the noon hour is felt to be "the 
hour of the home economics teacher." 



250 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



The girls are also given opportunity to do 
catering in the Wllage. 

Miss Blakcy described the carefully 
worked out lesson plan used in the practice 
teaching in W'illiniantic that includes a 
discussion of the score card by which results 
are to be judged, and the establishment of a 
time schedule to determine the length of the 
various processes. The seniors at Willim- 
antic live in the dormitory and the work of 
the dormitory is in the hands of twenty girls 
di\'ided into groups of five. This plan is 
similar to that followed at Framingham. 
The work of the senior dormitory at Fram- 
ingham is in the hands of thirty girls who 
are closely supervised by the director of 
home economics. 

Miss Sholes reported that at North Adams 
the rural school is the center of the work. 
The children bring the materials to be used 
from their houses. The plans are made out 
some days in advance, are submitted for 
approval, and the work is carefully super- 
vised from the normal school. 

A summary of the discussion is given 
in another page of the Journal. 

Miss Lyford writes: The teachers in 
attendance at the conference were most 
delightfully entertained by the Home 
economics staff of Simmons College. On 
Friday, Dr. Blood, Director of the Home 
Economics Department, invited all members 
of the conference to partake of a luncheon 
prepared by one of the cooking classes. On 
Saturday, Dean Arnold entertained the 
conference at lunch in the well appointed 
cafeteria. Opportunity was given to visit 
the various departments of the institution 
and a most interesting hour was spent with 
Miss S. Maria Elliott who explained her 
working equipment and methods of teach- 
ing household management. Other mem- 
bers of the staff also explained their courses 
and took part in the discussions of the 
conference. 

Brief Notes. The University of West 
Virginia gave its first winter short course 
with an enrollment of eleven students. 



This course was used as a method of train- 
ing local leaders f<«r various county 
projects. 

The January meeting of the Home 
Economics Association of Philadelphia was 
in charge of the Committee on Institutional 
Feeding. Dr. C, F. Langworthy, Chief, 
Oflice of Home Economics, United States 
Department of Agriculture addressed the 
association on the Methods of Presenting 
Food Values and Food Combinations to the 
Lajinan. 

The March meeting was a particularly 
happy one, as a former teacher of many 
of the members made the address. To 
those who had been his students the name 
of Dr. Albert P. Beubaker, of Jefferson 
^fedical College, and his topic "The Vita- 
mines and Their Influence on Digestion" 
meant a delightfully instructive evening, 
and their expectations were more than 
realized. 

The preliminary notice of the forming 
of a Dietitians Section was given in accord- 
ance with the charter. 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, Specialist in Home 
Economics, U. S. Bureau of Education, ex- 
pects to attend the National Education 
Association in Portland, Oregon, July 7-14, 
and the meeting of the home economics 
super\-isors of cit>- schools preceding it. 

She will lecture at Manhattan, Kansas, 
the last week in July, on her return trip. 
She is also to give an address at the Pennsyl- 
vania State College on the celebration of 
the tenth anniversary of their Home Eco- 
nomics Department, May 17 and 18. 

Mrs. Calvin attended in April two rural 
educational conferences, one at Philadelphia 
and one at Rock Hill, South Carolina. 

Schools desiring to have Mrs. Calvin 
address them might make arrangements 
with her when she is to be in their locality. 

Miss Catherine MacKay, the president 
of the ,\mcrican Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, will attend the meeting of the 
Association in Portland. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. DC JUNE, 1917 No. r, 

THE MOTHER-DAUGHTER HOME CANNING CLUB^ 

O. H. BENSON 
United Slates Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Ever>' social as well as every economic organization must have a 
definite reason or motive for its existence. The Mother-Daughter Home 
Canning Club, in order to be understood, must be studied ^\^th a realiza- 
tion of the full meaning of the word home, and its relation to the mem- 
bers of the family, their social, educational, physical, and economic 
efficiency, and its relation to the community as a unit of society, to the 
state, and to the nation. In other words, to outline properly a Mother- 
Daughter club project, the leader must have a definite appreciation of 
what a democracy means, and the place of the home in its complete 
interpretation. 

The Mother-Daughter Club is especially planned to bring about a 
closer fellowship for the home work, in both social and economic activi- 
ties, affecting both adult and the young daughter. The mother needs 
the fellowship and xiewpoint of the young girl in order that she may be 
in touch with the educational progress of the day ; with the social changes 
characterized by the interests and acti\'ities of the girl as she comes 
fresh from classroom laboratory, and the instructor of the modern school ; 
and with the influence of the local community. The mother needs the 
youth, optimism, and dream life of the girl in order that she too may 
remain young a great deal longer. 

The daughter, in turn, needs the reinforcement as well as the associa- 
tion of the mother or experienced adult woman in order that she may 

' Part of an address given before the National Vocational Education Association, Chicago, 
January, 1917. 

251 



252 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

secure from her a better balance and poise of character nnd thought for 
her young life. She needs the judgment, the decision, the benefit of 
years of study, experience, observations, in order to save her from 
making the mistakes and perhaps experiencing much of the defeat 
and grind which has haunted the life of the adult mother. 

The club project assumes that the social group must have for its motive 
something definitely and immediately helpful to the home and to the 
farm; consequently the home canning club has been undertaken, as 
this not only affects the bank account, the yields per acre, the net prof- 
its to the farm, but also insures a better balanced ration, and con- 
sequently, a better fed and more eflacient membership of the home and 
community. 

The supply of food, its proper care, preparation, and serving is a 
practical and effectual beginning of housekeeping and homemaking — 
a splendid introduction to the social, educational, and domestic develop- 
ment of the American girl, through which comes to her the realization 
of a well ordered home. It is the best home interest project available 
because it enters the home by way of the back yard and the kitchen, and 
gains entrance to the home work-shop, where truth is lived and told. 
Through this medium, home canning, the leader is able to perform a 
real ser\-ice to the mother, the daughter, and the home by coming, un- 
announced, \-ia the economic motive, into the very life and thought of 
the entire family. 

The club meetings should be attended by an equal number of mothers 
and daughters. One-half of the oflScers of the club group should be 
adult women, and one-half daughters. The Uterary program, demon- 
strations, illustrations, musical work, should represent equally the women 
and girls and so be a truly cooperative enterprise. 

From this club group it will be easy to maintain a fair apportionment of 
work in the home activities such as in the home canning. In many 
communities adult women who are not mothers, and who may be ^\'ith- 
out the opportunity of association -vvith young girls, may become mem- 
bers of the club, providing they find some girl in the community who 
needs to be mothered for a season through this kind of a club project. 
In turn, orphan girls and others may become members if they ■vs'ill find 
an unmarried woman, or some mother who has been left alone and with- 
out a daughter, and will take this adult women and agree to daughter 
her through the club work for at least a year. 



1917] THE MOTHER-DAUGHTER HOME CANNING CLUB 253 

The club program should be conducted, in so far as possible, at a 
time, preferably afternoons, when most convenient for both mothers and 
daughters to attend. The program may profitably be divided into 
three parts, consisting of not less than an hour and a half. 

First there may be a business meeting, in which both women and 
girls may be given some parliamentary drill. The second part may be 
a special program, in which at least one subject should be in connection 
with the home canning work, dealing \vith methods, devices, directions, and 
products, their preparation, marketing, or use. In addition to the home 
canning subject, other subjects related to the household interests, such 
as the care and feeding of the baby, water supply, the convenient ar- 
rangement of the kitchen, the heating and lighting of the home, ventilat- 
ing bedrooms and li\'ing rooms, clothing for the summer, clothing for the 
school girl, study of fabrics, the relation of the home to the school, how 
women may best help their husbands to earn and save money, how to 
secure labor saving de\ices for the home, and other interesting subjects 
of a similar character may be given. 

It is suggested that at least two meetings be held each month and 
tliat, in addition to these club meetings, the canning season be organized 
with a view to having cooperative canning parties in which a convenient 
number of mothers and daughters will meet in a given home to conduct 
or do their home canning work in well organized cooperative groups. 
If the club is too large to do all of its work at one place with one single 
canning outfit, it will be possible to organize the club into smaller can- 
ning groups, each group to own its canning equipment in a cooperative 
way, with a view to both economy and efficiency in the work. 

It is suggested that, after this Mother-Daughter Canning Club has 
spent one year on the home canning project, it will be ready in the 
second year for an increase of definite home project work. The plan 
contemplates a course of four years through which the canning work is 
carried. During the second year definite cooking lessons are to be 
given in connection with the canning; for the third year, a series of 
lessons and directions on canning, cooking, and sewing; and during the 
fourth year, the work is to be so shaped as to cover four definite home 
interest subjects — namely, the home canning, cooking of food, sewing, 
and care and arrangement of the kitchen. Perhaps through the entire 
four years a system of cost accounting or records should be kept, so 
that all members of the project teams may have a very definite apprecia- 
tion of the business management of the home and its interests. 



254 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS QunC 

Those eligible to membership are: girls from 10 to 18 years, inclusive; 
mothers and adult women, regardless of age, who are interested in girls 
and home canning. 

The project. The club project is to be confined chiefly to the canning 
of fruits and vegetables during the summer months, while soups and 
meats will be taken up for the winter season, and these subjects will be 
discussed, illustrated, and demonstrated on every program of the club 
during the year. The food products to be canned should be raised in 
so far as possible by club members or they may be purchased at the 
market, gathered wild, or canned "on shares." 

The program. The program for the Mother-Daughter Home Canning 
Club should be definitely outlined by the state leader, with specific 
suggestions on how to conduct the business session and how to outline 
and make up a subject-matter program. A circular containing sug- 
gestions to the social committee for the social part of the meeting may be 
furnished. The following outline of programs will be found suggestive 
to leaders and program committees: 

PROGRAM FOR FIRST MEETING 

Roll call, answered by giving report of number of jars canned at home. 

Business meeting, twenty minutes. 

Special program. 

Report of members as to progress in work. 

Discussions by members on: 
Methods in canning. 

How to make an inexpensive homemade canner. 
Best fruits and vegetables for the diet. 

Demonstration by Mother-Daughter team on how to can strawberries. 

Social program. This should be furnished by the social committee, and 
should provide for a free and informal discussion on community 
interests, school problems, current events, and perhaps the 
playing of a few games in which both mothers and daughters 
may participate with interest. This program should offer some 
versatility in order to keep up interest on tlie part of both mothers 
and daughters. 

PROGRAM FOR SECOND MEETING 

Roll call, answered by giving a favorite recipe. 
Business meeting, twenty minutes. 



1917] THE MOTHER-DAUGHTER HOME CANNING CLUB 255 

Demonstration program — demonstration by Mother-Daughter teams on 
How to can soft fruits. 
How to make a homemade canner. 
How to can dandelion greens. 
How to prepare and serve vegetable greens. 
Social program. In connection with the social program the suggestions 
given above for the first program may be followed. It may be 
desired also to have a few numbers of music. A few stories, 
nursery rh>anes, and demonstrating the telling of stories to little 
children will be valuable as part of the social program and will 
also be desirable for training the mothers and daughters for 
their home responsibihties. 
In a similar way programs may be outUned for every month, every 
two weeks, or every week, as necessary, covering the entire calendar 
year of twelve months. Play festivals, socials, fairs and festivals, 
educational excursions to visit gardens, orchards, home kitchens in the 
neighborhood, should be planned in cormection with these programs. 
The boys and fathers should be invited to a number of meetings during 
the year and should be given a chance to become interested in the entire 
year's program of the Mother-Daughter Club. The club may some- 
time during the year give a banquet to the husbands, fathers, and friends. 
Instructions for the club work. The state leader in charge of boys' 
and girls' club work and extension workers in home economics should be 
consulted and their cooperation secured. They should be asked to 
furnish programs, outlines, and follow-up instructions. In addition to 
this, the United States Department of Agriculture should be asked for 
their Mother-Daughter home-canning instructions, NR series. 

Prizes and awards. It is understood that the entire club will work 
to win honor and reputation for the community in which they live, and 
that, in addition to this, the Mother-Daughter team will constitute tlie 
unit upon which the standards of achievement are to be measured. At 
the club festivals, county, district, and state fairs, it is .suggested that 
prizes be given with a view to the exhibits from the mother-daughter 
combination. If a prize is given for an exhibit of canned goods, this 
prize is to be won by the mother and daughter together, and to be owned 
by them cooperatively. 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

BASIS OF AWARD: 

1. Quality of variety of canned products 20 per cent 

2. Quantity of canned products 20 

3. Appearance of canned products 20 

4. Profit on investment 20 

5. Records or stories of home canning work 20 

Total score 100 per cent 

The basis of award is suggested, not only to guide the judges or ref- 
erees in the awarding of honors in local, district, and state club festivals 
and fairs, but for the awarding of prizes, and premiums, and more 
especially for the basis upon which school credit may be given for the 
canning work as a home project in connection with the requirements and 
studies in home economics for the public schools. 

It is suggested that at the close of the canning season the daughters, 
working in cooperation with the mothers, take up a study of some addi- 
tional but definite problem in regard to the development and working 
efficiency of the home. 



FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 

This is the time for America to correct her unpardonable fault of 
wastefulness and extravagance. Let every man and every woman 
assume the duty of careful provident use and expenditure as a public 
duty, as a dictate of patriotism which no one can now expect ever to 
be excused or forgiven for ignoring. — Woodrow Wilson. 



1917] THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY 257 

SOME PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS FROM THE AMERICAN 
CHEMICAL SOCIETY 

LOUISE STANLEY 
University of Missouri 

At the meeting of the Ainerican Chemical Society in Kansas City, 
April 10 to 13, there was much of interest to the women in home eco- 
nomics. Much emphasis was laid in the general meetings on the chem- 
ist's part in the war program. Our chief part comes in where chemistry 
touches the food problem. The women were urged to buy no platinum 
jewelry and to discourage its use so as to lefi\'e all the platijium in 
this country available for use in chemical research.^ 

The section meetings of Biological Chemistr>' and of Food and Agri- 
cultural Chemistr>' were of greatest interest to us. Only those of 
most direct interest to home econonics will be reviewed. In the latter 
section a most interesting paper was given by Miss Elizabeth C. 
Sprague on the practical uses of alfalfa flour. ^ WTicn the alfalfa leaves 
are ground they }'ield a fine green powder. When this was added 
untreated to the bread even in so small a proportion as one part in 
ten it gave a green color and a rank taste to the loaf. Miss Sprague 
found, however, that by extraction with 95 per cent alcohol it was pos- 
sible to remove the color and the rank flavor from the flour. The ex- 
tracted flour could be added to the loaf in the proportion of one part to 
ten parts of the ordinary- white flour without imparting a disagreeable 
flavor to the bread. The advantage of the addition of the alfalfa prod- 
uct was its ver>' high protein and mineral content. The ash is especially 
rich in calcium and potassium, and, though no calculations have been 
made, it would indicate high potential alkalinity. The extracted 
flour has not been put on the market, though one firm has considered 
doing so. This offers a possible development of war bread. 

Miss Sprague suggested as a possible value in this connection the 
addition of a food containing an alkaline ash to the soldier's dietary 
so largely composed of foods yielding an add ash. 

' Since this report was written, the Jewelers' Vigilance Committee, in conference with 
the Secretary of Commerce, have adopted resolutions to recommend that all jewelers of 
the United States discourage the use of platinum in all bulky pieces of jewelry and in all 
nonessential parts of jewelry. 

» Elizabeth C. Sprague. The Practical Use of .\lfalfa Flour. 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Interesting in this connection was a paper given in the Biological 
Section by Professor Grindley' of Illinois on the changes in the com- 
position of the alfalfa plant at the different stages up to maturity. 
He showed wide variation in the composition of this plant at the dif- 
ferent stages of growth. The young plants were relatively high in 
protein and ash and low in crude fibre. The percentage of crude fibre 
increased vnih the age of the plant. 

The effect of the intake of foods yielding an acid ash on the growth 
of swine was the subject of a research reported from the Iowa Sta- 
tion by Lamb and EvA^ard.'* They experimented upon twelve animals 
divided into four groups of three each. One group was used as a con- 
trol, while the other groups received definite amounts of acetic, lactic 
and sulphuric acids, respectively. The amounts of add used were 
little more than would have been derived from an exclusive diet of 
egg yolk. All the groups were given the same amount of other feeds, 
the amount being controlled by the appetite of the lowest eating 
group. All four groups grew normally, the weight curves following 
each other closely. The sulphuric acid lot had the least appetite 
during the whole of the experiment. During the last twenty days 
the animals in each group were allowed to eat all they would, and dur- 
ing this time the sulphuric acid lot did not gain so much in weight as 
the other lots, due to the smaller amount of food taken. Some samples 
of morning urines were taken for analysis. The ammonia content was 
found to be greatest on the sulphuric add diet, with 21.5, 21.7, 22.7 per 
cent, least with the acetic acid (7.9 per cent), with lactic add coming 
shghtly above the acetic add with an ammonia content of 9 per cent. 
The amount of ammonia found in the urines of the sulphuric acid lot was 
about equivalent to the amount of sulphuric add fed. The reaction of 
the blood was found to be approximately the same in all cases. They 
conclude that swine are able to grow normally on foods tliiit are dedd- 
edly add. The investigation is to be continued for a longer time to 
test any possible effect on reproductive power and with a more detailed 
metabolic study. 

There were a number of investigations reported on the different 
phases of the fat question. There were three reports upon the character 

* H. S. Grindley and H. C. Kckstein. Variations in the Chemical Composition of Alfalfa 
at Different Stages of Growth. 

* A. R. Lamb and John M. Evvard. The Effect of the Ingestion of Certain Organic 
and Mineral Acids upon Growing Swine on a Normal Level of Protein Intake. 



1917] THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY 259 

of the fat from somewhat unusual sources. Bailey and Burnett' sent in 
a report on the oil of the avocado. Though this fruit is not grown at 
the present time in sufl&cient quantity to supply the demand for the 
fresh fruit, its growth is being extended so rapidly that it seems pos- 
sible that at some future time the oil from it may become an important 
side or by product from this industry. 

The oil from the Stihngia Sebefera/ a seed imported from China and 
grown in fairly large quantities in South Carolina was investigated on 
account of its reported toxicity. The investigators were unable to 
detect any toxic character in the fat which they extracted. 

In another paper the same authors gave the constiints for the fat 
extracted from the seed of the tomatoes.^ This oil is extracted in 
profitable amounts in Italy. In this country the season is so short 
that the extraction has not been considered commercially profitable. 

Biesterfield and Everson^ outlined a method for the estimation of 
fat in condensed milks and dried milks, in which the samples were 
treated with acetic acid and then to an extraction with mixed sol- 
vent, ether and petroleum ether. The fat entered into some combina- 
tion from which it seemed to be released by the action of the acetic 
acid. The mixed solvent seemed more efl&cadous in the removal of the 
fat than ether alone ; also it was recovered better. 

A fairly simple method of demonstrating the hydrogenation of fat 
was outlined by Bailey and Burnett.* They used finely divided nickel 
which was freshly precipitated and reduced in a stream of hydrogen. 
The whole method was simple and could easily be used as a laboratory 
demonstration or experiment in a course in foods. No attempt will be 
made to report the details of the method since only the abstract was 
read and one or two of the points seemed to need checking up. 

Bailey^ ° also sent on the description of an apparatus for the deter- 
mination of the melting point of fats which was heated by the resistance 
offered to the passage of an electric current through sulphuric add. 

' H. S. Bailey and L. B. Burnett. Oil from the .\vocado. Preliminary report. 
' H. S. Bailey and L. B. Burnett. Oil from Stilingia Sebefera. 

^ H. S. Bailey and L. B. Burnett. Physical and Chemical Constants of some .\merican 
Tomato Seed Oils. 

* C. H. Biesterfield and O. L. Everson. .\ Study of the Estimation of Fat in Condensed 
Milk and in Milk Powder. 

* H. S. Bailey and L. B. Burnett. A Laboratory Method for the Hydrogenation of 
Oils. 

" H. S. Bailey. An Electrically Heated Melting Point Apparatus. 



260 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The range of temperatures to which the solution was heated could be 
regulated by the distance the ends of the electrodes were separated. 

Less work was reported on the carbohydrates than on fats. Thomas'^ 
reported an accelerating effect of bromides upon the action of malt 
diastase. Zentmire and Fowler^^ showed that the utilization of the 
carbohydrate was equally good on a high and a low carbohydrate diet. 
The high carbohydrate diet was practically protein free. In spite of 
the unpalatability of the diet the utilization was good. Well-cooked 
cereal starches are evidently completely utilized, the utilization of 
the total carbohydrate in the diet averaging about 99 per cent. The 
quantity of the cereal given did not aflfect the utilization. Assuming 
the complete utilization of the lactose and sucrose, we still have 97 to 
98 per cent of the starch utiUzed. 

In the di\'ision of Agricultural and Food Chemistry, Long^^ made a 
preliminary report upon a volumetric method for the determination of 
starch. In it the starch is precipitated as starch iodide by the addi- 
tion of a known amount of jq iodine solution. After filtration the 
excess of iodine was determined in an aliquot of the filtrate by titra- 
tion with an jq potassium iodide solution using starch as an indicator. 
The method is especially valuable in the determination of starch in 
mixtures containing also large amounts of sugar, as marmalades, jellies, 
and candies. 

In the field of digestion Long and Hull" reported upon the optimum 
activity for the tryptic enz>Tne, In opposition to the usual state- 
ments to the contrary, they find the reaction most favorable to the 
activity of this enzyme frequently on the acid side. The optimum point 
varies with the different proteins for the two proteins studied. The 
optimum reaction for casein was more acid than the reaction for fibrin. 
The study is being extended to other proteins. 

Long and Fengcr'^ report that during digestion the intestinal con- 
tent }aelds an acid reaction. In the intervals between digestion the 
reaction approaches an alkaline reaction . A study of the gases in 
the small intestine indicated the presence of a mixture closely resem- 

" A. VV. Thomas. A Noteworthy Effect of Hromidcs upon the .'\ction of Malt Amylase. 
" Zelma Zentmire and C. C. Fowler. Studies of Food Utilization. No. 1. The 
Utilization of Carbohydrates on a Relatively High and Low Cereal Diet. 
" W. S. Long. A Method for the Determination of Starch. 
** J. H. Long and Mary Hull. On the Optimum Reaction for Trj-ptic Proteolyiis. 
" J. H. Ivong and F. Fenger. On the Normal Reaction of the Intestinal Tract. 



1917] THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY 261 

bling the composition of air. During digestion the carbon dioxide was 
markedly increased at the expense of the oxygen. No hydrogen or 
marsh gas was detected. 

Fowler^' reported some finding on the study of gastric residuuras. 
This particular study was undertaken to see whether or not there was 
any relation between the acidity of the gastric content and the total 
phosphorus content, in order to throw hght on the possible formation 
of gastric HCl from the interaction of di-calcium phosphate with cal- 
cium chloride. The stomach contents of a number of normal men and 
women were removed by means of the Refuss tube for examination. 
He found that there was no relation between the acidity, either free or 
total, and the phosphorus content. The total phosphorus content was 
fairly constant and was higher in women than in men. This seems to 
be in accordance with the higher proportion of phosphorus in the blood 
of women that in the blood of men. 

Moulton*^ reported that in a series of experiments upon beef ani- 
mals upon an alfalfa-grain diet, 53 per cent of the energy of the food 
consumed above maintenance was recovered in the tissue gained. This 
Moulton takes to be a measure of the availability of the ration used. 
Making similar calculations for some experiments by Armsby, he finds 
the ration to be 55 per cent available. These figures show a remark- 
ably close agreement and closely verify the results obtained by Armsby 
in the work in the calorimeter. 

Green^^ reported some work on the changes in composition of the 
salmon muscle. The salmon during the breeding season leave the salt 
water swimming up stream in fresh water. During this time they take 
no food but the energy used in swimming as well as the large develop- 
ment in the reproductive organ must be at the expense of the body 
tissue. From a comparison of analyses made at the mouth of the river 
and those made higher up. Dr. Green finds that the muscle protein may 
be decreased as much as 30 per cent. This according to Green sug- 
gests the possibility of storing protein to this extent. In other words, 
the salmon at any rate may hold as much as one-third of its muscle 
protein as stored energy or as protein available for growth in other 
portions of the body. 

" C. C. Fowler. Studies of the Gastric Residuum. No. III. The Relation of Total 
Phosphorus to Acidity. 

" C. R. Moulton. Availability of the Energy of Food for Growth. 

" C. W. Green. Changes in Composition of Salmon Muscle during Breeding Season. 



262 THE JOTJRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

A HOME WITH AN INCOME^ 

ANNETTE HARVEY 

Supervisor Home Economics, Huntingdon, West Virginia 

A year ago I was confronted with the problem of proxdding a home 
for mother and myself. After full consideration, I decided to rent an 
apartment rather than a house. The house work is easier when all 
the rooms are on one floor; and then, too, whenever I had to be away, I 
was assured of better protection for mother in a second floor apartment 
than if she were left alone in a house. 

A thorough apartment hunt brought me face to face with the fact 
that no sum under $540 a year would provide a cozy home of this variety 
in our particular little city where rents are high. 

Five hundred and forty dollars every twelve months and nothing 
to have or to hold at the end of that time appeared appallingly unfair to 
me. I was earning my money by teaching. I realized its value, and 
paying rent was not an agreeable way of using my salary as I saw the 
situation. I wanted something to represent the money I earned. 

It was brought to my attention about this time that the landlords 
owTiing the apartments I had looked over were making from 10 to 15 
per cent upon their investments in these buildings. Six per cent I 
found was a fair amount of interest to pay upon borrowed money. With 
a suddenly acquired Hetty Green attitude of mind, I wondered if I might 
not put my money into such an investment as these landlords held, 
instead of paying rent to them. 

The idea was monumental. It would be my first plunge into busi- 
ness, and the thought staggered me at first. Yet it grew with a steadi- 
ness of purpose probably helped by the possession of a lot, which I liad 
proudly purchased some time before with my first earnings. 

At the time of buying this lot I had no idea of building. It was 
merely an investment into which I put my sa\dngs. The prop- 
erty was situated in a part of the town where real estate values were 
rapidly increasing and wiser heads than mine considered the investment 
a good one. How pleased then I became with the full realization that I 
had paved the way to the actual possession of a home by putting my 
extra salary each month into this narrow strip of land instead of spend- 
ing it as it was paid to me in the way many of my fellow teachers did. 

* A brief extract from this paper was published in the American Magazine, January, 
1917. 



1917] A HOME WITH AN INCOME 263 

On my lot I decided to erect a building containing two homes; one 
a home for mother and me in the second story, and another for a sec- 
ond little family below, under the same roof, sharing an equal sense of 
protection, which the presence of each would give to the other, but 
separated by sound-proof floors and well built walls. This plan appealed 
to me as sound in purpose. 

I intended that my homes should contain rooms that would not 
have to be labeled; that they should be planned with indi\'iduahty 
enough to express their special functions. I planned hght, cheery liv- 
ing rooms, large enough for big comfortable furniture, uncrowded to- 
gether; dining rooms containing easy spaciousness for all requirements; 
kitchens lighted with many windows and sinks built the exact height 
to prevent tired backs; bed rooms situated where sunshine could play 
into the windows, and spaces planned for beds, roomy dressers and 
chests. The bath rooms must have by all means the new skirt tubs, 
models fitted close to the floor; and porches must be big and broad enough 
to provide space for many uses on summer days and nights. Most of 
all I wanted my homes to be plain. Plain doors, plain woodwork, 
with every dust-catching intricacy eliminated as far as possible, would 
dispel many house keeping worries and make the apartments easier to 
keep in cleanhness and order. 

Could all these desires be carried out with very httle ready money, I 
wondered, almost fearful of speaking of my intentions. Then too, my 
lot only 40 feet wide and 140 feet deep— was this large enough for a 
building such as I contemplated? 

I wanted each room to be bright and airy, visited by the sun, if pos- 
sible. I wanted plenty of windows to allow for cross currents of air. 
I wanted fire places, too, not only to aid ventilation, but to give my 
apartments the very real sense and hominess that only burning embers 
can provide. 

Could I? Was it possible for me to have all of these wishes for 
$5000. It seemed that I would have to own a wishing-ring to gain 
so much. But venture and finding out, are almost as good as wishing- 
rings, so I proceeded to put all of my ideas down on paper before I 
went forth to talk with architects and builders. I reaHzed I must be 
definite when I talked to them of my plans. I made my original floor 
plans on a piece of graph paper, allowing the side of each little square 
to represent one foot. 



264 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

First of all I marked off the size of my lot and within that boundary 
line drew the outside dimensions of the house, 30 feet wide and 50 feet 
long. I planned the front wall 25 feet back from the sidewalk (the 
required building line) ; inside the west boundary line I allowed 3 feet, 
which left 7 feet remaining on the east side of the building. On this 
side I planned the bed rooms. It became necessary for me to add 8 
feet more to the length of the building before I was satisfied with the 
results. 

The first floor plans consisted of a front porch, vestibule, reception 
hall, living room, dining room, butler's pantry, kitchen, Idtchen pantry, 
two bed rooms, hall bath room, bade porch, and four ample closets, 
dear to the housewife's heart. The up-stairs apartment, the one I 
planned for my home, was a duplicate of the first floor plan with the 
exception of a smaller reception hall, giving space for a study over 
the vestibule down stairs. The plans a,lso contained a back stairway 
to an attic, to be used by the occupants of both apartments. An attic 
in our region proves best for storage purposes, a place where we need not 
fear dampness or mildew, so often encountered in our basements. Under 
the rear stairway at the bottom was a closet, separate from both apart- 
ments, where garden implements, and gas and electric meters could be 
stored. This I saw obviated the necessity of gardeners and gas and 
electric men entering the house on their frequent visitations. 

With my roughly made plans I sought a contractor who assured me 
that my ideas were practical for building purposes, and after giving him 
further details of the material and finish I desired to use, I asked him 
for a building estimate on a house of that description. His almost 
discouraging estimate was more than $5000, the sum I could afford to 
borrow and repay with interest in a reasonable time on the salary I 
commanded. 

My building would not have become a reality had I not accepted the 
advice of a friend at this period. Acting upon his counsel I inter- 
viewed an architect, who finally put my plans into concrete order, with 
the proper specifications, and offered them to several contractors, — 
and then I waited anxiously for the bids to come in. The competition 
brought in various sums, differing over $1000, the lowest being $4800. 
This estimate, $200 less than my limit, paid not only the arcliitect's 
fee but also for the walks about the house. 

In the meantime I had been probing into ways and means for financ- 
ing this dream house of mine. Another surprise stalked in my way. 



1917] A HOME WITH AN INCOME 265 

Money I soon learned is a very irregular measure of value. One man's 
or one firm's money was held out to me on higher terms than his next 
door neighbor's. Quite naturally, these men directed many technical 
terms of the financial and real estate world at my head, to further be- 
wilder my debut into the building field. After sifting out all the 
difficult and questionable problems, I decided that a home purchase 
plan, as directed by one of the big reputable insurance associations, was 
the one to use if I made sure of no blunders in my venture. This plan 
necessitated two requirements; first, an insurance pohcy on my life, 
and second the house completed before the company made their loan of 
money. 

I submitted myself to their physical examination and as soon as I 
had passed the requirements, I completed arrangements with the con- 
tractor who had made the lowest bid, to start building my apartments, 
or Duplex House, as it was called. 

My contract with this man stated that the house was to be paid 
for in three pa>Tnents: $250 when the brick walls were up; $1000 when 
the roof was on; and thirty days after the house was completed the 
remaining amount in full. This allowed time for me to secure the 
company's loan to make the final payment. 

So quickly had my plans developed there had not been time to 
save from my salary a sum sufficient to make the second payment at 
the time it was due. It was necessary for me to borrow the money. 
I secured this amount at 6 per cent interest from the bank where I 
kept my savings. 

During the time of building, my credentials had been accepted by the 
insurance company, proving that I was a member of reputable standing 
in the community in which I lived and that my income was sufficient 
to meet the required monthly payments agreed upon. 

When the building was completed an appraisement was made of 
the property by a representative of the insurance company and imme- 
diately I was loaned $4000, or one-half the appraised value of my entire 
holding. Out of this $4000 I settled with my contractor and paid all 
outstanding charges connected with making the loan, as fees for ap- 
praisal, title examination, survey, drawings, recording mortgage, and 
photograph of the house, amounting in all to $50. 

In return for this $4000 loan, I have since paid the insurance com- 
pany $53.08 a month and I am obUgated to continue this payment for 
ten years. At first thought "ten years" sounded a very long time. 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

in my ears, for the absohite ownership in a home to mature. Now I 
realize that ten years will quickly slip by, judging from the rapid 
flight of the past twelve months and at the end of that time I have 
amassed a comfortable little nest, and an egg of an income. I have not 
been paying my money for years into the sieve of rentals. 

The sum $53.08 a month can be spared from my salary without 
discomfort to me. From this amount the rate of insurance on my 
life (which is rated according to age), 6 per cent interest on the money 
loaned, and a part of the principal is paid. In ten years I will have 
paid the insurance company what they have loaned me plus $2369.60. 
From this amount the company deducts a yearly di\ddend, amounting 
to about $15 which automatically applies upon my policy and at the 
end of ten years I can continue my insurance for less than $9 a month. 
fl One of the attractive features of this loan is that I am enjo>dng 
my own life insurance in the possession of my home, for that is what the 
$4000 represents. If I should die during my iiidebtedness to the in- 
surance company my mortgage will be cancelled and all the money 
I have paid on the $4000, minus 6 per cent interest, will be returned to 
my heirs. If I had rented an apartment of similar type for my home, 
I would in the period of ten years have paid a landlord $5400 — at the 
end of ten years I would possess nothing. 

While it is true $53.08 is in excess of the sum I would pay for rent, 
this amount is not entirely out of my pocket since I receive $35 a 
month from the tenants Uving in my first floor apartment. This re- 
duces the rent of my own apartment to $18.08 a month, plus taxes and 
the interest on the thousand dollars I owe my bank and I am gradually 
diminishing this loan. 

I have no difficulty in renting my apartment since its attractive 
features make an appeal not only to housewives but also to the man 
of the house. Men looking at the apartment say the living room and 
yard are all they need to see, and the simple plain wood work, which 
will not demand constant care, the huge closet space, unusual in apart- 
ments, make each housewife feel she has found a treasure. 

There was once a time when I felt sorry for people with a mortgage, 
but now I glory in mine. I wdsh all my fellow teachers and salaried 
women could know the happiness and comfort obtainable through 
A Home with an Income. 



1917] AN APPEAL TO WOMEN 267 

AN APPEAL TO WOMEN 

FROM THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE 

To the Women of the United States: 

Every woman can render important service to the Nation in its present 
emergency. She need not leave her home or abandon her home duties to 
help the armed forces. She can help to feed and clothe our armies and help 
to supply food to those beyond the seas by practicing effective thrift in her 
own household. 

Every ounce of food the housewife saves from being wasted in her home — 
all food which she or her children produce in the garden and can or preserve — 
every garment which care and skillful repair make it unnecessary to replace — 
all lessen that household's draft on the already insufficient world supplies. 

To save food the housewife must learn to plan economical and properly 
balanced meals which, while nourishing each member of the family properly, 
do not encourage overeating or offer excessive and wasteful variety. It is 
her duty to use all effective methods to protect food from spoilage by heat, 
dirt, mice, or insects. She must acquire the culinary ability to utilize every 
bit of edible food that comes into her home. She must learn to use such foods 
as vegetables, beans, peas, and milk products as partial substitutes for meat. 
She must make it her business to see that nothing nutritious is thrown away 
or allowed to be wasted. 

Waste in any individual household may seem to be insignificant, but if 
only a single ounce of edible food, on the average, is allowed to spoil or be 
thrown away in each of our 20,000,000 homes, over 1,300,000 pounds of 
material would be wasted each day. It takes the fruit of many acres and the 
work of many people to raise, prepare, and distribute 464,000,000 pounds of 
food a year. Every ounce of food thrown away, therefore, tends also to 
waste the labor of an army of busy citizens. 

Clothing is largely an agricultural product and represents the results of 
labor on the sheep ranges, in cotton fields, and in mills and factories. When- 
ever a useful garment is needlessly discarded material needed to keep some 
one warm or dry may be consumed merely to gratify a passing fancy. Women 
would do well to look upon clothing at this time more particularly from the 
utilitarian point of view. 

Leather, too, is scarce and the proper shoeing of armies calls for great 
suppHes of this material. There are only so many pairs of shoes in each hide, 
and there is a shortage of animals for leather as well as for meat. Anything 
that can be done to encourage adults or children to take care of their shoes 
and make them last longer means that so much more leather is m^ade available 
for other purposes. 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

Employed women, especially those engaged in the manufactiire of food or 
clothing, also directly serve their country and should put into their tasks the 
enthusiasm and energy the importance of their product warrants. 

While all honor is due to the women who leave their homes to nurse and 
care for those wounded in battle, no woman should feel that, because she does 
not wear a nurse's uniform, she is absolved from patriotic service. The home 
women of the country, if they will give their minds fully to this vital subject 
of food conservation and train themselves in household thrift, can make of 
the housewife's apron a uniform of national significance. 

Demonstrate thrift in your homes and encourage thrift among your 
neighbors. 

Make saving rather than spending your social standard. 

Make economy fashionable lest it become obligatory. 



THE EMERGENCY COMMITTEE OF THE AMERICAN HOME 
ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

The following letter has been sent to members of the Emergency 
Committee : 

The Council has appointed this Committee to act during the war as 
an advisory body. Home economics has come into its own, if it only 
has the vision to see its opportunity and the ability to profit by it. 
For a generation those working in the home economics field have been 
trying to rouse the country to a sense of the importance of its field. Now 
the whole world is calling for help in the very essentials of our work — 
the proper storage and use of food, the elimination of waste of every 
kind, the choice and conservation of clothing, the sanitary conditions 
of daily living and, far above them all in importance, the realization by 
women of their responsibility for the health and happiness of American 
homes. 

The call finds us prepared with knowledge and the desire to help. 
But the great majority of us have professional work that fills our days 
to the overflowing. It is not possible for us to serve on the thousand 
committees of home economics that are springing up in every organiza- 
tion of women. It therefore seemed wise for us to form this national 
committee to act as advisers to those who need help. We must further 
fonn local committees as need arises and workers are available. 



1917] THE EMERGENCY COMMITTEE 



269 



The work of this Committee must be conducted by correspondence 
and every member can help by sending in suggestions. Here are some 
points for immediate consideration. 

Office. The New York City Section of the Emergency Committee 
is financing an office at 19 West 44 Street, and generously offers the 
National Committee this office as an address and a limited amount of 
clerical work. If the work grows, some fund for clerical service, postage, 
and printing will be necessary. As soon as we have had exi^erience 
enough to know what sum will be needed, I will take further steps in the 
matter. 

The office in New York will refer inquirers in different parts of the 
country to the nearest member of the Committee, or to the local com- 
mittee where there is one. 

Local committees. It is most important to form these wherever 
possible and to pubHsh the names in the local press. Please remember 
the following points: 

1. The formation of any local committee must be authorized by some 
member of the national committee, but she can appoint some other 
person chairman, if it seems best. 

2. The organization of each local committee must be reported at 
once to 19 West 44 Street, with the names of the committee and address 
of chairman. 

National League for Women's Service. This organization has asked 
our cooperation as an advisory body, and we have promised it. The 
chairmen of our local committees should get in touch as soon as possible 
with the local chairmen of the N. L. W. S. 

Food conservation. Your chairman is in correspondence with Dr. 
Langworthy and Miss Van Rensselaer about the issue of a pamphlet 
giving titles of available pamphlets on canning and preserving and 
adding directions as to drying fruits and vegetables. It is imperative to 
have something in print on this subject soon. In the meantime, will 
all members of the committee please give the widest pubhcity to the 
following points : 

1. The housekeeper should form the habit of preserving even small 
quantities of fruit and vegetables that might otherwise spoil by over- 
ripening or decay. She must be prepared to do this work daily if 
necessary. 

2. Fruits and vegetables that can be preserved by drying should be 
dried, in order to save containers. 



270 THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS [June 

3. Jelly should not be made, but the fruit juice bottled. This gives 
a use for narrow-necked bottles, and the juice can be used later for 
jelly or other purposes. 

4. All containers of any kind should be collected. If it is possible 
for you to coUect such from city people who would not use them, ask 
your state department of agriculture if they will gather and distribute. 

5. Have a lot of typewritten sHps made with the following information, 
and distribute where needed. Send to your local press. 

Free from United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, 
D. C. Farmers Bulletin 203, Canned fruits, preserves, jellies. Farmers 
Bulletin 359, Canning vegetables in the home. 

6. Send me at once any recipes you have for preserving fruit and vege- 
tables by any other method than canning. 

7. Send me at once suggestions as to what we can do to be useful. 

I am writing today to Secretary Houston and Mr. Hoover, offering 
the services of this committee in any way possible. 

Very truly ;^ours, 

Isabel Ely Lord, 
Chairman. 
May 4, 1917. 



SOME GOVERNMENT HELPS 

Are you using the Food Thrift Series issued by the Department 
of Agriculture, and the Home Economics Letters of the Bureau of 
Education? 

We should today avail ourselves of every bit of work that already 
has been done that we may use it, add to it, and pass it on. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE HIGH COST OF LIVING. I 

MARY HINMAN ABEL 

"How shall we meet the advance in the high cost of li\'ing when 
there is no advance in our incomes" is a question heard again and 
again. It comes with most insistence and most reason from those who 
are living on small salaries, such as ministers, teachers, and clerks. 
"The laborer can live as cheaply as he must, the farmer can reduce 
his personal expenditure to equal his income, but the salaried worker 
must live up to certain conventions of dress and surroundings at peril 
of forfeiting the chance to earn a Living." It is this class that have had 
the hardest time in the belligerent countries. The laborer in all coun- 
tries has had plenty of work at high wages, but the low salaried man 
has had to meet rising prices without any added income. Even the la- 
borer's wage has not kept pace with the phenomenal increase in prices 
during the last few months. 

The causes of this increased cost are many and we have all learned by 
this time that the wise ones do not agree as to the proportion of blame 
to be laid on each factor. 

If the money standard has changed on account of a gold surplus, 
the price of all commodities, including the services we give in exchange 
for our wages and salaries, must in time rise also, but the rise in in- 
comes will be slow except in the case of the poor whose very existence 
depends on the pay envelope. Meanwhile what? 

There are causes which the individual has Httle power to change. 
There are others that come somewhat within his power. Let us con- 
fine our inquiry to food, since that is the pressing question, although 
we know that rents must advance, because all that goes into the building 
of a house has increased in price, and clothing is sure to feel the advance 
in material and labor. 

The causes of rise in food prices over which the individual has no 
power are : 

1. Decrease in supply, by reason of poor harvests, or because there 

are fewer animals to be slaughtered for food, or because of exportation 

to foreign countries. 

271 



272 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [june 

2. Increase in the first price of food because of higher wages paid to 
farm laborers. 

The causes which may be said to be directly, or by combination, 
under our control are most of them not new. They have been in opera- 
tion for years and only because of extraordinary conditions have they 
now come into the limelight. They are: 

1. The extremely wasteful methods of distribution of food, beginliing 
with the apparent inability of farmers to work together by any co- 
operative plan, as farmers in Europe have learned to do, so that condi- 
tions of the market would always be known to them, and waste avoided 
by not sending food products to a market already glutted. These waste- 
ful methods are also seen in the lack, in our large cities, of terminal 
facihties, with cold storage cellars, near the public markets, thus making 
necessary many costly reloadings with consequent deterioration in food 
quality; also in the too large number of middlemen through whose hands 
the produce must go, each taking his toll for service. Philadelphia 
pays $225,000,000 for its food annually; of this sum $75,000,000 goes 
to transportation and middlemen. 

2. The inefficient inspection of weights and measures in our stores 
and markets is also a tax on the purse of the buyer. 

3. Still nearer home comes our inability as housekeepers to use coopera- 
tive measures in buying food, nor can we deny the charge of undue luxury 
and carelessness by which food, that valuable thing on which the exist- 
ence of nations depends, is wasted. 

Ignorance of the foods themselves and of the method of production 
means inefi&cient buying. For instance, by what methods of education 
are we to persuade the buyer to become really intelligent regarding cold 
storage, that most valuable of all modern inventions for providing 
perishable food in fine condition and at fair prices thousands of miles from 
the place of production and months aftei- the natural season? How 
many of us know that but 1 per cent of the eggs coming into the large 
seaboard cities come from near by ; that the entire food supply of New 
York averages a four days' haul by fast freight; that nearly all the but- 
ter is made between May and November ; that the catch of fish between 
December and March is so small that only by help of cold storage can 
the market be supplied in those months? For the housekeeper who 
requires her fish "fresh caught" in January the dealer thaws it out, and 
its swift deterioration follows. 

What can be done to improve these conditions? The Editor of the 
Journal promises its readers articles on these topics. 



1917] SOY BEAN COOKERY 273 

SOY BEAN COOKERY^ 

NELL BEAUBIEN 

High prices and the shortage of many of the staple foods make wel- 
come the suggestion that the soy bean, a food heretofore used in America 
only for feeding stock, may be made into palatable dishes. These 
legumes are particularly rich in fat and protein, containing an average 
of 35 per cent of the latter, which is nearly twice the amount present 
in meat. For this reason, the soy bean may be used not only to take 
the place of the more expensive white bean, but also of meat and other 
foods rich in protein. 

Unlike the white bean, these lack starch and, therefore, their method 
of cookery is somewhat different. The addition of a little flour or corn- 
starch during the cooking gives the liquid surrounding the beans a con- 
sistency similar to that produced by the white bean. 

Three varieties of the bean, black, green, and yellow are common. All 
of these may be used. The black and green are particularly good for 
soup, while the yellow is best adapted for baking. The addition of a 
few white beans, especially in baking, improves both flavor and con- 
sistency. The green soy beans correspond more nearly to the lima in 
flavor and, hence, are frequently served as a vegetable. 

Following are recipes suggesting some of the various ways in which 
the soy bean may be prepared: 

BLACK SOY BEAN SOUP 

1 pint black soy beans ' | teaspoonful pepper 

2 quarts cold water J teaspoonful mustard 

1 small onion 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 small stalks celery 2 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 teaspoonful salt 2 hard boiled eggs 

1 lemon 

Soak beans over night; in the morning drain, add celery and cold 
water. Cook four hours or until tender. Cut onion in thin slices and 
brown sHghtly in the butter, add flour, seasoning, and bean water and 
pulp. Reheat to boiling, strain and pour over the egg and lemon which 
have been cut into sUces. 

^ This work was prepared under the direction of Dr. Amy Daniels at the University of 
Wisconsin. 



274 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

GREEN SOY BEAN SOUP 

1 cup green soy beans 1 quart milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful pepper 

Soak beans twelve hours; drain and cook in water four hours or 
until tender, then rub through sieve. Brown the chopped onion in the 
butter, add flour, milk, and bean pulp; boil one minute, stirring con- 
stantly; season and serve. 

GREEN SOY BEANS 

Soak beans at least twelve hours; drain and boil, in enough water 
to cover, about four hours or until tender. Allow most of the water to 
evaporate during the cooking. When tender, add butter, salt, pepper 
and serve. 

YELLOW SOY BEAN SOUFFLE 

1 cup yeUow soy beans 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter J teaspoonful pepper 
4 tablespoonfuls flour 2 or 3 eggs 

1 cup milk 

Soak beans and cook in boiling water until tender, about four hours; 
drain and rub through -a strainer. Melt butter, add flour and milk and 
boil one minute, stirring constantly; add 2 cups of the bean pulp, cool 
and add the beaten egg yolks and seasoning. Beat the whites of the 
eggs until stiff and fold into the bean mixture. Put in a buttered baking 
dish and bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes. 

BAKED SOY BEANS 

Ij cups yellow soy beans J teaspoonful mustard 

i cup white beans 1 small onion 

J cup sugar J pound salt pork 

Soak beans twelve hours, put into baking dish in which the salt pork, 
onion, sugar, and mustard have been placed. Cover with cold water, 
and cook in a slow oven at least twelve hours. Add water as needed. 

Soy beans alone make a palatable dish when baked. In this case 
two tablespoonfuls of flour should be added with the sugar to give the 
desired consistency. 



1917] CARE OF YOUNG CHILDREN 275 

THE CARE OF YOUNG CHILDREN 

The Children's Bureau is issuing a series of weekly letters on the 
Care of Young Children. These letters are invaluable to the mother 
who finds it diflacult to get the information she needs. 
The first three are on food. 

Much of the illness and suffering among babies commonly attributed 
to the "second summer" or to teething is actually due to errors in feed- 
ing. The baby's delicate digestive mechanism, accustomed to deal- 
ing only with milk, can not all at once undertake the task of adjust- 
ment to a varied diet of soHd foods, but must be strengthened by the 
gradual addition of new foods until the organs are trained to more 
complicated operations. The safe rule for feeding the baby is to add 
but one new food at a time to his dietary; to watch carefully the effect 
of each one and to withdraw it and return to the simpler diet at the 
first sign of trouble. These rules are particularly important in sum- 
mer, when a baby is more readily upset. 

The following hst shows the day's meals for a baby in his second year. 
7 a.m. Milk (quart should be used during the twenty-four hours.) 

Zwieback, toast, or dried bread. 
9 a.m. Orange juice. 

10 a.m. Cereal (weU cooked) ; cup of milk. 

2 p.m. Broth; meat (about 1 tablespoonful scraped or minced), or a 
soft boiled or coddled egg. Vegetable (such as spinach 
or tender green beans, strained after cooking.) Baked 
apple, or prune pulp. 
6 p.m. Cereal; milk; toast or bread. 
10 p.m. Milk (may be omitted). 

At the beginning of the third year more soHd food may be added, 
especially meats^ and vegetables. 

Meats, if used, should be beef, boiled, broiled, or roasted; lamb chops; 
the white meat of chicken; or delicate fish. All meat should be free 
from fat, gristle, or bone, and should be finely minced. 
Eggs should be soft boiled, coddled, or poached, or soft scrambled, 

^ There is a difference of opinion in regard to the age when meat should first be given, 
Mrs. Mary Swartz Rose says, "With milk freely supplied and an average of one egg a day, 
there is no call for the introduction of meat into the diet until after a child is seven years old, 
and on the other hand, there are several good reasons for withholding it during these early 
years." — Feeding the Family, p. 139. 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

never fried. The grated or mashed yolk of a very hard boiled egg may 
sometimes also be used. 

Meat broths may be thickened with arrowroot or corn starch, and 
become a valuable food, especially if milk is added. Well-cooked vege- 
tables, strained and added to warm milk, are not only good foods but 
serve to teach the child to like vegetables. 

Cereals should be thoroughly cooked and served with milk or thin cream 
and a very small amount of sugar or none. 

Bread for a child should be at least two days old. Toast, zwieback, 
or hard crackers may be given once or twice a day. 

Baked potatoes moistened with a little butter, thin cream, beef juice, 
or platter gravy may be given. 

Asparagus tips, spinach, stewed celery, squash, string beans, carrots, 
young peas, well-cooked and mashed, or strained, are all good, and a 
small portion of one of these may be a part of the '^hild's dinner each day. 

Fruits should be continually used, especially sweet oranges, baked 
apples, or stewed prunes. The juice or mashed pulp of fresh ripe pears 
or peaches may be given in the third year, but there is much danger in 
using overripe or green fruit, as well as in giving too much. It is espe- 
cially necessary to be careful in hot weather when fresh fruit decays 
rapidly. 

During the fourth year, milk still remains an important part of the 
child's food. Some children object to drinking milk, but it may be 
given in the form of bread and milk, milk soups, or milk puddings, or 
it may be poured over the cereal. The cereal need no longer be strained 
but must be well cooked. More vegetables and fruits should be used. 
Eggs, meat, or fish, should be given at least once a day. No 
nibbling should be permitted between meals. A child should be taught 
to come to the table with that vigorous appetite for his food which 
leads to good digestion and assimilation. Young children should not 
be offered "tastes" of the family meals. 

Children should have an abundance of pure cool drinking water. 

Never under any circumstances should children be given coffee, tea, 
or strong cocoa. They should have no highly seasoned or spiced foods, 
rich pastries, raw vegetables, onions, corn, or cabbage. Bananas and 
all partly ripened fruit are apt to make trouble. 

If children are inclined to be constipated they should have plenty of 
laxative foods: cereals, particularly oatmeal; the coarser breads, such 
as graham and whole wheat; fruit or fruit juice, particularly oranges 
and prunes; and vegetables like string beans, asparagus, and spinach. 



1917] MILK AND SKIMMED MILK 277 

MILK AND SKIMMED MILK 

HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS DEPARTMEN;r, SIMMONS COLLEGE 

The price of milk has advanced so much in the last few years that 
many people regard it as an expensive luxury. As a matter of fact the 
liberal use of milk, even at its present price, is the best device for re- 
ducing the total expenditure for food, provided it is used as it should be, 
as a substitute for meat, fish, and eggs. It is not overstating the matter 
to say that the smaller the amount of money which can be expended 
for food the more important it becomes that a suitable amount of milk 
shall be used if the diet is to be well-balanced. If the breakfast food is 
cooked in milk and served with milk, the meal is well-balanced with- 
out the use of eggs or meat. If milk is used in the preparation of des- 
serts, such as Indian pudding or cornstarch pudding, or if the vegetable 
is creamed or scalloped, it is not necessary that meat, eggs, or fish should 
be served so liberally in the main course at dinner, as is the custom in 
many famihes. A soup or chowder serves as a suitable nucleus for the 
third meal of the day, whether it be lunch or supper. 

If all of this is true of milk, it is doubly true of skimmed milk, — 
a food which merits very serious consideration from the housewife who 
must reduce expenses. Skimmed milk is poor in fat but it contains all 
the other valuable constituents which make it a substitute for meat or 
eggs. Furthermore, if it can be obtained at all it can be purchased at 
such a low price that it is possible to use it very Hberally in the prepara- 
tion of soups, creamed and scalloped dishes, beverages, desserts, or any 
dish which is ordinarily made with whole milk. The most advantageous 
way to buy skimmed milk in Boston is in the eight and a half quart can 
which may be purchased for twenty-five cents. This is a practical 
procedure for rnost families, if the can is divided between two famihes or 
perhaps bought every other day. In New York it is against the law to 
sell skimmed milk. Every effort should be made to bring about the 
repeal of such laws. Even if skimmed milk is used hberally, whole 
milk should be bought for the children at least a pint a day for each 
child. 

The following suggestions are given for the use of skimmed (or whole) 
milk in cream soups, creamed and scalloped dishes, and desserts. These 
three types have been chosen because they permit of wide variation in 
flavor. Other common uses for milk are in making cottage cheese, and 
chowders. 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

CREAM SOUPS 

1 quart skimmed milk J cup flour 

J cup oleomargarine, butter, or meat fat 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Melt the fat and stir into it the flour. When these are thoroughly- 
mixed, add the cold milk and heat until the flour is cooked, stirring 
constantly until the milk boils. Onion or other flavor may be added. 

This thickened milk may be used as the foundation for any kind of 
cream of vegetable soup by adding mashed vegetable with enough of the 
water in which it has been cooked to give the consistency of the thickened 
milk. A desirable flavor can be obtained with as small a quantity as 
I cup of the vegetable stock and pulp, especially strongly flavored 
vegetables as onion, cabbage, and turnip. As much as 1 quart of the 
more delicately flavored vegetables may be used. 

If the mixture is beaten thoroughly with an egg beater just before 
serving, an attractive lightness may be obtained. 

Vegetables used in this way may be potatoes, carrots, turnips, onions, 
cabbage, squash, peas, beans, corn, and tomatoes. Care should be 
taken not to reheat the tomato soup after the tomato is mixed with the 
milk. 

In preparing fresh vegetables for soup, the uncooked vegetable should 
be cooked in enough boiling, salted water to cover, and water and vege- 
tables put through a puree sieve before adding it to the milk. It is 
much better, however, to plan for the soup when the vegetable is served 
as a vegetable, cooking a little more than is needed for the meal and 
saving, for the soup, the remaining with the water in which the whole 
has been cooked. 

To this thickened milk may be added ^ cup peanut butter to make 
peanut soup. Add ^ cup cheese cut in small pieces to make cheese 
soup. 

CREAMED OR SCALLOPED VEGETABLES OR FISH 

1 quart skimmed milk i cup flour 

^ cup oleomargarine, butter, or meat fat 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Melt the fat and stir into it the flour. When these are thoroughly 
mixed, add the cold milk and cook until the flour is cooked, stirring 
constantly until the milk boils. Onion or other flavor may be added. 

This thickened milk may be used with any cooked vegetable, fish, 
meat, macaroni, rice, slices of toast (either whole wheat, graham, or 
white bread) to make a creamed dish. 



1917] MILK AND SKIMMED MILK 279 

The vegetable should be cooked in boiling, salted water and then cut 
into half inch cubes or small pieces. One quart of the cooked vegetables 
should be used for the amount given. If the vegetable is hot, the thicken- 
ened milk may be poured over the food. If the food is a left over, it 
may be warmed up iu the sauce. 

Variation of the plain creamed food may be made by melting one- 
quarter cup of cheese cut in small pieces in the thickened milk. This 
flavor is good with rice, macaroni, potato, cabbage, or toast. 

The creamed food may also be put in a buttered baking dish, covered 
with buttered crumbs and baked in the oven until the food is hot and 
the crumbs are browned. This is then called a scalloped vegetable, 
fish, meat, macaroni, or rice. 

BUTTERED CRUMBS 

i cup bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful oleomargarine, butter, or 

meat fat 

Prepare the crumbs by drying stale bread, crushing, and sifting. The 
crushing may be done by grinding in a food cutter or rolling on a bread 
board. The sifting may be done with a puree strainer. Melt the fat 
and pour in the cnmibs. Stir until thoroughly mixed. 

DESSERTS 

For dessert the skimmed milk may be thickened, sweetened, and 
flavored to make puddings. 

The thickening material may be any starchy substance, as flour, corn- 
starch, cereals, or it may be bread crumbs, eggs, or gelatin. Following 
are a few examples with variations. 

BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 quart scalded skimmed milk § teaspoonful salt 

I cup sugar i cup melted butter, or oleomargarine 

Soak bread crumbs in milk; add sugar, butter, egg slightly beaten, 
and spice; bake one hour in buttered pudding-dish in slow oven. 

Variations. Melt 2 squares of chocolate and add to it the scalded 
skimmed milk. [If a teaspoonful of sugar and a little milk or water 
are slowly stirred into the melted chocolate till it is smooth and glossy 
there will be less danger of its flaking or separating when the milk is 



280 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

added to it.] Caramelize 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar; dissolve in hot 
water to make a syrup and add to the scalded skimmed milk. 

RICE PUDDING 

1 quart skimmed milk ^ teaspoonful salt 

i cup rice \ cup sugar 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, and pour into buttered pudding-dish; 
bake three hours in very slow oven, stirring three times during the first 
hour of baking to prevent rice from setthng. 

Variations. One cup raisins may be added to make Rice and Raisin 
Pudding. Two tablespoonfuls sugar may be caramelized, dissolved in 
hot water, and added to the milk to make Caramel Rice Pudding. 

The flavor may be changed and cost reduced by substituting f cup 
molasses and § teaspoonful cinnamon for the sugar. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

1 quart skimmed milk, scalded | teaspoonful salt 

i cup cold skimmed miUc \ cup sugar 

I cup cornstarch 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, salt, and cold skimmed milk. Add to scalded 
skimmed milk, stirring constantly until mixture thickens, afterwards 
occasionally; cook until raw starch taste disappears. Turn into a wet 
mold and cool. Unmold and serve. 

Variations. Melt 2 squares of chocolate and add to the scalded 
skimmed milk. 

Caramelize 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, dissolve in hot water to make a 
syrup and add to the scalded, skimmed milk. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

5 cups scalded skimmed milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

5 cup Indian meal 1 teaspoonful ginger 

i cup molasses 

Pour skimmed milk slowly on meal, cook in double boiler twenty 
minutes, add molasses, salt, and ginger; pour into buttered pudding- 
dish and bake two hours in slow oven. Ginger may be omitted. 

Variations: One tablespoonful oleomargarine may be added to im- 
prove the flavor. Any ground cereal may replace the cornmeal to vary 
the flavor. 



1917] MILK AND SKIMMED MILK 281 

TAPIOCA PUDDING 

1 quart skimmed milk speck salt 

I cup tapioca f cup sugar 

Add tapioca, sugar, salt to the milk and cook until granules are clear 
and milk is absorbed. If more liquid is needed, add by the tablespoon. 
Pour into wet molds. Chill, unmold, and serve. 

Variations: Two squares of chocolate may be melted and added to 
the mixture as soon as it is hot. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET 

1 quart skimmed milk 1 cup lemon juice 

5 cup syrup 

Combine lemon juice and syrup, and gradually add the milk. If added 
too rapidly, or without constant stirring, the mixture will have a curdled 
appearance. Freeze. 

Variations: Other sweetened fruit juices may be substituted for the 
lemon juice and syrup. The taste is a sufficient guide for quantity. 

JUNKET 

1 quart skimmed milk 2 junket tablets 

^ cup sugar 4 cup cold water 

1 teaspoonful vanilla or spice 

Heat the milk until lukewarm (not more), add sugar and flavoring; 
when sugar is dissolved add the tablet dissolved in the cold water. 
Pour mixture immediately into sherbet cups. Stand in warm room 
undisturbed until firm hke jelly. Cool and serve. 

Variations: Three tablespoonfuls sugar may be carameHzed, dis- 
solved in hot water, boiled to a thick syrup, cooled, and added to the 
milk. 

One-quarter cup cocoa may be cooked in I cup boiHng water, cooled, 
and added to the milk. 

IVORY JELLY 

1| tablespoonfuls granulated gelatin i cup sugar 

^ cup cold skimmed milk i teaspoonful salt 

2| cups scalded skimmed milk f teaspoonful ciimamon 

Swell gelatin in cold skimmed milk and dissolve in scalded skimmed 
milk. Add sugar, salt, and cinnamon. Strain into mold and chill. 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

OLD METHODS AND NEW CONDITIONS 

JESSIE H, HUE.D 
Indiana University 

With not only the other nations but our own country at war, women 
and children must fight their battles on the farms, in the gardens, and 
in the kitchens. There is a demand for better, larger, and more economi- 
cal food production. Not aU of this food can be used when it is in season. 
Some, it is hoped a great portion, must be preserved; yet there will be 
a great shortage of tin cans this year because of the war, and glass cans 
have already greatly increased in price. There will be no use in making 
this the banner year in food production if we can not take care of the 
food. Here is the problem that women must solve. 

The suggestions made here are practical and useful. Nothing is 
offered that has not been tried and found to work. 

Let us divide the discussion into two parts, namely, "Can substitutes," 
and "Preservation by drying." We know that it is possible to preserve 
many things by drying, for our fore-fathers knew no other way. 

I. CAN SUBSTITUTES 

A . Commercial tin cans 

The cans we buy at the grocery in which our beans, peas, and corn are 
canned, or, in other words, all of the cans which have small soldered-on 
lids may be used again. The lids may be melted off, the cans cleansed, 
and then resoldered when filled. To remove the Hd melt the solder by 
heating it with a red hot coal or a small, hot iron stove Hd. In removing 
the Ud be careful not to bend or nick it in any way. The molasses and 
Crisco cans and buckets may be reused also. To seal fill the crease 
between the lid and can with sealing wax. 

B. Commercial glass cans and jars 

The large cans in which jellies, and preserves of all kinds are put up 
may be used again by placing a piece of card board and wax paper in the 
282 



1917] OLD METHODS AND NEW CONDITIONS 28 J 

lid and dipping the tip in melted parafl&n after the Ud is screwed on, thus 
excluding all of the air. 

The most familiar can of this kind is perhaps the peanut butter jar. 
The large ohve and pickle cans may be used in the same manner. Large 
earthen jars in which jams, butters, and jellies are put up may also be 
used. In this case the Hds fit as in the cans bought for canning purposes 
and must be sealed with either seahng wax or paraffin. The writer 
prefers the sealing wax. Do not try to keep fruit in these earthen jars 
when the weather is very warm. Can the last fruit in the fall in them 
and then use these jars first in the winter. 

C. Bottles 

Fruit juices which we wish to save for mincemeat and jelly-making 
are very nicely preserved in large narrow necked bottles. The cork 
must fit the bottle snugly and the whole top be dipped into melted 
seaUng wax. This prevents the air entering the bottle even by means 
of the air passages in the cork. 

To open such a bottle strike the wax near the cork with a small ham- 
mer or an iron handled knife. The cork receives the jar of the blow 
and the neck of the bottle is not injured. When the wax is once started 
it comes off very easily. Do not try to melt it off with a hot stove hd 
or even with hot water, for the danger of breaking the bottle is great. 

D. Jars 

For some purposes large stone jars may be used if covered with an 
inverted plate which has a smooth round edge and which will just fit 
into the jar. Seal with seahng wax. 

Everyone should save all cans and bottles and either use them or see 
that they are given or sold to some one who will use them. The govern- 
ment has asked that we can nothing which may be dried, such as lima 
beans or corn, thus saving the cans for perishable goods. 

One large factory has stated that it will sell cans only for perishable 
foods. 

II. PRESERVATION BY DRYING^ 

A . Equipment for drying 

For drying in the oven, the oven should be as large as possible and 
only shghtly heated, but enough to prevent the souring of the food. 

^There are now upon the market several cook stove driers costing about six dollars each. 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

There should be a rack made of some thin, firm boards such as laths. 
The laths are nailed at each end and in the middle to another lath. Air 
spaces are left between each of the laths. The rack should be just large 
enough to fit the oven. There should be a piece of iron or of tin to keep 
it from touching the bottom of the oven because of the danger of burn- 
ing. A horse shoe, a lid from the coffee can, or a meat rack will do. 
Large dripping pans may also be used as racks. Plenty of clean white 
paper should be spread on the bottom of the rack. 

The contents should be stirred often in order that they may dry more 
evenly. When the surface of the substance feels dry to the hand the 
inner parts may still be damp. Remove from the rack, put in a cloth 
bag and hang behind the stove to finish drying. Never put in a paper 
bag because the air can not circulate through this, and the dampness 
will cause the substance to mold. 

To prepare these dried foods for the table, soak in warm water in a 
warm but not hot place for several hours, then boil only a few minutes. 
Long and hard boiling toughens the vegetables. 

Some people put their racks on a metal roof to dry. This is very 
good and is utilizing nature's forces, but care must be taken to protect 
the food from flies and to remove the rack from the roof when it is 
cloudy; otherwise the food is very apt to sour. However, it is per- 
fectly possible to keep it upon the roof when the sun is very bright and 
warm, then take from'the roof to the oven when cloudy and at night. 

B. Preparing different kinds of food for drying 

Dried pumpkin. Rind, take out the seeds, cut into small pieces, and 
cook in water until soft; then dry out as much as possible without burn- 
ing. Spread in rack on a clean paper. Follow directions given above. 
Be sure not to let it dry in one large flat chunk. It will dry more easily 
if not left in so large a piece. 

Dried corn. Husk, silk, drop in hot water and leave just long enough 
to scald the milk. Take from the water and cut it from the cob. The 
writer never bothers to split the grains but there is no objection to doing so. 
Be sure not to cut any of the cob into the corn. Spread on the rack on 
clean white paper and follow general directions for drying. Even an 
ear of corn left over from a meal may be easily dried. 

The corn for canning must not be permitted to He over night, husked 
or unhusked, but with corn for drying it makes no difference so long as 
it is not sour. 



1917] OLD METHODS AND NEW CONDITIONS 285 

When preparing this corn for a meal soak for at least three hours in 
warm water in a warm place but not in a hot one. Boil for not more than 
ten minutes in the same water. Season with salt, pepper, and a sprinkle 
of sugar. Make a white sauce or serve with butter. After it is soaked 
this corn may be used in the same way as any canned or fresh corn. 

The main point to be observed is not to hurry the soaking by boiling 
because this only toughens the corn. 

Dried apples. Pare, core, and cut into thin slices. If the applies 
are dirty wash them before paring but not after. Spread on rack on 
clean white paper and put into oven to dry. Proceed as in general 
directions for drying. If a more fancy dish is desired the apples may be 
cored, strung upon a string, and then hung up to dry. 

Some people always string their apples, but in order to do this great 
care must be taken or the apples will slip too close together and when 
drying will become heated and sour. 

Dried green beans. Wash and drain green beans and cook until 
half done; drain again and put on rack on clean paper. Proceed ac- 
cording to general directions. 

Any plump bean such as ''cut shorts" may be gathered when about 
half ripe and dried without any cooking, and then cooked in the same 
way as the navy beans. 

C. Drying house 

This house was used long ago before our fore-mothers had ovens and 
when there were so many trees that there was no very large available 
sunshiny place for drying. 

It consists of a narrow long room about 6 or 8 feet wide, and 12 to 
18 feet long. A heating stove of some sort is located in the middle of 
the room. Shelves above the level of the stove are built on each side 
and at the end opposite the door. In this house there are no openings 
except the door. 

The racks are set on the shelves in this house. These foods must be 
stirred often and the racks turned as often. The house must be hot 
enough so that the food will dry and not sour. The temperature should 
be at least 125°F. There is no danger of the food burning in this house. 
The advantage of the drying house is that the food may be handled 
in much larger quantities than in the oven. 



EDITORIAL 

An Agricultural Bill that Should Help Home Economics. — 

One of the most important bills now before the United States Congress 
concerns the proposals of the Secretary of Agriculture for increasing 
production, improving distribution, and promoting conservation of 
food supplies. These proposals were emphasized by the conferences 
of agricultural representatives of 32 states held at St. Louis, Mo., April 
9 and 10, and of 7 states held at Berkeley, Cal., April 13, and it was 
requested that additional funds be furnished the Department of Agri- 
culture to carry out its program. 

One of the most imperative needs of the Government in dealing with the 
food situation, both from the standpoint of Congress for purposes of legisla- 
tion and from that of the executive departments in administering the laws, 
is adequate power to secure accurate and complete information at all times 
regarding the food supply. 

This power is recommended in the bill. It also recommends 

That the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to take such measures, to 
use such means, and to employ such existing or additional agencies of the 
Department of Agriculture, as he finds necessary, to stimulate the production, 
to promote the conservation and utilization, and to facilitate the distribution 
of foods. 

It asks for coordination between the different departments of the 
government to avoid duplication of work, and for cooperation with 
state and local officials, and such pubhc and private agencies or persons 
as he fiinds necessary. 

The biU also provides 

For increasing food production and eliminating waste and promoting con- 
servation of food by educational and demonstrational methods, through 
county, district, and urban agents and others. 

4= ^ ^ 4= 4: >k 3f: 

For enlargLQg the informational work of the Department of Agriculture; 
and printing and distributing emergency leaflets, posters, and other publica- 
tions requiring quick issue or large editions. 

The need for such teaching, great as it always is in normal times, is 
most urgent in the present emergency when only intelHgence in bu^dng 
and skill in preparing the family food can conserve our resources. It 
is especially necessary that the family of small income obtain this 
286 



1917] EDITORIAL 287 

knowledge, and it can be given them by means of leaflets written in 
popular language, through the work of the Visiting Housekeeper, and 
of pubHc demonstrations. For such work there is at present no pro- 
vision in cities. When food becomes scarce and high our city popula- 
tion needs such education even more than do people Hving in the 
country. 

The Secretary of Agriculture asked for an appropriation of about 
$25,000,000, including the salaries of two new assistant secretaries. 
The Lever BiU H. R. 4188 caUs for $18,510,000. 

Every influence should be brought to bear in favor of the passage 
of this or a similar bill. 



NOTICES 



The American Home Economics Association will hold a meeting in 
connection with the National Education Association in Portland, 
Oregon, Tuesday July 10, 1917, Dean Catharine J. MacKay, Iowa 
State College, presiding. 

MORNING SESSION 

Address and Greetings from the American Home Economics Association, 

Dean Catharine J. MacKay. 
Service to be Rendered the Country by Home Economics Teachers, 

Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin, Specialist in Home Economics, Bureau 

of Education, Washington, D. C. 
Sequence and Correlation in the Teaching of Home Economics in the 

Public Schools, Mrs. Ellen P. Dabney, Supervisor of Home Eco- 
nomics, Pubhc Schools, Seattle, Wash. 
Scope of Home Economics and Its Subject Matter in University and 

College Courses, Miss Alice Ravenhill, Professor of Household 

Economics, Utah Agricultural College. 

AFTERNOON SESSION 

The value of home demonstration work. 

Miss Edith Parrott, State Agent for South CaroHna. 
What the Association Can Do to Decrease the Death Rate of Children 
in America, Mrs. Max West, Children's Bureau, Department of 
Labor, Washington, D. C. 



288 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The Influence of the Trained Consumer in Raising Standards, Mrs. 

Mary Schenck Woolman, 
Association Headquarters — Seward Hotel. 



National Charities and Corrections Conference 
Pittsburgh, Pa., June 6-13, 1917 

Social Problems of the War, the Family and the Community, Health, 
Rural Social Problems, Community Programs, all these are topics of 
distinct interest to home economics workers. They are to be discussed 
in detail at sectional and general meetings during the National Chari- 
ties and Corrections Conference in Pittsburgh, June 6-13, and members 
of the American Home Economics Association are cordially invited to 
attend. 

At the session of the Health Section Dr. Graham Lusk, Miss Lucy H. 
Gillette, and Dr. C. L. Alsberg will speak on food and nutrition prob- 
lems. Friday evening, June 8, Mr. Herbert C. Hoover will speak. 
Special community programs will be given on June 9. 

The Social Work Committee of the Association is arranging for 
a luncheon and round table meeting on June 9. Professor Benjamin R. 
Andrews of Teachers College will preside at the luncheon, and lead a 
discussion of "Home Economics in National Service: what can it 
give? and how?" Among the special speakers are to be Mrs. Mary 
Hinman Abel of Baltimore and Miss Florence Ward of the U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

If Association members are unable to attend the entire conference, 
it is hoped that they may be able to come for this day's meetings whic}> 
should prove so helpful and stimulating. 



Graduate Fellowship in Household Administration 

The trustees of the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund and the Uni- 
versity of Chicago jointly offer a graduate fellowship of $500 and 
tuition, to be used at the University of Chicago during the year 1917- 
1918. Candidates must hold a bachelor's degree and be equipped to do 
advanced graduate work in some phase of Household Administration. 

Apphcation for this fellowship should be made before August 1, 1917, 
to the Ofhce of the Graduate Schools, University of Chicago, lUinois. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



The Home and the Family. By Helen 
KrsTNE and Anna M. Cooley. New 
York: The MacMillan Company, 1917, 
pp. 292. $.80. By mail of the Journal, 
$.90. (Homemaking Series.) 
The authors of this "elementary text 
book of homemaking" have used very suc- 
cessfully the device of gi\ang adults much 
instruction and information while appearing 
to be working mainly to interest the chil- 
dren. This volume is a reader to be used 
as a supplement \vith two other volumes 
by these authors, "Food and Health" and 
"Clothing and Health." 

In five chapters divided into thirty-three 
lessons, many of the principles of selection 
of furniture, color schemes, care of the house, 
care of the baby, division of time and of in- 
come, are presented in an interesting way. 
The authors, in addition, have made the 
volume in a sense a memorial to Mrs. Ellen 
H. Richards, and have called attention to 
many of the intangible elements of home 
and family life. It is an excellent book for 
both the school and the home. 

Isabel Bevier, 
Director of Household Science, 
University of Illinois. 

A Course in House Planning and Furnish- 
ing. By Charlotte Wait Calkins. 
Chicago: Scott, Foresman and Company, 
1916, pp. 79. $.60. By mail of the 
Journal, $.68. 

In this book we have a definitely organized 
body of material, dealing with the practical 
application of art principles to the problems 
of house planning and furnishing. The 
topics include: those relating to house ex- 
teriors, including architecture, floor plans 



controlling elevations, garden plans and 
mechanical perspective; those relating to 
house interiors, including walls, woodwork, 
doors, windows, pictures, floor covering, 
furniture and small objects. 

The art principles are presented in three 
ways, through quotations from artists, 
through discussion, and through the solu- 
tion of definite problems. Since the book is 
written for use by children, one feels, that 
in connection with each problem there should 
be a more concise statement of the art prin- 
ciple, which is the rule by which it may be 
solved. 

The application of the art principles is 
made to practical topics, and in most of the 
problems, in a practical way. The popular 
interpretation of the practical application of 
art principles is that of considering use, dura- 
bility, cost, including money, time and 
energy, and a knowledge of trade names as 
very vital factors modifying selection and 
arrangement. The author considers use 
and durability as controlling art principles 
but the influence of cost and a knowledge 
of trade names is not developed in connec- 
tion with each topic. 

The discussion of architecture deals with 
the relation of a building to its site, both in 
color, contour and material. This is purely 
from the art view point and leaves the stu- 
dent without a definite vocabulary for apply- 
ing the appreciation, so gained, to the dif- 
ferent tjT^es of architecture now in use in 
America. 

This architectural form vocabulary, with 
the historic names, comes in the solution of 
the problems of elevations where students 
make tracings of types of American archi- 
tecture as determining elevation designs. 

289 



290 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



The discussions of floor plans and elevations 
are the most complete and satisfactorj^ topics 
in the text. 

The topics dealing with the problems of 
interior furnishing are excellently handled. 
The examples which are presented as the 
basis for judgment are those to be found in 
the market today. However, here again is 
felt the lack of consideration given to prac- 
tical facts. In planning the furnishing of a 
room, a knowledge of stock sizes of rugs, 
wearing qualities, width of curtain material, 
and cost of various wall treatments is of 
fundamental importance in buying and 
arranging. 

Ethelwyn Miller, 
Assistant Professor of Household Art, 
School of Education, Univ. of Chicago. 

Letters to a Young Housekeeper. By Jans 
Prince. Boston and New York: Hough- 
ton, Mifflin Company, 1917, pp. 168. 
$1.35. By mail of the Journal, $1.43. 
In this group of rather personal letters to 
an inexperienced j'oung bride, Jane Prince 
discusses some of the stumbling blocks in the 
path of a young housekeeper. The particu- 
lar problems discussed are those which the 
girl who has been brought up in a well-to- 
do family with many servants finds when 
trying to fulfill her duty as the wife of a 
man of very moderate income. 

After dealing very briefly in the first two 
chapters with the question of economy and 
the budget, the author devotes the remain- 
der of the book to a discussion of the man- 
agement and duties of the servant or serv- 
ants. The attitude of mistress to servant 
is discussed, and emphasis laid on the fact 
that duties must be clearly defined, with 
regular hours and sufficient and definite 
time out, for the maids. Outlines given 
for the week's work, for cleaning, for setting 
table and serving meals, could be followed 
by the woman doing her own work, although 
given here for the servant. 

One chapter is devoted to the duties of 
servants in the household employing cook, 
waitress, and chambermaid, an outline being 
given for the daily work of each and ar- 
rangement for time off for each. The last 
chapter gives in detail arrangements for 
serving an elaborate dinner, requiring three 



servants if there are eight at table, or five 
servants in case of twelve plates. 

These letters are ver>^ readable and are 
suggestive. The writer has evidently 
learned by experience that a considerable 
part of the responsibility for the contentment 
of her servants rests with the mistress. 
Some of her suggestions might well be fol- 
lowed by more women who employ maids. 
The book does not claim to contribute any- 
thing particularly novel, and touches but 
one phase of the large problem of household 
management. It does, however, give to the 
woman with no training along these lines 
some idea of system in housework which 
can be applied by the woman who does her 
own work as well as by the one who em- 
ploys a servant. 

Charlotte G. Baker. 

Emergency Work for Women, and other War 

Papers. 

Columbia University Mobilization Com- 
mittee on Women's Work, with Dean 
Gildersleeve as chairman, have been study- 
ing possible openings for women in emer- 
gency work, and are preparing leaflets. The 
first four are: Hospital Service, Elementary 
Nursing, First Aid and and Surgical Dress- 
ings; Emergency Social Service; Agriculture; 
Emergency Food Service. 

Miss Gunther, of Teachers College, has 
acted as chairman of a sub-committee in- 
vestigating lines of work for women, with 
courses being offered for special training. 

Information regarding these different lines 
of work is given out at an Information 
Bureau, 301 Hall of Philosophy, Columbia 
University. 

The Division of Intelligence and Publicity 
has published War Papers entitled: Enlist- 
ment for the Farm; Mobilize the Country- 
Home Garden; and Food Preparedness. 

The Children's Food, By Prof. Mary S. 
Rose of Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, has been written especially for The 
National Special Aid Society, 259 Fifth 
Ave., New York City. They are anxious 
to place it in the hands of every mother, and 
have made the price as low as possible in 
order to be of service to the community. 

Single copy 5 cents, 100 for $2.50, 500 
for $10.00, 1000 for $16.50. 



1917] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 291 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

City Milk Supply. By Horatio Newton Parker. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 

1917, pp. 493. $5.00. By mail of the Journal, $5.18. 
Dressmaking as a Trade for Women in Massachusetts. By May Allinson. Boston: Women's 

Ed. and Ind. Union, 1916, pp. 180. (Vol. 4 of Studies in Economic Relations of 

Women). $.80. By mail of the Journal, $.86. 
Food and the Principles of Dietetics. By Robert Hutchison. New York: 4th. Ed. 1917, 

pp. 617. $4.00. By mail of the Journal, $4.18. 
Laboratory Guide in Market Milk. By H. E. Ross. New York: Macmillan Company, 

1917, pp. 65. 
Minimum Cost of Living. By Winifred Stuart Gibbs. New York: Macmillan Company, 

1917, pp. 93. $1.00. 
Opportunities for Women in Domestic Science. By Mary Francke. Boston: Women's 

Ed. and Ind. Union. Published by Association of Collegiate Aliminae, 1916, pp. 64. 

(Vol. 1, pt. 3 of Studies in Economic Relations of Women). $.80. By mail of the 

Journal, $.85. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The following pamphlets may be obtained from the Editor and Chief of the Division 
of Publications, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, or from the 
department under which they are published. 
Bread and Break Making in the Home. By Caroline L. Hunt and Hannah H. Wessling. 

U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bui. No. 807, April, 1917, pp. 25. 
Experiments in the Determination of the Digestibility of Millets. By C. F. Langworthy and 

A. D. Holmes. U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bui. No. 525, AprU 7, 1917, pp. 11. 
The Small Vegetable Garden; Suggestions for Utilizing Limited Areas. U. S. Dept. of Agr., 

Bui. No. 818, April, 1917, pp. 44. 
Studies on the Digestibility of Some Animal Fats. By C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes. 

U. S. Dept. of Agr., Bui. No. 507, March 24, 1917, pp. 20. 
Administration of Child Labor Laws. Pt. 2. By Helen L. Sumner and Ethel E. Hanks. 

U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau Pub. No. 17, 1917, pp. 164. 

The following pamphlets are issued by the University of Texas, Austin, Texas. 
Beautiflcation of Home Grounds. By Mary Heard Ellis. Bui. No. 17, jMarch 20, 1916, pp. 29. 
Furnishing and Decoration of a Home. By Fannie A. Sims. Bui. No. 26, May 5, 1916, pp. 

25. 
Planning of Simple Homes. By Mary Heard Ellis & Raymond Ellis. Bui. No. 39, July 

10, 1916, pp. 38. 
Simple Course in Hotne Economics for Rural Schools. By Mary Gearing, Jessie P. Rich, 

and M. Minerva Lawrence. Bui. 49, Sept. 1916, pp. 162. 
What Help the Teacher Can Get from the University Extension Department. Bui. No. 42, 

July 25, 1916, pp. 8. 

The following pamphlets are issued by the Ext. Div. of the University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, Wis. 

Baby Week Campaign, 1917. Serial No. 847, Gen. Ser. No. 641, March, 1917, pp. 37. 
Bathing the Baby. By Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall. Serial No. 850, Gen. Ser. No. 644, 
pp. 6. 



292 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

Infants' Clothes. By Annabell Turner. Serial No. 851, Gen. Ser. No. 645. pp. 4. 

Prenatal Care. By Dr. Dorothy Reed Mendenhall. Serial No. 849, Gen. Ser. No. 643, pp. 8. 

Cofmnunity Music and Drama. Serial No. 843, Gen. Ser. No. 638, February, 1917, pp. 28. 

The following pamphlets are issued by the publishers listed. 
The Children's Food. By Mary Swartz Rose. New York City: National Special Aid 

Society, 259 Fifth Ave., 1917, pp. 10. $.05. 100 for $2.50; 500 for $10.00; 1000 

for $16.50. 
The Dangerous House Fly. Special Bulletin of the Merchants' Association of New York 

(City), April 1917, pp. 4. 
Food. . . . What to Buy, How to Cook It, How to Eat It. By Eugene Lyman Fisk, 

New York City: Life Extension Institute, 25 West 45 St., cl917, pp. 32. $.10. 
Food Economies. Bureau of Public Health Education of the Dept. of Health, City of 

New York, 139 Center St., 1917, pp. 22. 
The Food Garden Primer. National Emergency Food Garden Commission 210-220 Mary- 
land Bldg., Washington, D. C, 1917, pp. 8. $10.00 per thousand. 
Keep Well Leaflet. No. 9. Bureau of Public Health Ed. of the Dept. of Health, City of 

New York, pp. 8. 
Greens in the Diet. By Margaret H. Haggart. Kans. State Agr. College Bui. Vol. 1, 

No. 7, April 15, 1917, pp. 8 (Bibliography). 
Lessons in Cooking. Iowa State Teacher's College Extension Service. Ames. Iowa. 

October 2, 1916, pp. 70 (Bibliography). 
Lessons on Sewing. Iowa State Teachers College Extension Service, Ames, Iowa. Sept. 1, 

1916, pp. 23. 
The Rat Campaign. Bui. of Women's Municipal League of Boston (6 Marlborough St., 

Boston, Mass.), vol. 8, No. 3, February, 1917, pp. 39. 
Thrift Its Application. Y. M. C. A. New York City: Industrial Dept. of the International 

Committee, 124 East 28 St., cl9l7, pp. 16. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 293 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the JotniNAL. 

Foods and Cookery 

Breakfast Foods and Their Relative Value. G. E. Youngburg, South Dakota Sta. Bui. 
168 (1916), pp. 447-461. 

Rice, as Prepared for Food in Bengal. J. N. Rakshit, Agr. Jour. India, 11 (1916), no. 
2, pp. 174-198. 

Making Light Bread. Addie D. Root, Univ. Missouri, Col. Agr. Ext. Serv. Circ. 11 
(1916), pp. 11. 

[Inspection of Shellfish.] Maine Sta. Off. Insp., 78 (1916), pp. 41-52. 

Rye Flour and Rye Bread. E. Braun, Northwest. Miller, 108 (1916), no. 8, pp. 513, 
514, figs. 7. 

Some Tests of Flour Made from Egyptian Wheats. F. Hughes, Min. Agr. Egypt Tech. 
and Sci. Serv. Bui. 10 (1916), pp. 1-9, figs. 5; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 36 (1917), no. 2, pp. 
159. 

A Method of Making Bread. G. Cornalba, Btil. Agr. Milan, 50 (1916), no. 27, p. 1; 
abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 35 (1916), no. 6, p. 555. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

The Nutritive Value of Yeast, Polished Rice, and Winte Bread, as Determined by Ex- 
periments on IVfan. C. Funk, W. G. Lyle, D. McCaskey, et al.. Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 
(1916), no. 1, pp. 173-191. 

The Nutritive Properties of Corn. A. G. Hogan, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, 
pp. 193-208. 

The Isolation of a Growth-promoting Substance from Sheep Pancreas. W. H. Eddy, 
Jour. Biol. Client., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 113-126, figs. 9. 

The Study of Certain Dietary Conditions Bearing on the Problem of Growth in Rats. 
C. Funk and J. Poklop, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 1-14, figs. 4. 

Pancreatic Diabetes in the Dog. I, The Influence of Alkali and Acid upon the Glyco- 
suria and HjTDerglycemia. J. R. Murlin and B. Kramer, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 
2, pp. 481-498. 

Pancreatic Diabetes in the Dog. II, Is the Glucose Retained when Sodium Carbonate 
is Administered to Depancreatized Dogs Deposited as Glycogen? B. Kramer, J. Marker, 
and J. R. Muriin, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 2, pp. 499-515. 

Pancreatic Diabetes in the Dog. III. The Influence of Alkali on the Respiratory Metab- 
olism After Total and Partial Pancreatectomy. J. R. Murlin, B. Kramer, and J. A. Riche, 
Jour. Biol. Cliem., 27 (1916), no. 2, pp. 517-538. 

The Metabolism of Sulphur. I, The Relative Elimination of Sulphur and Nitrogen 
in the Dog in Inanition and Subsequent Feeding. H. B. Lewis, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), 
no. 1, pp. 61-69. 

Studies of Urinary and Blood Nitrogen Curves After Feeding in the Dog. O. H. P. 
Pepper and J. H. Austin, Proc. Soc. Expt. Biol and Med., 12 (1915), no. 8, pp. 179-181. 

Feeding Experiments on the Substitution of Protein by Definite Mixtures of Isolated 
Amino Acids. H. M. Mitchell, 7o«r. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), no. 1, pp. 231-261, figs. 5. 

The Digestibility and Utilization of Egg Proteins. W. G. Bateman, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 
(1916), no. 1, pp. 263-291. 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

The Importance of Vitamins in Relation to Nutrition in Health and Disease. C. Voegt- 
lin, Jour. Wash. Acad. Sci., 6 (1916), no. 16, pp. 575-595. 

Some Metabolic Effects of Bathing in the Great Salt Lake. II. Helen I. and H. A. 
Mattill, Avier. Jour. Physiol, 41 (1916), no. 2, pp. 143-152. 

The Energy Metabolism of a Creatin. F. B. Talbot, Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 12 
(1916), no. 2, pp. 145-148, fig. 1. 

Digestibility of Very Young Veal. C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes, U. S. Dept. 
Agr., Jour. Agr. Research, 6 (1916), no. 16, pp. 577-588. 

Digestibility of Hard Palates of Cattle. C. F. Langworthy and A. D. Holmes, U. S. 
Dept. Agr., Jour. Agr. Research, 6 (1916), no. 17, pp. 641-648. 

The Rapidity with which Alcohol and Some Sugars May Serve as Nutrient. H. L. 
Higgins, Anu;r. Jour. Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 2, pp. 258-265, fig. 1. 

The Influence of the Nature of the Diet on the Retention of Protein. N. Umeda, Bio- 
chem. Jour., 10 (1916), no. 2, pp. 245-253. 

The Protein Metabolism of an Infant. F. B, Talbot and J. L. Gamble, Amer. Jeur. 
Diseases Children, 12 (1916), no. 4, pp. 333-344, fig. 1. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The Necessity for Health Standards. D. B. Armstrong, Av^r. Jour. Pub. Health, 7 
(1917), no. 1, pp. 1, 2. 

Some Shortcomings of Socio-Sanitary Investigations. Franz Schneider, Amer. Jour. 
Pub. Health, 7 (1917), no. 1, pp. 3-13. 

A Survey of Dairy Score Cards. C. E. North, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 7 (1917), no. 1, 
pp. 25-39. 

Housing Conditions as Factors in the Production of Disease. J. Ford, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 7 (1917), no. 1, pp. 42-15. 

Standard Methods of Bacteriological Analysis of Milk. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 
(1916), no. 12, pp. 1315-1325. 

Improved Technic in Bacterial Air Analysis. W. W. Browne, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 
7 (1917), no. 1, pp. 52, 53, figs. 2. 

Final Report of the Committee on Standard Methods for the Examination of Air. Amer. 
Jour. Pub. Health, 7 (1917), no. 1, pp. 54^72, figs. 7. 

Psychiatric Clinics in the Schools. J. T. MacCurdy, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), 
no. 12, pp. 1265-1271. 

Bibliography of Tuberculosis. Atner. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 12, pp. 1327- 
1333. 

The Relation of Social and Economic Factors to Mental Hygiene. C. M. Campbell, 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 12, pp. 1278-1282. 

Malaria as a Public Health and Economic Problem in the United States. J. W. Trask, 
Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 12, pp. 1290-1297, fig. 1. 

Refuse and Garbage Disposal — ^A General Survey. L. L. Tribus, Amer. Jour. Pub. 
Health, 6 (1916), no. 12, pp. 1307-1314. 

The Suppression of the Drug Vice Considered from the Demand Side. J. F. Chase, 
Amer. Jotir. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 8, pp. 814^821. 

Storage, Handling, and Sale of Food in Philadelphia. Janice S. R. Lit, Rpt. Henry 
Phipps Inst., [Univ. Pemu], 12 (1916), pp. 9-55, pis. 10, figs. 11. 

The Effects of Exposure to Cold upon Experimental Infection of the Respiratory Tract. 
J. A. Miller and W. C. Noble. Jour. Expt. Med., 24 (1916), no. 3, pp. 223-232. 

The Pathological and Therapeutic Bearings of the Elimination of Body Heat. J. B. 
Nichols, Med. Rec. [N. Y.\ 90 (1916), no. 12, pp. 492-495. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

SOUTHERN HOME ECONOMICS CONFERENCE 

A conference of home economics teachers and extension workers was held at Macon, Ga. 
March 20-21. The purpose was twofold: (1) To promote acquaintance among the home 
economics workers of the South and to lay a foundation for more cooperation and greater 
uniformity of w^ork; and (2) to discuss definitely a few pressing questions, one of the most 
important being the character and distribution of home economics courses in the schools 
and colleges and the present repetition and waste when pupils go from one school to another. 
The home economics meeting was one of the group making up the Southern Conference for 
Education and Industry, and is deeply indebted to the general secretary, Dr. A. P. Bourland, 
for his untiring interest and assistance. Representatives from eleven southern states were 
in attendance. 

The program was arranged under five topics. 

Topic 1. Home Economics in the High School 

Mrs. Henrietta Calvin, specialist in home economics in the United States Bureau of Edu- 
cation, presided. 

One of the points developed was that a textbook, even though imperfect, was preferable 
to dictation and notebook work. It was felt that the notebook work, except where neces- 
sary to supplement the accepted text, is a waste of student time and often results in the 
inaccurate copying of notes and the recording of misleading statements. Criticisms made 
upon some of the present texts were that they cover thinly too many subjects; that they are 
written with no definite type of school in mind; that they are padded with recipes and filled 
with vague statements; that the question of costs is ignored and many statements made as 
final truths which are still unsettled. AU present felt, however, that regardless of these 
defects textbooks should be adopted and used. 

Many teachers are handicapped by too short periods and too infrequent periods for home 
economics subjects. The conference determined to advocate double periods for laboratory 
and single periods for recitation; it further decided to urge that three double periods and two 
single periods be given each week — this or its equivalent in time to constitute a full high 
school unit. 

Miss Anna E. Richardson of the University of Texas gave an address on Home Economics 
in the University and How the High School May Best Prepare for It. Miss May Hansis of 
the High School, Birmingham, Ala. spoke on the same topic from the side of the high school 
under the title. Home Economics as a High School Subject and How the College Course May 
be Adapted to It. 

During the discussion of college entrance credit in home economics the conference went 
on record as desiring that the content of the high school course in home economics should be 
decided according to the needs of the high school girl whether or not she expects to go to 
college, rather than according to what might be most desirable if thought of simply as a 
college preparatory subject. A request was made by the Southern Association of Secondary 
Schools and Colleges that the home economics teachers agree upon the amount of entrance 

295 



296 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

credit they wish granted and clearly define the amount and tj^pe of work which will entitle 
a school to this credit. A committee was appointed to report upon a definite plan for en- 
trance credits, to be submitted at the next meeting. 

Topic 2. Home Economics in the Elementary School 

A number of special reports were made from difi'erent states. Mississippi requires home 
economics in all consolidated schools. This work begins in the fifth grade and consists of 
daily lessons in which food study alternates with clothing lessons. Miss Rosser, Supervisor 
of Home Economics in the schools of Jefferson County, Ala., discussed tlie possibility of some 
home economics instruction in the still prevalent one-room rural school, which she described 
as a "necessary, temporary, tolerated e\dl." 

Miss Katherine Pritchett, Home Demonstration Agent of Maryland, spoke on Home 
Industries in Rural Schools, giving a number of practical methods of introducing the work 
with little or no equipment. 

Dr. Charles A. McMurry, Professor of Elementary Education at Peabody College, ad- 
dressed the conference on The Type Study Method as Applied to Home Economics. He 
showed how, in the elementary school course of study, home economics subjects may become 
organizing units into which may be gathered a vital, rich, and full content of thought material 
and culture material closely related to the child's experiences and bound up with them. 

Topic 3. Home Economics in the Normal School 

Miss Christine N. South, State Normal College, Greensboro, N. C, presided. 

Reports were followed by discussion of the relationship of the work in the normal school to 
that in the elementary and high schools and the colleges; also of the amount of time given 
in the course to other subjects, especially to education, psychology, and practice teaching. 
Emphasis was laid upon the need for seeing that teachers adapt their subject matter to the 
class to be taught, and do not simply pass on to their classes a repetition of their own work 
in the normal school. On the other hand Mrs. Calvin warned the conference against under- 
estimating the ability of the girl in the upper grades and in high school, saying that one 
reason for the frivolousness of the high school girl is that she is not given work making 
sufficient appeal to her real mental ability. 

Topic 4. Home Economics in the College and Technical School 

Miss Harriet A. Boyer, Sophie Newcomb College, presided. 

The topics especially considered in the reports and discussions were: prerequisites of 
courses, time requirement, related subjects and correlation with related subjects. The 
danger of specializing too narrowly was emphasized. There must not be so much time given 
to study of food and clothing that not enough is left for other equally important subjects 
such as the furnishing, management, and care of the home, sanitation and home nursing, 
the care of children, the relationship of the home maker to industry and social life. The 
subject matter of other courses, such as chemistry, biology, fine arts, history, sociology and 
economics, should be applied and made use of in the home economics classes. The home 
economics courses also should be correlated with each other, thus eliminating repetition and 
waste of time on the part of the student and giving the student a grasp of the subject as an 
organic whole, not as a group of disjointed parts. 

On Wednesday, March 21, President Catharine J. MacKay, addressed the assembled con- 
ferences on A Vital Factor in Education. A happy chance incident of her address was the 
fact that from the same platform Representative Hughes had just finished addressing the 
Conference on Education on the subject of the Smith-Hughes Bill. 



1917] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



297 



Topic 5. Home Demonstration and Extension Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. H. H. Merry of the Georgia Federation of Women's Clubs presided. 

The Successful Rural Extension Worker, — her Personality and her Training was dis- 
cussed by Mrs. Jane S. McKimmon,State Agent of North Carolina, and Miss Mary Feminear, 
Assistant State Agent of Alabama. 

The Ways in which Home Demonstration Agents, Home Economics Teachers, Women's 
Clubs, and School Improvement Associations May Cooperate was the subject for a lively 
round table discussion in which representatives of each of these groups offered helpful 
suggestions. 

The conference resulted in a permanent organization to be kno^\Ti as The Southern Home 
Economics Association, and the following officers and committees were elected: 

President, Ada M. Field, Peabody College for Teachers, Nashville, Tenn. 

Secretary, Marie White, Meredith College, Raleigh, N. C. 

Treasurer, Agnes E. Harris, Florida State College for Women, Tallahassee, Fla. 

Chairman of Committees. Elementary School, Elizabeth G. Moore, 112 Fourth Street, 
Louisville, Ky. (City Public School.) 

High School, Edith M. Thomas, Hood College, Frederick, Md. (Supervisor Home Eco- 
nomics, Frederick County). 

Normal School, Christine N. South, State Normal College, Greenboro, N. C. 

College, Harriet A. Boyer, Sophie Newcomb College, New Orleans, La. 

Constitution, Catherine A. Mulligan, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C. 



Household Arts Teachers of Chicago. 
On April 17 the Superintendent of the 
Chicago Schools called a meeting of the 
Household Arts teachers to discuss in 
what manner the department might render 
assistance in the solution of certain economic 
problems that confront the city. 

After expressing his pleasure in meeting 
for the first time the entire department, 
and his surprise that it contained so many 
members, Mr. Shoop brought viv-idly 
before them the serious conditions imposed 
by the war, and the dut}^ of everyone to 
assist in this crisis. He emphasized the 
value of the services that might be rendered 
by the Household Arts Department, if its 
efforts were properly organized and di- 
rected. Several members of the Board of 
Education were present and called attention 
to the opportunity afforded the High 
Schools to cooperate with the Red Cross 
work; to the use of Social Centers for 
lessons and demonstrations; and to the need 
of individual economies for the sake of the 
example. The extention of production 
and the conservation of foods were dis- 
cussed b}- Miss Jenny Snow of the Chicago 



Teacher's College with the suggestion 
that, since proper containers for canning 
and preserving would be difficult to pro- 
cure and very expensive, special attention 
ought to be given to the various dehydrat- 
ing processes. She urged the issuing for 
general distribution of printed matter show- 
ing the comparative nutritive value of foods 
in simple forms; the using to advantage 
all of the wool material on hand. 

The use of cheaper foods, and the methods 
of the palatable preparation and service 
of such foods u-ith special reference to 
the value of the neglected hominy; the 
avenues, through which the information and 
suggestions, in the hands of the department, 
could be made available to those portions 
of the population most in need of help, 
such as round tables for the mothers who 
had leisure to attend such meetings, and 
for the others the cooperation of the visiting 
housekeepers, now connected with various 
charitable institutions; the economic value 
of foods of small water content, such as 
se^•eral varieties of beans costing ten cents 
or less a pound; and the possible economies 
in the selection and preparation of foods 



298 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



that could be introduced in the homes by 
the enthusiasm of the pupils, with the 
suggestion that this might well be encouraged 
by permitting them to take to their homes 
from the school any utensils necessary for 
the proper demonstration of methods of 
preparation — these were among the subjects 
discussed by Mrs. Byrud, Mrs. Hubbell, 
Miss Routh, and other teachers. 

Three committees were suggested by 
]\liss Dora WeUs, Principal of the Lucy 
Flower Technical High School, and were 
appointed by the Superintendent, the first 
to consider how the production of food maj'- 
be increased by instruction in the public 
schools; second, to urge and teach methods 
of conservation of food, clothing, and other 
articles of household and general use; and 
third, to consider and arrange for some 
organized Red Cross work, or work that 
should be auxiliary to Red Cross activities 
in the high schools, that enthusiasm aroused 
in the girls in the high schools should be 
directed into some productive effort. 



The Dress Procession at the Annual 
Meeting of the Maryland Federation 
of Women's Clubs. An afternoon of the 
two days' meeting had been assigned to 
the Home Economics Section for the sub- 
ject of dress, and Miss Helen Louise John- 
son had been engaged to speak on the 
Standardized Street Dress. To precede this 
lecture a procession was arranged of 31 
models wearing costumes to represent the 
main epochs in the dress of women in the 
last 300 years. The gowns were loaned for 
the occasion by those in whose families 
they were heirlooms. Three very beau- 
tiful brocades of the Colonial period and 
one embroidered muslin Empire gown had 
been for years on exhibition in the cases of 
the Smithsonian Institute. It can not be 
said, however, that the more recent gowns 
were as highly prized. It was very difficult 
to even find distinctive specimens of the 
last tliirty years; they had been kept by 
accident or because of some grotesque or 
extravagant feature. 



The styles seem to have suffered only 
slight changes during the seventeenth and 
eighteenth centuries; but with the passing 
of the Empire go Asm in 1820, the changes 
became much more frequent, being quite 
markedly different each decade from the 
decade preceding. Under the stimulus 
of organized business and the growing wealth 
of the countrj^, changes in the style of 
dress have become more and more frequent, 
and have embraced many absurd and 
extravagant features, as the bustle, the 
wide sleeves, the trailing gown for the street, 
the hobble skirt, the excess of trimming 
(one gown of 1875 having scarcely a square 
inch not ornamented by bands, tucks, 
cording, ruffles, or flowers). Since 1900 
the changes of style have been yearly and 
quarter yearly. 

This dress procession was explained as 
it passed by Mr. Ra3rmond Sovey of the 
Maryland Institute, who was dressed in the 
striking costume of the French court dandy 
of the time corresponding to our early 
Colonial. He assayed to prove that to 
some extent the stj^le of clothing always 
expresses the time, as the extravagance of 
the French aristocrat with utter lack of 
duties or responsibilities, or the simpUcity 
of republics showing in the so-called Empire 
gown. 

Against this background of the past came 
Miss Johnson's plea that modern dress, 
especially for the street, should be less sub- 
ject to change, standardized to a certain 
extent as are men's clothes, thus being more 
suitable for the constantly increasing part 
that women are taking in the work of the 
world, and diminishing the outlay for 
clothing which is now more than the house- 
hold budget can stand in justice to other 
demands on it. She explained how these 
frequent and rapid changes were responsible 
for making the garment trade a seasonal 
trade of the most extreme character and 
what evU its rush times and slack times 
impose on the worker. 

Miss Johnson wore the "Biennial" cos- 
tume and advocated some modifications 
of its simple lines to meet the present need. 



1917] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



299 



Home Economics Fellowship. At a 

meeting of the Baltimore Association for 
the Promotion of the University Education 
of Women held in connection with the 
Maryland Federation of Women's Clubs at 
Goucher College April 26, it was announced 
that the 1917-18 fellowship of the Associa- 
tion had been awarded to Miss Anna E. 
Richardson, Adjunct Professor of Home 
Economics, University of Texas. Her 
subject will be physiological chemistry. 

This is the second time a home economics 
student has secured this fellowship, the 
holder for 1916-17 being Miss Louise 
McDanell who will receive her Pd.D. in 
physiological chemistry at Yale in June and 
has just been appointed Associate Pro- 
fessor of Home Economics at Goucher 
College. 

At Hood College, Frederick, Md., a 

small group of home economics teachers 
met for conference and organization, April 
28. The State Home Economics Associa- 
tion of Maryland was organized with the 
following officers: President, Miss Thomas of 
Hood College; Vice-President, Miss Reeves 
of Hood College; Secretary, Miss Stevenson 
of Baltimore; Treasurer, Miss Heyser of 
Hagerstown. A fee of fifty cents a year 
was agreed upon and plans were made for 
a second meeting to be held in Baltimore 
at the time of the meeting of the State 
Educational Association. 

An address of welcome was given by the 
President of Hood College and a lecture 
on the subject "Present Opportunities 
for Service by Home Economics Women" 
was given by Mrs. Calvin of the Federal 
Bureau of Education. 

Luncheon was served to the guests by the 
dietetics class of the home economics de- 
partment of the college. A committee on 
county and state courses of study was 
appointed. 

University of Illinois. Some of the 
seniors in the Household Science Depart- 
ment of the University of Illinois are 
making preparations to keep in touch with 



the work in home economics by subscrip- 
tions to the Journal of Home Economics. 
Sixty subscriptions have been taken recently. 

The students of the Household Science 
Department, under the leadership of Omi- 
cron Nu and Household Science Club, 
gave an "open house" on the evening of 
March 30. Guides were provided to show 
the guests the equipment of the Woman's 
Building. A little play entitled, "A Good 
Dinner," was one form of amusement offered 
to the guests. The admission fee of ten 
cents, together with the candy sale, netted 
the Richards' Memorial Fund eighty-five 
dollars. 

The Department of Household Science 
entertained the Legislators Friday, April 
13, 1917. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Indiana State Teachers' Association met 

in a called business meeting in Indianap- 
olis, Saturday, April 14. Forty teachers 
from various parts of the state attended. 
Mrs. Alice P. Norton, of Chicago, Secre- 
tary of the American Home Economics 
Association gave a resume of the work done 
by the committees of that Association and 
an inspiring talk upon the new opportunity 
for greater service to the nation, which 
war conditions give the home economics 
teacher. Miss Geraldine Hadley, president 
of the association, appointed committees 
for constructive work in the state. 

The committee on organization and 
affiliation with the national Home Economics 
Association (Mary E. Cammack, Chair- 
man) will make a survey of the state; the 
Pen and Press Committee (Mabel Wellman, 
Chairman) will collect material for publica- 
tion; the committee on exhibits (Frances L. 
Swain, Chairman), and budgets (Louise 
Knight, Chairman) will secure information 
regarding the work done in these subjects; 
the Legislative Committee (Miss Shank, 
Chairman) will watch both state and 
national legislation on matters relating to 
home economics. A committee on con- 



300 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



servation of food (Elixabeth Cowan, Chair- 
man) was appointed to cooperate with the 
State Department of Public Instruction in 
the circulation of information relating to 
the economical uses of food. A committee 
on social work (Mary Ralston, Chairman) 
was also appointed. 

The officers for the year are : 

President, Geraldine Hadley, Technical 
High School, Indianapolis. 

Vice-President, Grace L. King, Richmond, 
Indiana. 

Secretary-Treasurer, Elizabeth Bray, 
Evansville, Indiana. 

Representative Councilar, Elizabeth Cowan, 
Crawfordsville, Indiana. 

The Ellen H. Richards Club. In 

November last Helen Louise Johnson gave 
in Crawfordsville a talk on Budgets, and 
the girls of the high school home economics 
classes were so interested that there seemed 
need of further discussion of various prob- 
lems necessarily crowded out of a laboratory 
course. Sixty girls responded to a call for 
the formation of an organization to meet 
once a month. Officers were elected who 
conduct the meetings by parliamentary 
rule, and regular programs are given on 
home, civic, and girl problems. Some 
latent talent in impromptu speaking has 
been developed. 

Mrs. Richard's name was chosen for the 
club by unanimous decision, and perhaps 
this is the kind of tribute she would most 
appreciate. 

Brief Notes The National Board of the 
Y. W. C. A. is offering, at its New York 
headquarters, July 6-August 3, a graduate 
course in Association cafeteria management 
combining both advanced theory and prac- 
tice, continuing the short course for house 
secretaries and lunchroom directors opened 
in 1914, 

Miss Winifred Stuart Gibbs has been asked 
by the Mechanics Institute, of Rochester, 
N. Y., in cooperation with the Chamber of 
CoiELmerce, to found and direct a depart- 
ment of extension work in home and social 



economics. The scheme of vrrk includes 
dividing the city into districts and working 
through a neighborhood association in each 
district. It is hoped in this neighborhood 
scheme to rouse and use the community 
spirit, to make all possible use of every re- 
source in the neighborhood, and to attempt 
to put each individual home on as sound a 
basis as possible. This will include careful 
expense keeping for all income groups, 
diet work, and studies of cost of living. 

Miss Gibbs is hoping to develop her spe- 
cialty of Home and Social Economics along 
very broad lines, particularly with inde- 
pendent families. She has lately spoken in 
Boston for the New England Home Eco- 
nomics Association, and in Providence for 
the Providence District Nursing Association. 
Miss Gibbs is President of the Home 
Economics Association of Greater New 
York. 

The Home Economics Association of Wash- 
ington, D. C. met February 6. Miss Zirkin 
gave a lecture on Furs, illustrated with 
genuine pelts. The talk included valuable 
points on appearance, cost, ways of manu- 
facturing, and values of furs, and how to 
take care of them. 

The members of the faculty of the State 
Normal School, Harrisonburg, Va., are en- 
joying a series of luncheons given to them 
in groups by the household arts seniors. As 
a test of their skill in applying what they 
have learned of domestic economy, fouf 
students each week are given $1.75, and, 
with this amount plan, provide, cook, and 
serve a luncheon for six persons. The re- 
sults show remarkable skill in persuading 
this small sum to cover the cost of a dainty 
and delicious meal of four courses, especially 
in these days of soaring prices. 

A set of five charts showing the Relative 
Cost of Equal Portions of Foods, with di- 
rection for changes in prices, has been pre- 
pared by Dr. Alice Blood of Simmons 
College. They will be exceedingly valuable 
either for demonstration lectures or class- 
room teaching. 



Vol. IX, No. 7 July, 1917 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Nobton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Managing Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel Ajtna Barrows C. F. Langworthy Isabel Ely Lord Katharine Blunt 

Ex-Officio Members — Catbarine J. MacKay, President American Home Economics Association 
Emma H. Gunther, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Ruth Wheeler, Chairman Science Section 
Neale S. Knowi.es, Chairman Extension Education Section 

Collaborator! — The Officers, Members of the Council, and .\dvisers 



CONTENTS 

The College ContSE ix Home Fxoxomics Elizabeth C. Jenkins 301 

The Developmext of Home Ecoxomics at the Uxiverstty of Washixgtox . Effie I. Raill .314 

Home Ecoxomics axd the Commuxity Cexter John Collier 319 

Kelpixg A Commlts'ity to Coxserve Florence E. Broohins 322 

Food Reqxhrements of Childrex Lucy H. Gillett 324 

Goxjcher College Preparedxess Pledge 326 

The Emergexcy Committee of the .\. H. E. A 328 

For the Homemaker . 329 

A Course in Food Ecoxomies for the Housekeeper 329 

Barley Cookery m 

EcoxoMY IX Leather 336 

Caxxixg axd Preservixg 338 

Editorial 339 

Notices 339 

QuESTiox Box 341 

Books axd Liter.ature 343 

blbliogr.\phy of home ecoxomics 345 

News from the Field 347 

The Journal of Home Economics is published monthly by the -American Home Economics .■Association. 

$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADL\N $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Draft on New York, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable 
to the American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

CHANGE IN .\DDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which the 
eh&nge is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Entered as second class matter at the Baltimore Post Office 





Models of Figures used on Home Economics Building, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash. (See page 314.) 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX JULY, 1917 No. 7 

THE COLLEGE COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 

ELIZABETH C. JENKINS 

New Bedford Industrial School New Bedford, Massachusetts 

*'To maintain normal family life, to restore it when it has been inter- 
fered with, to create conditions more and more favorable to it, is the mider- 
lying object of all our social work."^ So writes Dr. Edward Devine, 
and his opinion is reinforced by statements of similar import in one dis- 
cussion after another in the modern literature on social problems. 

"The family is the foundation of morality, the chief educational insti- 
tution, and the source of nearly all real contentment among men."^ 

"It is likely that the public, as it wins a deeper insight into the serv- 
ices of the family to society and to the race, will feel less sympathy with 
the wrong-doings, weaknesses, and whims that shatter it."^ 

"One approaches, for example, the most immediate and fundamental 
of social problems — the institution of the family. It is the vestibule 
of the social order, the unit of ci\ilization, the original group into which 
by the very circumstances of human birth and infancy each individual 
is introduced. The evolution of the family is a curious record of this 
struggle of t}^es in which every possible relation has been historically 
tried and sifted out so that the fittest sur\dve And mean- 
time what is the conception of the family which through the long ages 
of its evolution has gradually emerged and which is now the only guar- 
antee of its stability and permanence? The family, many people may be 
ahnost surprised to learn, is not a device invented to procure either 

1 The Family and Social Work, Edward T. De\'ine, p. 32. 
* Christianity and Social Order, Bauschenbusch, p. 272. 
' Changing America, E. A. Ross, p. 62. 

301 



302 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

personal happiness or mutual convenience The family 

is in danger when it is created for what one can get out of it, and it is 
safe only when it is prized for what one can give to it. The family is 
the chief human instrument for the socializing of the will and the spirit- 
ualizing of desire."* 

If this is sound doctrine, we should expect to find, not merely a cor- 
diale entente, but close knit alliance with an organized plan of campaign 
among sociologists, social workers, and all bodies working for the im- 
provement of family life. And in this alliance we should expect to find 
the Home Economics Association the most influential member, for Mrs. 
Ellen H. Richards, the great pioneer in this movement, fashioned its 
purpose with a view to such leadership: "Home Economics stands for 
the ideal home life of today, unhampered by the traditions of the past; 
for the utilization of all the resources of modem science to improve 
home life; for the freedom of the home from the dominance of things and 
their true subordination to ideals; for the simplicity in material surround- 
ings which will free the spirit for the more important and permanent 
interest of the home and of society." 

With such a purpose, the pioneers in the movement faced the tremen- 
dous undertaking of organizing into subject matter for the school curric- 
ulum material which had never been used for formal instruction. They 
had to devise new methods of teaching, train teachers in these methods, 
overcome popular indifference and prejudice sufficiently to get a footing 
for teachers and methods in the college course. But the belief that "he" — 
or she — "who has the school has the future" gives great courage always. 
And it seemed certain that, once home economics secured its place among 
the recognized school subjects, fimer home life must soon become evident 
in all classes of society. 

The statistics secured by Professor Andrews show how successful the 
leaders of the home economics movement have been in winning a place 
for these new subjects in the schools. Professor Andrews reports that, 
in 1912-1913, 252 colleges were offering instruction in home economics. 
The total registration in the institutions that furnished data was as 
follows : 

In preparation for teaching 1788 students in 56 colleges. 

In preparation for professional service 264 students in 24 colleges. 

In preparation for homemaking 3435 students in 61 colleges. 

* The Approach to the Social Question, Peabody, p. 147. 



1917] COLLEGE COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 303 

"Of the total 5547 students reported in home economics courses, 
63 per cent are studying for home use; 32.2 per cent are preparing for 
teaching; 4.8 per cent are preparing for administrative positions. These 
figures come from about 35 per cent of the colleges teaching home eco- 
nomics in 1912-13. However the institutions reporting were the more 
important colleges, so that these total registration figures represent 
perhaps two-thirds of the college students in home economics. Prob- 
ably there were at least 8000 college women following these courses in 
1912-13.'" 

This number is more significant because of the influence these women 
exert directly and indirectly: indirectly because the 63 per cent of the 
college students in home economics who are preparing themselves for 
homemaking must form a group of educated women, thoroughly inter- 
ested in a fine type of home Hfe and of a social position to give their 
standards weight. Gabriel Tarde has shown us how powerful are the 
laws of imitation by which changes in standards of living spread from the 
upper social classes to the lower. Directly, because those trained to 
teach go out to develop courses in household arts in the lower schools. 
Professor Andrews reports that, while "up to and including the year 
1895 only eleven states — Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode 
Island, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, District of Columbia, 
Virginia, Ohio, and Wisconsin were giving this instruction, it is now of- 
fered in every state in the Union. One hundred and fifty-nine normal 
schools, 2440 high schools, and 3082 towns and cities give household 
arts instruction."^ And this list, he tells us, is incomplete because of 
the difficulty of getting data. 

It is of interest therefore to ask how the widespread instruction in 
home economics is valued by those who are most interested to-day in 
the study of social problems. 

At the meeting of the Home Economics Association in St. Louis in 
1911, the question of introducing sociology into the curriculum aroused 
spirited discussion. Professor Fetter of Cornell said: "Our teaching 
of the social subjects, including home economics, to be vital must in- 
clude observation, investigation, and practical training along with pre- 
cept and principles. We mUst break this vicious circle, this endless 
chain, of youth untrained in the arts of the home becoming untrained 

^ Education for the Home, Benjamin Andrews. Part III, p. 81. United States Bureau 
of Education Bulletin. 

* Education for the Home, Part IV, p. 42. 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [july 

parents of another generation of untrained youth. A part of our task is 
to arrive at sounder notions of the kind of family life that is possible 
and desirable in our new social conditions. That, rather than the cost 
of foods or the cost of gingham, is the main task of home economics." 

Professor Howard said: "That sociology should fill a large space in 
the curricula of college departments of household science might be 
taken for granted were it not for the facts disclosed by their pubKshed 
announcements. These reveal a surprising progress in the differenti- 
ation of the technical and professional studies peculiar to that science. 
Even in the smaller and younger institutions, the student finds in the 
courses deahng with food, shelter, clothing, personal hygiene, household 
administration, and the like, a rich feast spread before him. The 
progress already made on this side of science deserves the highest praise. 
On the other side, the side of supplementary studies needed to place these 
departments on a proper college basis, the showing is not so encourag- 
ing." 

Dr. Elwood at this same session said: "The biological factors in the 
home or in the family life have certainly not been neglected by your 
science especially on the side of nutrition, sanitation, and the like. The 
real vital elements, however, in the family are the relations of individuals 
to one another, and these relations are mainly psychological or spirit- 
ual as we say The real object of your science can surely 

be nothing less than" to secure good homes, homes which shall produce 
the highest type of manhood and womanhood. Therefore the spiritual 
aspects and functions of the family and the home must be taken account 
of by the student of household science. Household science can hardly 
be studied intelligently without understanding the meaning, the func- 
tion, and the purpose of the family and the home life in the total life of 
humanity." 

These criticisms and appeals seem to have had as yet little effect on 
the make-up of the course of study in the home economics departments. 
Professor Goodsell of Columbia University in A Plea for Historical 
Courses on the Home^ says : "Even in those professional schools and state 
universities where ample recognition is afforded to domestic science 
and art, I submit that it might be quite possible for a young woman to 
pass through courses of instruction in these subjects without carrying 
away an enlarged vision of their relation to the problem of the modern 



' Jour. Home Economics, April, 1913.. p. 112. 



1917] COLLEGE COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 305 

home. Even if it be considered for purposes of argument that the stu- 
dent does see the application of much that she studies to the large edu- 
cation of homemaking, and is intelligently interested in the subject, 
it still remains true that such technical courses cannot supply all the 
knowledge which seems essential if young women to-day are fully to 
appreciate the meaning of parenthood and homemaking in the twentieth 
century." 

In 1913, the American Home Economics Association published a 
Syllabus of Home Economics. Fifty-nine pages of the Syllabus are 
devoted to a detailed outKne of instruction. They are proportioned 
as follows: 

pages 

f selection 7 

Food I preparation 7 



r selection 6 

Clothing < preparation 6 



i selection 3 
preparation 18 
use 2 



Household and Institution 



fMaterial basis 2 (total 55) 

\ Social contacts 1 



Management . 



\ 
J Activities and functions 2 

[ \ Aims and results 1 (total 4) 

Here again we find the same disposition to lay little emphasis on the 
study of the Family as a great factor in social progress. 

But the most pertinent question is this : does the course as at present 
organized in the college correspond to the felt needs of women who are 
at present solving in the best way they know how the problems of home 
and family Hfe? The answers to a questionnaire returned by ninety 
seven of the one hundred and thirty women to whom it was sent have 
considerable interest in this connection. 

QUESTIONNAIRE 

In the light of your homemaking experience, what subjects are essential 
to a college course, which aims to prepare for homemaking? 

Should the emphasis in Chemistry and Economics be on principles or 
applications? 



306 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Should the emphasis in Literature and Fine Arts be on history or appre- 
ciation? 

N. B. — Consider the course four years in length requiring the usual high 
school preparation. It must justify its subjects by the part they play in 
preparing a woman to lead a wholesome, happy, useful life, wh'ch encourages 
her husband and trains her children to the same kind of living. 
Please mark subjects a, b, c, or d. 
a — indispensable; b — important; c — of some use; d — unnecessary. 

Physics Ethics 

Bacteriology Sociology 

Biology Cooking 

Botany Sewing 

Chemistry Dressmaking 

Economics Millinery 

Education Dyeing 

English Weaving 

Fine Arts Use of Tools 

French House planning and sanitation 

German Cost of food, shelter, and clothing 

History Dietetics 

Latin Child study 

Physiology a. Physical care 

Hygiene b. Mental development 

Physical training c. Games and stories. 

Psychology 

The questionnaire is full of weaknesses, of which perhaps the main 
ones are three: 

1. The content of the subjects is too vague. What one woman is 
thinking of when she marks bacteriology indispensable does not occur 
to the woman who marks it unnecessary. 

2. No distinction is made between elementary and advanced courses 
in a subject. 

3. Women who have no knowledge of a subject or to whom it has been 
badly taught cannot judge whether or not it would have been more 
helpful to them interpreted by a good teacher. 

To guard against these weaknesses, the questionnaire was sent to 
women who are a picked group for intelhgence and for interest in such a 
discussion. In the first sixty copies sent out, the content of English 
was made a little less vague by dividing it into literature and composi- 
tion. In only two cases did it make any difference in the marking. The 



1917] 



COLLEGE COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 



307 



fact that mathematics was omitted from the questionnaire through an 
oversight and that not one of the women missed it has a certain interest 
of its own. 

While criticisms of the questionnaire are many and valid, it is never- 
theless reasonable to believe that any subject marked "a — indispensable" 
or "b — important" by two-thirds of the women in each group to which 
it was sent has a right to an important place in a college Home Econom- 
ics Course. It is then the responsibility of the college to see that the 
subject is in the hands of a competent and inspiring teacher — as original 
in the ability to bend his subject to the needs of his pupils as it is pos- 
sible to find. 



Subjects marked a or b by at least two-thirds of the women in any 

of the groups. 



Bacteriology 

Biology 

Chemistry 

Economics 

Education 

English 

Fine arts 

History 

Physiology 

H^'giene 

Physical training 

Psychology 

Ethics 

Sociology 

Cooking 

Sewing 

Dressmaking 

Millinery 

House planning and sanitation 

House decorating 

House management 

Physical care of child 

Mental development 

Games and stories 

Dietetics 



GROUP I 


GROUP n 


GROUP m 


GROUP rv 


2 1 women 
non-college 
homemakeis 


42 women 

graduates 

liberal arts 

courses 


18 women 
home eco- 
nomics 
graduates 


16 women 

home owning 

unmarried 






15 






30 


12 


14 






15 


11 


16 






11 


15 








21 


40 


17 


16 


17 


32 


13 


14 


16 


37 


13 


14 


19 


36 


17 


12 


21 


40 


17 


16 


20 


36 


15 


15 




29 




12 
13 
15 


21 


34 


18 


14 


21 


32 


18 


13 


18 




15 




14 








20 


29 


17 


12 


17 




18 


11 


21 


d>3 


18 


14 


21 


2,2, 


18 


15 


21 


31 


17 


14 


20 


29 


16 


12 


21 


32 


16 


12 



308 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



The questionnaire was sent to four groups of women. 

Group I. Middle-aged women, not college graduates, intensely in- 
terested in their homes, who have brought up famihes of children who 
are now making a successful start in the world for themselves. Nine of 
these woman are members, several of them charter members, of a Mothers' 
Club that for fifteen years has been discussing questions akin to this. 

Group II. Graduates of Hberal arts colleges, married and having 
from one to four children. 

Group III. Married graduates of college home economics courses. 

Group IV. Unmarried women, nine of the sixteen college graduates, 
owning and making very attractive homes of their own. This group 
is interesting in contrast to an earher type of "strong-minded" women 
who were supposed to crave freedom from the petty cares of the home. 
These women have dehberately assumed these petty cares and by no 
means petty expenses of homes of their own. 

Shall emphasis in chemistry and economics be on principles or ap- 
plications? 80 answers (applications — 50, principles — 19, equal empha- 
sis— 11). 

Shall emphasis in hterature and fine arts be on history or appreciation} 
79 answers, (appreciation — 57, equal emphasis — 18, history — 4). 



ADDED SUBJECTS 

Home nursing 17 

Field study of birds, flowers, rocks, stars 20 

Music 15 

Bible 14 

Business administration and accounts 22 

Vegetable and flower gardening 11 

Laundry work 4 

Current events 7 

Textiles 1 

Papering and painting 11 

Penmanship 1 



GROUPS SUGGESTING 


I 




III 


I 




III 






III 


I 






I 






I 




III 


I 


II 


III 
III 


I 







IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 

IV 

IV 
IV 



The following points in the marking are of interest: 

1. Wea\dng, dyeing, Latin, German, French, use of tools, were not 
considered important by 60 per cent of any group. 

2. Millinery, botany, bacteriology, education, ethics, economics, and 
sociology were considered important by 60 per cent of one group only. 

3. Cooking, sewing, physical care of children, mental development 
of children, games and stories for children, physiology, hygiene and 



1917] COLLEGE COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 309 

physical training, dietetics, house planning and sanitation, house manage- 
ment, English, history, and fine arts, were considered important by 67 
per cent or more of all the groups. 

Certain extracts from letters received with the questionnaire express 
better than any survey of the marking the needs these women feel in 
their homemaking. All conmients received from the graduates of 
the home economics course are given, for these graduates are critics 
who should be just. 

" If I were planning home economics courses, I would omit much of textiles, 
etc., and get right at the child business. This conclusion is reached not only 
through my own experience but is based on observations of all my acquaint- 
ances. Women do not know how to care for themselves or their babies after 
the babies arrive — and they do not know how to train children from a phy- 
sical or ethical standpoint. In this age of quickly changing fashions, a knowl- 
edge of sewing is a useful but dangerous thing. It usurps the place of higher, 
freer things. Sewing is my besetting sin. If I never did any, my family 
would be happier." 

"I believe the instruction in chemistry should be along the line of appli- 
cation. There is a failure on the part of teachers in the home economics 
courses to make the students think through situations in terms of present day 
home life." 

"A sick baby has almost prevented my answering but I am interested and 
stealing time — home nursing should certainly be added to these subjects." 

"I think there should be more actual practice in cooking and sewing. 
They should be taught through the grades, high school and college. I don't 
underestimate the value of teaching scientific facts and the theory of cooking, 
but I believe the graduate from the domestic science course has not had enough 
practice to be as efficient as she should be in cooking and serving entire 
meals and planning balanced rations — and I believe that a girl should be able 
to make all her clothes except tailored suits. 

"There is special need of adding child study to the course." 

"I think the emphasis in chemistry should by all means be upon appli- 
cations; and as much time be spent upon history as possible." 

" I should add home nursing and gardening — both vegetable and flower — 
but with especial attention to planning the lawn and the flower garden." 

"I do not see the advantage of spending hours testing different kinds of 
sugar, baking powder, soap, cleansing fluids. Few homes are turned into 
testing laboratories. I want to be told which is best and why." 

"After experience in teaching home economics and later in homemaking, 
I believe that after a girl has had good high school training she should give 
her attention to learning to run a home. At present the greatest lack is in 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

the subjects relating to the care of children. I mean definite iriformation 
about clothing and feeding, the necessities and how to provide them." 

"I should have one course to include all small useful arts and practical 
home suggestions, such as dyeing (old clothes), use of tools, cleaning clothes, 
fine laundry, papering and painting, and plumbing." 

Extracts from letters from graduates of liberal colleges follow. 

"I should not wish to omit anything I took in college. My only regret 
is that I could not also have studied chemistry as applied to foods. I have 
always needed the humanities and I value particularly what I know of all 
language, history, and literature. At present I am giving myself a course 
in stories for children — games later. I can do it better for my classics." — 
Radcliffe — one child. 

"I often think I might have had much better preparation for homemaking 
and that I would send J. to a different preparation — but yet I would not 
give up the spirit that one gets in a college for liberal arts, meaning more ideal- 
istic things than are the scientific. One-haK or more than that of one's 
effort in college ought, I believe, to be given to the things of the mind and 
spirit. I beheve that a woman who has to tend children and do household 
work needs to be very strong physically. So physical training I should in- 
sist on. Some training as a nurse seems terribly important to me, and real, 
extended experience in cooking and cleaning would have been of great help 
to me." — Radcliffe — three children. 

"I have not marked anything "d" because a housewife and homemaker 
can make use of a great many kinds of knowledge. Some not mentioned here 
would be useful, landscape gardening, floriculture, home nursing. One home- 
maker might make a great deal out of history, Latin, and music in her home 
while another would make much of weaving. Individual tastes should be 
recognised and plenty of room given to electives after a few essentials are taken 
care of. The child study is important, but I cannot help thinking that a 
course that opens the way to further study is better than a more thorough 
one. Child study will become one of the homemaker's graduate lines of 
work." — Michigan — three children. 

''The girl who has learned Latin and history will learn in a little while to 
wash blankets and pickle beef. And she'll have something to give her children 
that she might not have had, had she devoted herseff exclusively to the con- 
templation of the beef." — Radcliffe — one child. 

To get a comparison of the needs expressed by these women with the 
work given in the college home economics course, a summary has been 



1917] COLLEGE COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 311 

made of home economics courses in four of our leading colleges.^ The 
most noticeable differences between the subjects considered important 
by the women in their homes and those required in the college curricu- 
la are these: 

1. Literature, history, and fine arts are considered "indispensable" 
or "important" by women in their homes. 

In one of the four college courses no literature is required. 

In two of the four college courses no history is required. 

In all four courses design is the only requirement in fine arts. 

2. Science (theory and principles) is not considered "indispensable" 
or "important" by w^omen in their homes. 

In the four college courses science (theory and principles) makes up 
from 17 to 47 per cent of the required work. 

3. Care of children is asked for by 80 per cent of the four groups. 
Care of children is asked for by all women in groups I and III. 

In the four college courses it is not required except as it enters into a 
half year course in humanics in one of them. 

The essential difference might be stated in this way: 

Women in their homes feel the need of subjects dealing with health 
(physiology group), with human relationships and human effort (care 
of children, and EngKsh, history, fine arts groups), mth skill in hand 
work (cooking and sewing), with the appUcations of science to house- 
work (house planning, sanitation, management and dietetics). The 
college course concerns itself first of all with the theory and principles 
of the sciences underlying housekeeping, next with their appHcations, 
less with the actual handwork, adequately with health subjects, not 
adequately with human relationships and human effort, and not at all 
with the care of children. 

It may be argued that every college leaves a considerable number of 
hours — a, rough average of one-third of its credits — for elective work. 

8 This summary has been omitted for lack of space. 

The summaries in this article were made from the college bulletins of 1913-1914. In 
the bulletins of 1916-1917 some changes appear in the number of points allowed for dififer- 
ent subjects, but the only changes affecting the present discussion are these: 

In one college a year of Continental European or United States History has been added to 
the required subjects. 

In another, a year in the History and Appreciation of Fine Arts has been required of girls 
preparing to teach domestic art. 

In another, psychology has been required of girls taking the course of household and in- 
stitutional management. 



312 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

But the elective work very often leads parallel to, not away from, the 
main line of required Vv^ork. I had an opportunity to see the choice 
of electives of a class of twenty girls graduating a few years ago from one 
of these courses. Out of the twenty girls, eight elected nothing in Eng- 
lish, history, or fine arts, and six elected one course in one of those subjects. 

CONCLUSION 

The problem of the curriculum that trains for homemaking is to find 
subjects and methods of teaching that will make human relationships 
first healthful, and then radiant. It must contain much of the spiritual 
and humane. The underlying subjects must deal with physical health. 
Then should come the training of the hands so that the woman in charge 
of the home may do the necessary work with an artistry that brings its 
own pleasure. More time should be given to the appHcations of science 
than to principles or theories, and much attention should be paid to 
scientific management that compares time, labor, and money costs in 
household methods. Already by fastening its attention on daily house- 
work and emphasizing labor saving devices and short cut methods 
through drudgery, the course has done much to perfect and to dignify 
the necessary manual processes in housekeeping. This work should go 
on with increasing impetus. 

The experiment station could be as valuable in the advancement of 
scientific housekeeping as it has proved to be in scientific agriculture 
and should be a part of the college of home economics. Scattered 
here and there through the country are some experimental house- 
holds. The college departments of home economics have their prac- 
tice cottages. But the arrangement of kitchen, pantries, and store 
rooms in relation to the rest of the house and to the time consumed in 
the daily care of the family needs time and motion studies in the best 
methods devised by scientific management. Every separate piece of 
work that is part of the daily routine of housework needs the same at- 
tention. When we know the kitchen plan that allows the preparation 
and clearing away of meals with the least time and energy, when we know 
the fewest possible movements that will make a perfect bed, learning 
these things will have the same relation to learning to make a home that 
five finger exercises have to the study of the pianoforte. 

Planning the family budget must lay its roots in economics, sociol- 
ogy, and ethics quite as much as in food values, sanitation, and textiles. 
Preparation for the leisure of the family and for activity in interests 
outside the home must recognize that both the leisure and the activity 



1917] COLLEGE COUESE IN HOME ECONOMICS 313 

are more satisfactory because of the appreciative study of history, 
music, art, and literature. 

Securing helpful service in the household demands abihty to demon- 
strate the best methods of housework, enthusiasm for these methods, 
understanding of the fimdamental difficulties in this problem of domestic 
service, and human sympathy enough to comprehend the solution so 
well summarized b)' Miss Roelofs in her first report of the Commission 
on Household Emplo>Tnent at the National Convention of Y. W. C. A. 
in 1915. She sums up the answers to the question "Can you suggest 
any way in which more fine girls can be persuaded to enter domestic 
service?" in these words "Regulate the hours and treat them as fine 
girls." 

There is no danger of over emphasis on efiicient methods in house- 
work by our home economics courses. The danger is that we rest our 
minds there instead of driving them on to relate efiicient methods to 
the ultimate values of homemaking. The natural result is a course 
planned as if homemaking were a trade or a profession, when it is in 
essence a fine art. In the state-aided homemaking schools of Massa- 
chusetts, the appHcation blank for teachers interrogates them as to their 
past "trade experience." To have managed a tea room or to have been 
"superintendent, supervisor, or foreman" in a dressmaking establish- 
ment is to give "presumption of fitness." The college departments of 
home economics, on the other hand, believe that homem.aking is a pro- 
fession and their belief has had the result of dignifying the studies that 
lead to a ^^ise selection and preparation of food and clothing. 

But is there not a distinction between the trades, the professions, 
and the fine arts, which wiU serve- as a basis for the contention that really 
significant instruction will be given only when homemaking is looked 
on as a fine art? In the trades we concern ourselves with what can be 
successfully accomplished by skill of hand. In the professions, most 
deHcate skill of hand may be necessary as in the case of the surgeon, 
but success depends on the power of the mind to make severe and sus- 
tained efi'ort. In the fine arts, skill of hand is necessary, power of in- 
tellect no less so, but success comes only when both are driven to their 
work by the emotions. 

We shall give only the second best so long as we plan the home eco- 
nomics course as if manual dexterity were the chief concern ; or as if the 
fundamental basis of the home were a capacity for clear, analytic think- 
ing best trained by knowledge of the sciences and drill in laboratory 
methods. We shall give the best only when we recognize that here, as 



314 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

in every art, the need is "to bring reason and proportion into the life 
of the emotions." Skill of hand may but multiply our cushions and 
doilies and provide a needless profusion of food. Power of intellect 
will go further and may in time balance our rations so that indigestion 
will be unknown. The Apsley Cookery Book with its recipes for uric- 
acid-free diet clears Mrs. Webster and Mrs. Llewellyn from Nietzsche's 
charge: "Woman does not know what food means, and she insists on 
being cook! If woman had been a thinking creature, she should cer- 
tainly, as cook for thousands of years, have discovered the most impor- 
tant physiological facts and should likewise have got possession of the 
healing art. Through bad female cooks the progress of mankind has 
been longest retarded and most interfered with. Even to-day things 
are little better." 

But good digestion waiting on appetite and health on both will not 
always keep homes from shipwreck, nor can they establish children in 
those yet undisputed essentials of culture, "courage to be what we are, 
the love of what is simple and beautiful, independence, and cheerful 
relation." For this consummation the aim of homemaking must be 
the aim of the arts — to give happiness of a noble sort. What Tennyson 
and Ruskin wrote of their mother's training and the tribute Emerson 
paid to the aunt who made her home with them in his boyhood show 
that these great ethical idealists felt that women's hands had made them 
what they were.^ The mother's conception of the kind of character 
needed in the world is her artist's vision; and just as the artist's power 
is a complex of manual skill, scientific knowledge, love of beauty, and the 
ability to see beauty in all the relations of human life, so the genius of 
the homemaker must be wrought of the same stuff. 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 

Effie I. Raitt 

Head oj Department oj Home Economics 

Five years ago the College of Liberal Arts of the University of Wash- 
ington was divided to form a College of Liberal Arts and a College of Sci- 

' Isabel, Alfred Tennyson. 

Fors Clavigera, John Ruskin, Letter 42. 

Ralph Waldo Emerson, Lectures and Biographical Sketches, Mary Moody Emerson. 

Life of Ralph Waldo Emerson, James Cabot, Vol. 1, p. 30. 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS AT UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 315 

ence. Both colleges claimed home economics — Liberal Arts because it 
is essentially a social science, and the College of Science because of its 
close relation to the physical and biological sciences. It rested with 
the department to decide. What seemed at first a difficult matter be- 
came an impossible one when the effort was made to separate from either. 
The result was that a major in home economics was offered in the College 
of Liberal Arts on exactly the same basis as any other subject in the 
College and leading to the bachelor of arts degree. Two courses were 
offered in the College of Science, one a major and the other a prescribed 
course for teaching. 

In spite of unfavorable housing conditions the Department had a 
steady growth. Two years ago the demand for a University Commons 
became so great that in 1914-15 an old building was brought into use 
and a Commons was estabHshed as an activity of the Home Economics 
Department. It was soon evident that a real need was being met in 
furnishing clean nutritious food at a reasonable cost. It served its 
purpose for the Home Economics Department as well, in affording a 
valuable laboratory in large quantity cooking and in institutional man- 
agement. Students here gained something of an appreciation of the 
requirements and the commercial value of such work in the business world 

The next year the dormitories, of which there are two, came under 
the control of the Department. The manager of the Commons became 
director of the dormitories while one of the instructors in home eco- 
nomics was made social head of the dormitory for women. It was this 
year also that a very attractive five-room cottage on the campus became 
available and was secured for a home economics practice cottage. It 
was, however, unfurnished and the University could not provide any 
funds for the purpose. While it seemed somewhat daring to attempt 
to furnish it, with the only resources $50 dollars in the treasury of the 
Home Economics Club, the matter was put to a vote of the students and 
unanimously and enthusiastically the decision was made to take the 
cottage and to make, to beg, and to borrow what was needed to make 
it usable. Students of the home decoration class energetically set to 
work and made cheese cloth curtains, dyed imbleached muslin for hang- 
ings, scraped and refinished old furniture, covered with cretonne the 
chairs that would not fit the color scheme, painted beds, and made com- 
forters. Interested friends were generous with gifts and loans, and by 
the second semester the cottage was ready for its family of three stu- 
dents and their house guest, the instructor. The students feel real 
ownership; they make their own program, division of work, decide upon 



316 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS tjuly 

the amount to be expended and the hospitality to be offered. At the 
end of the stay of two weeks in the cottage, each group hands in to the 
office a detailed report including accounts, menus, with costs, method 
of housekeeping, and time involved. It has been possible to rent the 
cottage during the summer and Christmas hoHdays to pay for the up- 
keep. The most recent addition made by our good friends is a piano, 
the one thing lacking heretofore to make the "home" perfect. 

The new $150,000 Home Economics Building was completed in Sep- 
tember, 1915. It is the first building to be erected in the proposed 
hberal arts quadrangle; the second building to be known as Commerce 
Hall is now in course of construction. Both are 200 by 70 feet in di- 
mensions and three stories high. The architecture is most attractive. 
It is Tudor Gothic in style and throughout remains true to type even 
to the grotesques under the eaves. These form an interesting feature. 
In the Home Economics Building they represent activities related to 
the home. One is a woman wasliing, another a woman arranging flowers, 
a woman testing food, a woman using a chemical retort, a woman sew- 
ing, and over the main entrance a mother and child. The building 
is of brick and terra cqtta. The bricks are of very rough texture with 
varying tones of tans and reddish brown. The terra cotta is a warm 
buff. The window trim and the slate of the roof is a lovely soft green 
that serves to bring out the rich tones of the rest of the building. The 
ground floor is occupied by the Commons, the banquet room, and locker 
rooms large enough to accommodate seven hundred lockers. On the 
second floor are the general offices, a room for the use of the faculty wo- 
men, a social room for women students, private dining room and practice 
kitchen, three food laboratories, two of which are equipped at present, 
a dietetics laboratory, and recitation rooms. An office is connected with 
every laboratory. 

The food laboratories are equipped for eighteen, and desks are of two 
different heights so that both short and tall students can work to good 
advantage. One feature of these laboratories is the desks in which a 
large drawer 1 1 inches deep takes the place of the usual drawer and cup- 
board, and does away with all stooping. This is made possible by the 
use of the sides of the drawer for holding utensils. Inside in the front is 
a rack for knives, forks, spatula, spoons, and eggbeater; on one side are 
hooks for hanging small utensils ; on the other side is a cleat for holding 
pie pans and covers. This leaves the bottom of the drawer free for sauce 
pans, bowls, and double boiler. Below is a shelf with a drop door for 
dishpans, soap, and brushes. Another feature of the laboratory is a 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS AT UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 317 

towel dryer, metal lined, and furnished with two frames weighted to 
move up and down like a double hung window. These frames are fur- 
nished with steel rods on which the towels are himg. They are then 
pushed up out of sight and near the steam pipes where towels dry 
quickly. 

On the third floor are the clothing, textile, design, and laundry lab- 
oratories, and the library and recitation rooms. The clothing labora- 
tories have drawer lockers which fit in cases in the walls. The clothing 
laboratories are provided with tables for these drawers in which the stu- 
dents place them during class hours. At the end of the period they are 
slipped into the case in the wall and locked. The textile laboratory 
has a set of chemistry tables for twenty-four students as well as pro- 
vision for making physical tests and for dyeing. The laundry has laun- 
dry trays, again at varying heights, and a set of Chicago dryers. 

This year an entire reorganization of the courses given has been made 
necessary by the large development of the work, the growth of the De- 
partment, and the demand for women trained for specific work other 
than teaching. There are now five definite curricula which may be 
followed by the home economics student. 

Group I. General Curriculum, designed for students who desire a 
Liberal college training with emphasis upon the things pertaining to the 
home and home life. Those who are interested in social betterment and 
who wish to enter definite welfare work may combine home economics, 
economics and sociology in this curriculum. Opportunity is here af- 
forded to select work that will prepare for interior decorating by choosing 
courses in textiles, home decoration, and fine arts. 

Group II. For Dietitians in Hospitals and Sanitaria. To prepare 
for laboratory or research work and for those students who wish to 
specialize for the purpose of teaching this phase of the work in institu- 
tions of higher education. 

Group III. Teachers' Curriculum. This group combines some lib- 
eral arts subjects with all phases of home economics and its supporting 
courses in other departments. It is especially arranged to meet, in the 
most efficient manner, the particular needs of home economics teachers 
in Washington high schools. Practice teaching in the Seattle Schools 
extending through one semester is required. 

Group IV. Institutional Management. This work has been devel- 
oped into a full four year course with work in the fundamental sciences 
and many of the business courses given in the School of Commerce. 
The special work in the Home Economics Department consists of large 



318 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Quly 

quantity cookery, buying, and dietaries, practice work in the Commons, 
and practice work in some down-town institution which may be a de- 
partment store, tea room, a cafeteria, a school lunch room or a hospital. 

Group V. Textile and Non-Textile Merchandise. This course has 
grown out of many conferences with merchants and after a sufficient 
survey of the fields to show the demand for the trained woman in mer- 
cantile extablishments. The Northwest offers unusual opportunities 
for the development of this fine of work because of its willingness to try 
out new projects. The course will include textiles; a study of non- tex- 
tile merchandise such as rubber, leather, paper, glass; clothing; sales- 
manship; and practice work for two semesters in department stores. 
The School of Commerce will contribute to this course in such courses 
as accounting, commercial geography, economic history, and business 
organization. 

Extension work first offered three years ago has carried the work to 
the women in their own homes through short courses, single lectures, 
and conferences. This phase of the work has made remarkable progress 
and has met with the heartiest response. The culminating point of 
the year is the Housekeepers' Conference of a week's duration which is 
given on the campus and is attended by increasing numbers. 

The development of the home economics work at the University of 
Washington has to a large extent been made possible by the generous 
treatment at the hands of the other departments and of the adminis- 
'tration. The Department of Chemistry through the work in physio- 
logical, food, and textile chemistry; the Department of Physics through 
the work of physics in the home; the Department of Zoology through 
physiology and botany in the microscopy of foods and of fibers, offer 
abundant and hearty support to the work. The same response coines 
from Fine Arts, Economics, and Sociology. These Departments not 
only ofi'er the courses requested but modify them to suit the needs of 
home economics students. 

While the scientific and artistic basis is felt to be of the greatest im- 
portance, the danger of becoming merely academic has been guarded 
against by following laboratory work with practical experience in every 
field. The homemakers have their practice in the cottage, students of 
food preparation in the Commons. The final course in clothing re- 
quires a student to work for a customer who pays for the work and so 
must be assured value for money expended. The business courses in 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS AND THE COMMUNITY CENTER 319 

institutional management and textile and non-textile merchandise will 
carry their work into commercial and philanthropic institutions. 

The inspiration gained from the meeting of the National Convention 
at the University of Washington in 1915 has been of lasting benefit. 



HOME ECONOMICS AND THE COMMUNITY CENTER 

JOHN COLLIER 

Director, Training School for Community Workers, New York, and President, National 
Conference of Community Centers 

The writer is densely ignorant about home economics, although he 
is in a vague way sure that the subject is more important than any other, 
a statement which is literally intended, as will be justified below. 

The writer believes too that community centers need home economics, 
and vice versa. 

There are thousands of community centers and no complete ones. 
Any activity that exists, not for its specialized aims only, but for some 
wider communal aim as well, and is freely accessible to the plain people, 
is entitled to call itself a community center. The development of com- 
munity centers is focalizing in school buUdings, Hbraries, and park 
houses; the supremely important community center establishment will 
be in the public school. The pubHc school community center may begin 
as night schools or recreation centers or forums, working outward toward 
generalized human interests and toward neighborhood relationships, 
or it may begin with a day school,' working out from there toward com- 
munity relationships. Of the former type the Harrison Technical 
High School in Chicago might be quoted as an example, of the latter 
type the Locust Point School of Baltimore is almost a model. 

The school community centers in New York City alone, not counting 
the day schools of the Gary type, are more than one hundred in number, 
and more than half of these have been democratized to the point that 
they meet their own local administrative costs and govern themselves 
through local instrumentalities of one kind or another. 

Where community centers begin — whether with the point of interest 
of motion pictures and dances, or of forums and study clubs, or under- 
nourished children, or astronomy classes in the evening center — has 



320 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

only a local circumstantial importance. All roads may lerA to Rome; 
all interests may lead to the community. 

Where the community center ends can be stated through the experi- 
ence of hundreds of cases. It does not end mth mere amusement or 
mere talk nor yet with the mere study of formal questions or the mere 
ministration to concrete human needs. The community center which 
stops at any of these points either dies out or falls back on the paternal- 
ism of the state or of private charity for its sustenance or leadership. 

This statement is of course very general and admits of scores of 
exceptions, but is a distillation of impressions received from observing 
hundreds of cases. 

Where then does the community center end? Very simply — the 
successful community center results in a new kind of relationship 
between the plain people and the serious constructive concerns of Ufe. 
It results in a new kind of relationship between the people and the police, 
or between the people and the health nurse, or between the people and 
the system by which goods are marketed, or between the people and the 
purveyor of knowledge, whether teacher or preacher. The real com- 
munity center is a taking over by the people of some measure of their 
own destiny. 

The people vaguely know that destinies are being made today. The 
destinies of homes are being made— some new duties are being forced 
on the home and many old duties are being taken away from it. The 
destinies of communities and nations are being made. We are recon- 
sidering everything from the method of taxation to the last detailed 
policy which governs the use of tax money. But "We," at present, 
hardly represent the people. The people simply know that great and 
upsetting things are afoot, and whether it be in the intimate domestic 
circle or in the arena of nations, the people are pawns and onlookers. 
It is not designing leaders, wise or unwise, who are making the destinies, 
but the unconscious evolutions of social mechanisms. 

The community center is an attempt to enable the people to take some 
conscious part in this making of destinies, and it is succeeding because 
the people want to take part. 

Now, among the environments to which life has to adjust itself, 
among the environments which, in requiring adjustment, create life, 
the intimate local environment must continue to be the most efiEicacious. 
It comes first, it is the dominant environment through those years when 
personaHty is being made and the Hmits of hope and fear are being set, 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS AND THE COMMUNITY CENTER 321 

when the basic affections are taking direction and the human soul is 
for good or ill being unchangeably determined. 

Home economics has everything to do at least with this intimate local 
environment, however great its indirect bearings on the larger world 
questions may be. Of the thousand experiences that rain in on a child 
and on a family group, are not most of them capable of being illumi- 
nated, of being given psychic value, through the ministrations of home 
economics? 

It does not follow that those who receive a teaching of home economics 
in school are able to make their experience at home a living and creative 
one. Unfortunately, most school experiences are not translatable by 
the child into every-day experience ; his going into school means a pass- 
ing into a land of dreams. If he tries to carry his dreams or his person- 
ality as affected by these dreams back into his home, he becomes simply 
an unadjusted child. Most children have too much sense of reality to 
make any such effort. This is the pathetic waste of school teaching, 
a waste which becomes more complete, not as we pass toward the ab- 
stract end, but as we pass toward the concrete end of the school curric- 
ulum as now administered in the typical school of the scholastic type. 

What has aU this to do with the cormnunity center question? A 
coramunity center as it becomes mature is seen to be a means for bringing 
the people in family groups and small intimate groups and in every-day 
relations into touch with science, politics, government, social experi- 
ence, human achievement. They are brought into contact, not only 
or primarily through exhibitions and lectures, but through new kinds 
of activities — activities which reproduce the brother-sister and parent- 
child relation in that larger environment which is the only possible other 
place, outside the dwindling home, where childhood with its elders can 
get into contact with the realties of the world. 

The community center is groping for the leadership which wiU show 
it how to point the activities of its members in directions at once prac 
ticable and psychically satisfying. The specialist in home economics 
is one of the three or four kinds of speciaHsts who can meet this urgent 
need. 

On the other side, home economics, traveling down the corridor of 
scholastic isolation, has reached the end of the passage, and many teach- 
ers of home economics know it. The community center proposes to 
knock out the end of the passage and to give the home economics worker 
an opportunity to function in the real — the socially and psychically 
real — world. 



322 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

HELPING A COMMUNITY TO CONSERVE 

FLORENCE E. BROOKINS 
In Charge Rural Home Economics Department, Iowa State Teachers College 

Every home economics teacher is asking herself today, "How can I 
best aid in my community in the national movement toward food con- 
servation?" It may be suggestive to those who are seeking a reply to 
this question to know how the Rural Home Economics Department of 
the Iowa State Teachers College is answering it. 

Early in April a county-wide campaign was planned in the interest 
of the canning club movement for boys and girls in Blackhawk County, 
Iowa, in which this college is located. Demonstrations in the cold pack 
method of canning were suggested for every school in the county. The 
one-room and consoHdated schools in one- third of this county are 
affihated with the Teachers College for mutual help and the training of 
rural teachers. Thus 33 one-room and 2 consolidated schools in this 
county, as well as a large consolidated school in an adjoining one, looked 
to the College for help in this movement. 

The College as a whole responded generously to the demand. The 
three instructors in the rural home economics department were released 
for one week from their classes, their places being filled by the other 
teachers of home economics or by senior students. Eight girls from the 
senior class in domestic science were excused to assist these instructors, 
and the member of the United States Department of Agriculture de- 
tailed to assist in the campaign. A personal letter from the President 
of the College was sent to each resident in the territory afl&liated with 
the school, inviting her attendance at the demonstration in her district. 
The cars of the members of the rural department and of several farmer? 
interested in the movement were freely loaned for the whole week. 
Finally, the kitchen equipment of the College was lent to these demon- 
strators, and the school laboratories were thrown open to all who were 
to work in the county, for the initial conference of the campaign. 

During the week of demonstration the weather was typical of April 
so that the roads became heavy, but, though some daily trips of as great 
a distance as ninety-seven miles were necessary, the demonstrators 
were able to fulfill their entire schedule. As a result at the end of the 
week, thirty-nine demonstrations in the canning of a fruit, a vegetable, 
and a green, by the cold pack method had been given; an aggregate num- 
ber of 1720 persons had been in attendance; and twenty-six canning 



1917] HELPING A COMMUNITY TO CONSERVE 323 

clubs, principally of the "mother-daughter" type and comprising a 
total membership of 482 persons, had been formed, each with its local 
leader. 

On the Saturday following this campaign these club leaders and the 
demonstrators, together with all the other demonstrators and leaders 
from the rest of the county, met once more at the College laboratory 
where the newly appointed club leaders practiced canning so as to be 
able to train demonstration teams in their clubs. From their number 
committees were also appointed that arranged uniform club programs 
for the season, prescribed local and county exhibits, and designated 
awards of merit to be given at the closing program at the College next 
December. 

This is only the beginning of the work. While this article is being 
written a time schedule of the monthly meetings of these organizations 
is being made so that no tw^o will occur simultaneously. This will 
enable one of the instructors in rural home economics to be present 
throughout the summer and fall at each meeting of every club, to assist 
members, to maintain interest and to carry enthusiasm from one club 
to another. 

This is a brief summary of what one domestic science department is 
doing to aid in food conservation. The task which has been undertaken 
is a heavy one, but the enthusiasm which the community has shown is 
very great. It has responded before to calls for united action in less 
serious crises, and no anxiety is felt that it will respond less successfully 
in the present one. 

Though the home economics teachers in our high schools and small 
colleges could, of course, not undertake so comprehensive an organiza- 
tion, they could undoubtedly each form and guide one club of five or 
more members. If every home economics instructor should organize 
and direct such a club in the coming season the work of all these 
clubs would have a noticeable effect on food conservation. 



324 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

FOOD REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDREN 

LUCY H. GILLETT 

New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 

The observation of food consumption during certain periods of growth 
has raised the question as to whether the allowances for the food re- 
quirement of children as expressed in terms of man as a unit are adequate. 
The New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 
realized the importance of this question in their relief work and arranged 
for a survey and compilation of such evidence as would throw any light 
on the subject.* 

All of the available literature pertaining to the subject has been re- 
viewed and from this material the results of 563 observations and ex- 
periments were selected and compiled as the best evidence on record upon 
which to base judgment. Each of the experiments selected was per- 
formed on healthy and moderately well nourished children, who, so far 
as could be judged, were growing normally at the time of observation. 

Where necessary the experiments were recalculated to a common 
basis for purposes of comparison, they were then tabulated, and summar- 
ized under three different headings according to the age of the child and 
the type of data as follows: 

1 . Two hundred and twenty-three dietary observation studies which 
are a measure of the amount of food which a healthy child will eat when 
allowed a freely chosen diet, and which will at the same time maintain 
a normal weight and provide for normal growth. 

2. One hundred and thirty-one metaboHsm or balance experiments 
which are more significant of the utiHzation of food because of the record 
of nitrogen balance. In judging the adequacy of food for growth oi 
children, it is essential to know that the amount of nitrogen stored is 
in proportion to the gain in weight, because of the possibiHty that the 
increase in weight may be due to a retention of water or an abnormal 
storage of fat, 

3. Two hundred and nine respiration experiments by which it is pos- 
sible to obtain the most accurate measure of the energy expenditure of 
the body at the exact time of the observation. Of the respiration ex- 
periments only such as were a measure of basal requirements have been 
included. To make this basal figure comparable with dietary and metab- 

Food Allowances for Healthy Children. Bulletin, A. I. C. P. 



1917] 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDREN 



325 



olism experiments the basal "rate" was doubled to allow for growth and 
activity. Experiments on young adults who had completed their 
growth, and on very young infants who were active at the time of ob- 
servation, seemed to justify this assumption. 

The requirements of children as represented by the three t>pes of 
data agree fairly well for each age, although there are wdde variations. 
It is not possible to give all of the results here, but an average of the three 
types of data when tabulated and charted by sex and age seemed con- 
sistent enough for drawing conclusions. It is deplorable that there is 
so Httle data concerning the amount of food needed by growing children 
of certain ages, especially among the girls. For the second year there 
are only two somewhat incomplete experiments for girls and none for 
boys; and after the fourteenth year there is practically nothing that can 
be called at all conclusive concerning the food requirements of girls. 

The difference between requirements for boys and girls was so marked 
from the beginning of the third year that it seemed much more reasonable 
to make a distinction between the sexes from this time on. From a 
study of the data the following food allowances for each year of the child's 
life have been deduced and are shown in the following table : 

Food allowances for children^ 



AGE 


BOYS 


GIRLS 


years 


calories per day 


calories per day 


Under 2 


900-1200 


900-1200 


2-3 


1000-1300 


980-1280 


3-4 


1100-1400 


1060-1360 


4-5 


1200-1500 


1140-1440 


5-6 


1300-1600 


1220-1520 


6-7 


1400-1700 


1300-1600 


7-8 


1500-1800 


1380-1680 


8-9 


1600-1900 


1460-1760 


9-10 


1700-2000 


1550-1850 


10-11 


1900-2200 


1650-1950 


11-12 


2100-2400 


1750-2050 


12-13 


2300-2700 


1850-2150 


13-14 


2500-2900 


1950-2250 


14r-15 


2600-3100 


2050-2350 


15-16 


2700-3300 


2150-2450 


16-17 


2700-3400 


2250-2550 



^ Prof. H. C. Sherman of Columbia University cooperated in the selection and interpreta- 
tion of the data, and in formulating the suggested food allowances. 



326 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Since the amount of food required increases not only with age but also 
with size and activity, it seems much fairer to the indi-vidual cliild to 
state a range of from 300 to 600 calories for each age to allow for indi- 
vidual variations. 

According to these present allowances each estimate is based on the 
amount of food actually eaten by boys and girls of that particular age, 
and, since the three types of experiments included in the compilation 
showed fairly consistent results, it is felt that the conclusions furnished 
a more adequate basis for food allowances for children than has been 
available hitherto. As Prof. H. C. Sherman has pointed out in Chem- 
istry of Food and Nutrition, it is hardly just to the child to base his 
requirement on that of the father, since the food requirement of the man 
varies so greatly according to his occupation. 



GOUCHER COLLEGE PREPAREDNESS PLEDGE^ 

To respond to my country's need I hereby pledge to prepare myself 
physically, mentally, and so far as possible, specifically, for usefulness. 

I-. PHYSICAL PREPAREDNESS 

In order to develop my physical capacities to their fullest extent I 
will sincerely pay proper attention to exercise, diet, sleep, dress, and 
personal habits. 

I will take at least one hour of regular exercise each day whether in 
the gymnasium, in recreation, or at manual labor. 

I will endeavor to form correct habits as to diet, abstain from eating 
needlessly between meals, ascertain under college medical advice what 
my physical condition should be and train accordingly. 

I will sleep approximately eight hours every night, retiring as early 
after ten o'clock as is compatible with reasonable duties or engagements, 
sleeping with the windows of my room wide open, on a sleeping porch, 
or in the open air. 

I will wear simple clothing, paying due regard to the laws of hygiene, 
to habits of neatness, and to economy and serviceableness. 

1 This pledge has also been adopted at Mt. Holyoke and, slightly modified, at Wellesley. 
It is under consideration at Vassar. 



1917] GOUCHER COLLEGE PREPAREDNESS PLEDGE 327 

I will put into practice what I know to be correct as to personal 
habits, keeping my room and all places over which I have control clean 
and in orderly arrangement. 

In all of the foregoing I recognize the expediency as well as the prac- 
ticability of a regime that emphasizes regularity, persistence, and will- 
ingness to profit from the wisdom and experience of others. 

n. MENTAL PREPAREDNESS 

In order that I may be informed as to the causes of the war, its prog- 
ress, the changes that have come in the reasons why the nations are at 
war, particularly why the United States is forced to engage therein, I 
will attend the eight or ten lectures to be given by the History Depart- 
ment of Goucher College, and will read something every day either in 
newspapers, periodicals, or books, recognized as supporting the pohcy 
of our government. 

m. SPECIFIC PREPAREDNESS 

In addition to preparing myself physically and mentally, as above 
set forth, I will conscientiously take account of my own fitness and in- 
cHnations and give myself over to specific training offered by some one 
of the departments of Goucher College. I will give this time outside 
of my regular class room and laboratory duties. I will be loyal and 
faithful in this regard and will do all in my power to stimulate the loyalty 
and faithfulness of my fellow students. I will undertake this specific 
preparedness willingly and enthusiastically, thankful for the opportunity 
it gives me to respond to my country's caU. 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE EMERGENCY COMMITTEE OF THE A. H. E. A. 
reports the following activities to date: 

1. One person in each state has been asked to act as state chairman, 
so that we would have a local representative. Each chairman exercises 
her own discretion as to forming a state section or local sections. In 
states where the emergency work is well organized, no A. H. E. A. 
section is necessary. Wherever possible the state leader is our chair- 
man. Twenty-eight have formally accepted. 

2. The chairman was called to Washington by the Women's Com- 
mittee of the Council of National Defense and asked (as representing 
the Emergency Committee) to serve them in an advisory capacity on 
home economics. They asked for a Hst of women, one from each state, 
who would make good "food commissioners" under Mr. Hoover. The 
state chairmen were asked to make recommendation. All have not 
been heard from, but the list was made almost complete in a small in- 
formal conference of some members of the Emergency Committee held in 
Washington June 2, as it was deemed advisable to give the tentative list 
to the Women's Committee at once. 

3. The Emergency Committee plans no future activity on its own 
initiative, but will continue to put inquirers into touch with the local 
chairmen. It is ready, with a representative in each of 28 states (and 
others accepting daily) to act in an advisory capacty if called upon, but 
it seems Hkely that its work will lessen rather than increase, as the emer- 
gency work everywhere becomes better organized. 

Isabel Ely Lord, Chairman. 
June 7, 1917. 



The Food Administration bill was passed by the House June 23, by 
a vote of 365 to 5 after the insertion of a drastic amendment prohibiting 
further manufacture of intoxicating liquors during the war, and author- 
izing the President to commandeer existing stocks of distilled spirits. 

It is hoped that by the time this issue goes to press, the bill will also 
have passed the Senate. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A COURSE IN FOOD ECONOMIES FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER 

Mrs. Calvin has been sending out from the Bureau of Education a series of letters to home 
economics teachers. This twenty-fourth letter is reprinted, with some additional references 
and a few small changes, in the hope that it may be of value if directly in the hands of the 
housekeeper, especially if she is planning a club program. The full list of references is given, 
since some may be available in one library, and others in another. A fair knowledge of the 
topics given may be obtained if only the government bulletins are used — and these may be 
secured by any one. — Editor. 

Lesson I. The Needs of the Body. Fundamental to any study of food 
economy is a knowledge of the needs of the body. This subject should 
be carefully developed by simple statements relative to the functions 
that food performs in the body and the quantities that are essential 
in different conditions. , 

References. Stiles, Percy. An Adequate Diet (Harvard Health 
Talks). 

Lusk, Graham. The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. 

Mendel, La Fayette B. Changes in the Food Supply and Their Re- 
lation to Nutrition. 

Farmers' Bulletin 142. Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value 
of Food. 

Lesson II. How to Select Food. The planning of meals for efl&ciency 
and economy; providing a day's food requirements. 

References. ''Food Selection for Rational and Economical Living," 
by Dr. Langworthy. Journal of Home Economics, June, 1916. 

Farmer's Bulletin 808, "How to Select Foods." 

Rose. ' ' Feeding the Family. ' ' 

Lesson III. Care in the Handling and Keeping of Foods. Home Stor- 
age and preservation; careful preparation of food in cooking — factors 
essential to economy. 

References. Farmers' Bulletin 375, "Care of Food in the Home." 

Farmer's Bulletin relating to foods and their preparation. 

Lesson IV. Small Economies. The vast majority of people probably 
do not have too much to eat, but rather they are careless in the handling 
of what they do have. Sum up the most common acts of carelessness 

329 



330 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

of which all are guilty: If in each of the 20,000,000 families in the country 
there were a saving of one teaspoonful of butter a total national saving 
of 200,000 pounds of butter would result; a saving of one teaspoonful 
of sugar per family would aggregate a saving of 700,000 pounds of sugar 
a saving on one slice of bread per family would mean a saving of 1,000,000 
pounds of bread. Similar statistics could be worked out for the waste 
in the careless handling of foods. 

The use of such luxuries as lettuce and cucumbers out of season 
should be considered from the standpoint of food value and financial 
expenditure. 

Reference. Lusk. Food Economies, Journal of the Washington 
Academy of Sciences, June 19, 1916. 

Food Thrift Series, U. S. Dept. of Agr. 

Lesson V. What the Home Garden Should Provide. Fruits and vege- 
tables that can be raised in the home garden; labor which is involved 
in gardening ; economic and dietetic value of the garden. 

References. Pubhcations, School and Home Garden Division, U. S. 
Bureau of Education. 

Publications, Department of Agriculture. 

Pubhcations, State Agricultural Colleges. 

The Food Garden Primer. National Emergency Food Garden 
Commission, Washington, D. C. 

Lesson VL The Unnecessary Consumption of Food. Superfluous 
courses at daily meals; superfluous courses at special meals for social 
entertainment; refreshments at afternoon tea (note act in England 
prohibiting sale of pastries); hght refreshments at social entertainments; 
prohibition of ''eating between meals;" daily economy menus worked 
out as a local problem. (If econom}^ in the use of food becomes an 
estabUshed fashion through the example set by the Cabinet ladies and 
others of high social rank, housewives in general will feel more free to 
exchange reports of their own private economies, those which they are 
practicing now and those which they know their mothers practiced in 
the past.) 

References. Publications, Department of Agriculture. Reports of 
what has been done in England, France, Germany, and Italy as con- 
tained in magazine articles and Government reports for the past two 
years. 

Journal of Home Economics, September, 1916. ("The War and Die- 
tetics," and "A Triumph of Scientific Housekeeping.") 



1917] A COTJRSE IN FOOD ECONOMIES 331 

Lesson VII. Conditions Affecting the Cost of Food. 

A. Cost of production: land values; seed expenses; labor prices; crop 
losses. 

B. Cost of transportation: to place of shipping; rail expenses; local 
wholesale storage; distribution to retailers; local small quantity distri- 
bution. 

C. Expense due to spoilage: in field or farmstead; in transit; in re- 
tail stores; in homes. 

D. Relation of supply to demand at home and abroad. 
References. PubHcations, Department of Agriculture. 
Conservative newpaper editorials. 

Weekly and monthly magazines of the past eight months. 

Vulte. Food Industries. Canning and How to Use Canned Foods. 

Food Economy in War Time. Cambridge University Press, London. 

Journal of American Medical Association, April 28, 1917. 

Sherman. Food Products. 

Ellen H. Richards. The Cost of Food. 

Lesson VIII. Conditions Affecting the Digestion of Foods. Age, work, 
climate, nervous condition, manner of cooking. 

References. Sherman. Human Nutrition. 

Hutchison. Food and Dietetics. 

Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. 

Ladies Home Journal. "What We Eat and What Happens to It," 
by Philip Hawk, December, 1916— June, 1917. 

Department of Agriculture Bulletins. 

Today's Housewdfe. (Series of articles, beginning October, 1916, by 
Caroline Hunt.) 

Lesson IX. Feeding Infants -and Children. A. The infant; B. The 
child from two to five; C. The child from five to fourteen; D. The youth 
from fourteen to twenty-five. 

References. Bulletins, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Public Health Service, Treasury Department. 

Children's Bureau publications, Labor Department. 

The Children's Food. By Mary Swartz Rose. The Emergency Com- 
mittee of the A. H. E. A., 19 W. 44th St., New York City. Price 5 cents. 

Rose. Feeding the Family. 

Sherman. Human Nutrition. 

Lusk. Science of Nutrition. 

Holt. Feeding of Children, 



332 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Morse. The Care and Feeding of Children. 

Wiley. Foods and their Adulterants. 

Starr. Digestive Diseases of Children. 

Journal American Medical Assn.,. Nov. 11, 1916, p. 1413; Aug. 5, 
1916, p. 432; Sept. 9, 1916, p. 814. 

Journal of Home Economics, June 1917 (The Care of Children). 

Lesson X. Results of Incorrect Diet. — Infantile diseases; digestive 
diseases among adults; susceptibility to infectious diseases; nutritional 
diseases. 

References. See Lecture IX. 

Public Health Reprints, Nos. 307, 311, 325, 333. 

Public Health Supplements to the PubHc Health Reports, No. 5. 

Journal of the American Medical Assn., April 21, 1917. 

Lesson XI. Special Diets for the Sick and Convalescent. 

References. See Lectures IX and X. 

Journal of the American Medical Association, September 30, 1916. 

Journal of Home Economics, January 1917 (''The New Feeding in 
Typhoid" and "Dietetic Treatment of Diabetes.") 

Lesson XII. Community Feeding Problem. 

References. Papers from the Institution Economics Section of the 
American Home Economics Association, 1915. 

Journal of Home Economics, Feb. 1912. 

Journal American Medical Association, June 3, 1916, p. 760; August 
5, 1916, p. 432; Sept. '9, 1916, p. 814; Nov. 18, 1916, p. 1496; Jan. 6, 1917. 

School Feeding at Home and Abroad. Lippincott, 1913. 

Technical Education, Bulletin No. 23. Teachers College. 

13th Annual Report N. Y. State Commission on Lunacy, 1902. 

Other articles in the Journal of Home Economics of special value 
in this connection are: 

Recent Contributions to the Foundations of Dietetics, by Ruth 
Wheeler, November, 1915. 

Mineral Nutrients in Practical Dietetics, by E. B. Forbes, March, 1916. 

Practicable Ways of Increasing the Iron Content of the Diet, by Caro- 
hne Hunt, November, 1916. 

Recent Work on Normal Adult Nutrition, by Katherine Blunt, De- 
cember, 1916. 

Vitamines or Life Preservers, by M. Helen Keith, December, 1916. 



1917] BARLEY COOKERY 333 

BARLEY COOKERY 

DEPARTMENT OF HOME ECONOMICS, UNTVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 

At this time of world-wide food shortage the large amount of barley 
(4,480,588 bushels in 1916) used annually in the United States for the 
malting industry might well be used for human food. The wisdom 
of prohibiting the use of available food for the production of alcohohc 
beverages is particularly pertinent at this time. It will be recalled that 
in a similar period of stress during the Civil War the Confederate States 
found it necessary to forbid the use of all food substances in such 
industries. 

The utilization of barley for human food is not new. At the time of 
Charles I barley was eaten by the common people in England, and even 
as late as 1870 it was widely used not only in England but in northern 
Europe. In our own country it has been used in the form of flour for 
barley gruel and as a cereal diluent in infant feeding. The housewife is 
familiar with pearled barley, an important ingredient in "Scotch" broth. 

The nutritive value of barley compares favorably with wheat. High 
grade barley contains approximately 15 per cent protein, while wheat 
averages 13 per cent. The carbohydrate, fat, and mineral content are 
about the same in both cereals. On account of the present wheat short- 
age the housewife should use barley as much as possible in order to ex- 
tend the limited wheat supply. 

Since the proteins of barley, when combined with water, fail to form 
the sticky, elastic substance (glutin) essential for the production of the 
typical loaf of bread, when used for this purpose some wheat flour should 
be mixed with the barley flour.- When, however, the barley flour is 
used with eggs, as in cakes or mufims it may be used alone. Equal parts 
of wheat flour and barley flour or two parts of barley to one part of wheat 
make satisfactory mixtures. 

In the recipes following we have used in some cases barley meal, 
which has a texture similar to that of com meal. In other cases barley 
flour was used. Both of these products are on the market. Those 
who are far from the milling centers may create a demand by asking 
their local dealers to get these for them. 



334 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Following are the recipes suggesting ways of using barley meal : 

BAE.LEY POISTE 

1 cup hot boiled hominy grits i teaspoonful salt 

2 cups milk 1 cup barley meal 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

2 eggs 

Add the milk and butter to the cooked hominy grits. Cool, add salt, 
barley meal, and baking powder sifted together, then the well beaten 
eggs; pour into a buttered dish and bake in a moderate oven forty-five 
minutes. Cut in triangular pieces and serve from dish in which baked. 

FRIED BARLEY BALLS 

1 quart boiling water 1 teaspoonful salt 

U cups barley meal 1 tablespoonful butter 

2 small eggs 

Cook barley meal in boiHng salted water at least one hour in a double 
boiler. Cool, add butter and well beaten eggs. Form into balls 1^ 
inches in diameter, roll in flour, and fry in deep fat. Serve with syrup 
and butter. 

BARLEY AS A BREAKFAST FOOD 

2 cups water - I teaspoonful salt 

I cup barley meal 

Boil water, add salt and barley meal, stirring constantly. Cook in 
double boiler one hour + , or in fireless cooker 12 hours. Serve with cream 
and sugar, if desired. Dates or raisins cooked with the cereal make 
a pleasant variety. 

BARLEY TAPIOCA PUDDING 

5 tablespoonfuls pearl tapioca 1 teaspoonful salt 

4 cups scalded milk 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

4 tablespoonfuls barley mea! 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

5 cup molasses 1 cup milk 

Soak tapioca two hours in cold water to cover. Pour scalded milk 
over barley meal and boil three minutes. Add tapioca (drained from 
water), molasses, butter, salt, and sugar; turn into buttered pudding 
dish and pour over remaining milk, but do not stir. Bake 'in a moderate 
oven two hours. 



1917] BARLEY COOKERY 335 

SCOTCH BROTH 

3 pounds mutton from fore quarter Carrots 1 j cup each 

2 quarts cold water Turnips/ cut in small cubes 

^ tablespoonful salt 2 tablespooniuls flour 

\ teaspoonful pepper 3 tablespoonfuls pearl barley 

1 small onion 

Wash meat, remove skin and fat, and cut meat in small pieces; add 
water, seasonings, vegetables, barley, and flour mixed with a little cold 
water. Cook slowly from six to eight hours. As water evaporates, 
add enough to make up for that lost by evaporation. 

BARLEY SCONES 

1 cup whole wheat flour 2 tablespoonfuls lard or beef drippings 

1 cup barley meal I cup sour milk 

J teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful soda 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Sift flour, barley meal, salt, and baking powder together and work 
in lard with tips of fingers or two knives. Dissolve soda in a little cold 
water and add to sour milk. Combine flour mixture and sour milk to 
form a soft dough. Turn out on a well floured board, knead slightly, 
roll to I inch in thickness; cut in diamond shapes and bake in a hot oven. 

BARLEY MUFFINS 

1 cup whole wheat flour 1 egg 

1 cup barley meal H cups sour milk 
J teaspoonful salt ^ teaspoonful soda 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 2 tablespoonfuls beef drippings or lard 

Sift flour, barley meal, salt, and baking powder. Dissolve soda in a 
little cold w^ater and add to sour milk. Combine flour mixture and sour 
milk; add beaten egg and melted fat. Bake in muihn pans in a moder- 
ate oven. 

BARLEY BREAD I 

4 cups whole wheat flour 1 cup milk 

2 cups barley meal 2 tablespoonfuls molasses 

1 cup water 1 teaspoonful salt 

^ yeast cake 

Boil milk and water and cool; add molasses, salt, and yeast mixed 
with a Uttle cold water; stir in flour and barley meal which have been 
sifted together. Knead to a soft dough, adding more flour, if necessary. 
Cover and let rise until the mixture is double its bulk. Knead a second 



336 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS , [July 

time, formjnto loaves, place in well greased pans and let rise a second 
time imtil dough has very nearly doubled its bulk. Bake in a hot oven 
from one-half to one hour, depending upon size of loaves. 

BARLEY BREAD II 

4 cups whole wheat flour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

2 cups barley flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup water h yeast cake 

1 cup milk Follow directions for barley bread. 

BARLEY SPOON BREAD 

\ cup salt pork cut in \ inch cubes 1 cup barley meal 

4 cups boiling water 2 or 3 eggs 

Cook salt pork in saucepan until slightly brown, add water and when 
boiling, sprinkle in barley meal, stirring constantly. Cook in a double 
boiler one hour, cool, and add well beaten egg?. Turn into a buttered 
dish and bake in a moderate oven three-fourths of an hour. 

BARLEY PUDDING 

5 cups milk | teaspoonful salt 

§ cup barley meal 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

I cup molasses 1 teaspoonful ginger 

Scald the milk, pour this onto the meal, and cook in double boiler 
twenty minutes; add molasses, salt, sugar, and ginger. Pour into but- 
tered pudding dish and bake two hours in a slow oven. Serve either hot 
or cold with cream. 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs 8 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup sugar s cup barley flour 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

Separate whites and yolks of eggs. Beat yolks, add lemon juice 
and sugar, then flour. Fold in well beaten whites of eggs, and bake in 
slow oven. 



ECONOMY IN LEATHER 

Attention is called by the government to the need of care in the use 
of leather. 

Leather is demanded in war time for soldiers' shoes, for harness, for 
equipment of many kinds. In this country there is no such surplus 



1917] ECONOMY IN LEATHER 337 

that we can afford to waste any of it; and it is wasting leather not to 
care for and preserve it properly. In the army and out, we all wear 
shoes. If we manage them rightly they will last longer; we shall not 
need so many new ones and there will be more left for others. The 
Leather and Paper Laboratory of the United States Department of 
Agriculture makes the following suggestions. 

To save shoes, they should be oiled or greased whenever the leather begins 
to get hard or dry. They should be brushed thoroughly and then aU the dirt 
and mud that remains washed off with warm water, the excess water being 
taken off with a dry cloth. While the shoes are still wet and warm apply the 
oil or grease with a swab of wool or flannel. It is best to have the oil or grease 
about as warm as the hand can bear and it should be rubbed well into the 
leather, preferably with the palm. If necessary, the oil can be applied to dry 
leather, but it penetrates better when the latter is wet. After treatment the 
shoes should be left to dry in a place that is warm — not hot. 

Castor oil is satisfactory for shoes that are to be pohshed; for plainer foot- 
gear neat's foot, fish oil, or oleine may be substituted. If it is desired to make 
the shoes and boots more waterproof, beef tallow may be added to any of these 
substances at the rate of half a pound of tallow to a pint of oil. The edge 
of the sole and the welt should be greased thoroughly. There is no danger 
of applying too much grease to these parts. 

A simple method of making the soles more durable, pUable, and water re- 
sistant, is to swab them occasionally with Unseed oil, setting them aside to 
dry over night. 

Many of the common shoe poUshes are harmful to leather. AU those 
which contain sulphuric, hydrochloric, or oxalic acids, turpentine, benzine, 
or other volatile solvents have a tendency to harden the leather and make 
it more hable to crack. 

It is poor economy, too, to wear a shoe with the heel badly worn on one 
side. This throws the shoe out of shape and may soon result in its ruin. It 
is also likely to cause temporary injury to the foot. 

We would add to these suggestions of the department that a further 
way to economize in the use of leather is to refrain entirely from buying 
the very high shoes, whose use has increased enormously the amount 
of material used; to wear low shoes as far as possible; to buy shoes of 
canvas or other material rather than leather; to use leather substitutes, 
some of which are very satisfactory, for new soles. 

Do not increase the shortage by laying in a stock of shoes against 
possible emergencies. 



338 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Jllly 

CANNING AND PRESERVING 

The young housekeeper of a generation ago turned at this time of year 
to the above heading in her cookery book, and began her preparation 
for long hot days of work over the coal or wood stove, fortunate if she 
had a cool veranda for the preparation of her fruit. 

To-day "preserving" in the sense of pound for pound of fruit and sugar 
is rarely practiced, while even canning and jelly making have been 
among the industries disappearing from the home. 

Fresh fruits available all the year round, as a result of cold storage and 
of better transportation facilities, and the enormous development of 
commercial canning industries, have made it possible to supply variety 
for the table at less expenditure of time and energy than was involved 
in the older method. 

Help in carrying out the newer processes, as well as in the revival of 
some old ones, is offered in late bulletins of the Department of Agriculture. 
ExpHcit directions are given for three methods of drying, a process that 
should be used extensively this year since both tin cans and glass jars 
are scarce and expensive. 

Fermentation, much used in European countries, is suggested for cer- 
tain vegetables, such as beets, string beans, and cucumbers. The method 
of canning fruit without sugar is explained, and especially careful direc- 
tions are given for the cold pack process of canning, altogether the 
easiest and safest method, especially for vegetables. Tables are included 
showing the time required for "blanching," "dipping," and "processing," 
for different fruits and vegetables, and under various conditions. 

Perhaps the greatest change in method is in the making of jelly. The 
old rule of "pint to pound" is discarded, and samples of the fruit juice 
are tested with alcohol to determine the amount of pectin present, and 
the proportion of sugar adjusted accordingly. The pectin may be in- 
creased by the addition of some of the inner white rind of the orange or 
lemon, and the acidity, an important factor in successful jelly making, 
may be adjusted by the addition of lemon juice, or dilution with water. 
For one experienced in its use the thermometer is a great aid in deter- 
mining the jelljdng point. 

Not only are the Department bulletins available to anyone, but nearly 
every state through its Agricultural College issues bulletins of its own free 
of charge to residents of the state. Many of these are of great value. 
Articles in regard to jelly making and canning and drying fruit and 
vegetables have been published in the following Journals: June 1917, 
June-July 1915, June 1914. 



EDITORIAL 

The Annual Meeting Postponed. At an informal meeting in Wash- 
ington on June 2, at which several members of the Council were present, 
it was decided unwise to hold the annual meeting in August, 1917. This 
decision meets the approval of the executive committee, and of Miss 
Berry who was to have been our hostess. 

This is a source of great regret to many of us who had looked forward 
to conferences that not only would inform us as to what others are 
doing in the present emergency but help us to make more adequate 
plans for our own work next year. 

The final reason that influenced the decision was the fact that so many 
who usually attend the meeting will be unable this year to come at this 
time because of the immediate help in food conservation that must be 
extended to both city and country women. 

Perhaps when the time comes to call the meeting, plans may be so 
matured that conferences will be still more helpful than they could be 
at present. 

NOTICES 

The meeting of the A. H. E. A. in connection with the N. E. A, is 
to be held on Tuesday, July 10. The program was pubUshed in the 
June Journal. Reprints may be obtained from the Journal office. 

The A. H. E. A. will hold a meeting in connection with the Department 
of Superintendence of the N. E. A. in Atlanta next February. The Asso- 
ciation headquarters will be at the Piedmont Hotel. Those expecting 
to attend should reserve rooms now. 

The list of Affiliated Associations in the future will be printed quarterly 
nstead of monthly. 

Attention is again called to the annoimcement that the trustees of 
the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund and the University of Chicago 
jointly offer a Graduate Fellowship of five hundred dollars and tuition, 
to be used at the University of Chicago during the year 1917-18. 
Candidates must hold a Bachelor's degree and be equipped to do advanced 
graduate work in some phase of Household Administration. Applica- 
tion for the fellowship should be made before August 1, 1917, to the 
Office of the Graduate Schools, University of Chicago. 

339 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS Ijuly 

Program of Conference of Supervisors of Home Economics, Benson 
High School, Portland, Oregon, July 6-7, 1917, Preceding the 
Meeting of the N. E. A. 

10 . 00 a.m. — Friday, July 6. Special problems confronting home economics 
teachers under present war conditions. Mrs. Calvin, Bureau 
of Education. 
10 . 30 a.m. Self-supporting food preparation classes. 

30 minute paper. Miss Edna Groves, Portland, Oregon. 

15 minute discussion. Miss Adelaide Baylor, Indianapolis, Ind. 
11.15 a.m. Home economics departments and school lunches. 

30 minute paper, Miss Essie Heyle, Kansas City, Mo. 

15 minute discussion, Miss Anna L. Post, Tacoma, Washington. 

General discussion of morning work — 30 minutes. 
1.00 p.m. Lunch, Benson High School Building. 
2.00p.m. Uniformity vs. variation in sewing problems. 

30 minute paper. Miss Fisher, Pasadena, California. 

15 minute discussion. Miss Grace Johnson, Corvallis, Ore. 
2.45p.m. Sewiyig in lower grades by grade teachers vs. sewing by special 
teachers. 

30 minute paper. Miss Prentiss, Berkeley, Cal. 

15 minute discussion, Miss Amy L. Greenlaw, Sacramento, Cal. 
3.30p.m. 30 minute discussion of afternoon papers. 
Saturday, July 7. Breakfast at Seward Hotel 8.15 a.m. 
9.30 a.m. The practice house. 

30 minute paper. Miss Tingle, Portland, Oregon. 

15 minute report on the Pendleton experiment, Miss Butler, 
Pendleton, Oregon. 
10. 15 a.m. Home work with or without school credit. 

30 minute paper, Mrs. Dabney, Seattle, Washington. 

15 minute discussion. Miss Demmon, Butte, Montana. 
11 .00 to 12 .30 Plans for next winter^ s work under altered ecotiomic conditions. 

Committee to report, and discussion to follow. 
2 . 00 p.m. The city superintendent and the home economics department. 

Supt. Francis, Columbus, Ohio. 

Discussion, Mr. Engleman, Decatur, 111. 
2.45 p.m. Difficulties encountered in securing adequately prepared teachers. 

30 minute paper, Miss Erich, Minneapolis, Minn. 
3. 15 p.m. Stimulating growth of teachers while in service. 

30 min. paper, general discussion. Miss Bartlett, San Francisco. 
4.00 p. m. Discussion of afternoon's work. 

Automobile excursion to Council Crest. Tea at the "Anne Davenport 

Tea House." 
Note. — Headquarters at Seward Hotel. Rooms with bath, $2.00 for one 
person; $4.00 if used by two. 



1917] THE QUESTION BOX 341 

THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Can you tell me where I can get information regarding 
management of a tea room, or anything connected wdth tea rooms? 

Answer: ''The Development of a Tea Room," by Grace A. Fowler, 
Harper's Bazaar, March, 1908. 

"Tea Houses, The Brown Owl and Others," by Mary Northend and 
Katherine Wyman, Good Housekeeping, April, 1909. 

"Roadside Tea Rooms, A New Industry," by Martha Cutler and 
E. B. Cutting, Harpers Bazaar, May, 1909. 

"Taverns and Tea Rooms as a Business for Women," by Hermine 
Dudley and Sarah Seyburn Coe, Good Housekeeping, June, 1911. 

"The Spectator," Outlook, June, 1913. 

"Business Training for Women," Ethel M. Johnson, Journal of Home 
Economics, November, 1915. 

"An Apphcation of Statistics to Budget Making for Lunch Rooms." 
By Roxana H. Vivian, Journal of Home Economics, January, 1916. 

"A Unique College Exhibit" by Ava B. Milam, Journal of Home 
Economics, May, 1916. 

"A Rare Boarding House." By Ella Kaiser Carruth, Journal of 
Home Economics, March, 1915. 

"Three Women and a Farm." By Ella Kaiser Carruth, Journal of 
Home Economics, May, 1916. 

"What Three Women Did With Their Home," by Una Nixon Hop- 
kins, Ladies Home Journal, May, 1913. 

"Step Inn, A Successful Tea Room," by Carolyn Pickett Moore, 
Woman's Home Companion, November, 1913. 

"A Tea Room Rich in Household Suggestions," by Margaret Gray 
Blanton, Delineator, February, 1915. 

"The Pullman Car Tea Shop," by Es telle Lambert Mattison, Woman's 
Home Companion, May, 1916. 

"Tea Room Novelties," by Helena Judson, Delineator, May, 1916. 

Technical educational bulletins, Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, New York City. 

To the Journal of Home Economics : 

In the December number of the Journal it is stated in the article 
entitled "Recent Work on Normal Adult Nutrition" that "The quick- 
ness with which the energy of the sugars is available to the body is 



342 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

qiiite notable. It may be shown by short time determinations of the 
respiratory quotient. Sucrose, lactose, levulose, and also alcohol, begin 
to be burned in appreciable quantity in five to eleven minutes; glucose 
and maltose require a longer time, from twenty to thirty minutes." 

Since we are told that all carbohydrates must be changed to mono- 
saccharides before they can be utihzed in the body, I do not understand 
why glucose, which is supposedly ready for utiHzation, and maltose which 
is more nearly so than is sucrose, should not begin to be burned in ap- 
preciable quantities until twenty to thirty minutes while sucrose and 
lactose begin to be so in five to eleven minutes. Can you explain this? 
I shall appreciate it most gratefully. 

Very truly yours, 

Sister Loretto Basil. 

Answer: The experiments quoted were done by Higgins. As his fig- 
ures show that both levulose and sucrose are burned in the body more 
quickly than glucose, he concludes that it is the levulose part of the su- 
crose molecule that causes the rapid action, with the latter sugar. The 
prompt metaboHsm of lactose is probably due to the galactose moiety. 
In other words, we are not justified in an asumption that all monosac- 
charides are burned more quickly than all disaccharides. Apparently 
levulose and galactose burn so much faster than glucose that their 
greater activity more than makes up for any time necessary for the 
hydrolysis of sucrose and lactose. 

Higgins also calls attention to the fact that his high respiratory quo- 
tients for sucrose and levulose (maximum 1.145 and 1.105 respectively) 
may be due not only to oxidation in the body but to change to fat.. 
"One might say in brief that levulose and sometimes galactose, judging 
from the respiratory quotient, show a tendency or preference to change 
to fat in the body, while glucose tends to change to glycogen and be 
stored as such." 

The experimenters used 100 gms. sugar made up with water and cereal 
coffee to about 300 cc. and drunk rapidly. 

Katharine Blunt. 

School of Education, University of Chicago 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The Home Care of Sick Children (A guide for 
mothers in the care of sick cliildren.) 
By Emelyn Lincoln Coolidge, M.D. 
New York: D. Appleton and Company, 
1916, pp. 282. $1.00. By mail of the 
Journal, $1.05. 

A new generation of mothers is seeking 
information to insure the safe up-bringing of 
their children. Despite the best of care, 
illness manages to creep into the home. A 
knowledge of the home care of sick children 
is exceedingly valuable and tends to safe- 
guard the welfare of the children in the face 
of emergencies and in the absence of avail- 
able medical attendance. 

Dr. Coolidge has drawn from her vast 
experience those specific methods of nursing 
assistance which may be given by any in- 
telligent mother. Technical terms have 
been eliminated except where they are neces- 
sary for a thorough understanding of the 
condition under discussion although in a 
few instances words not in common use have 
been permitted to remain without an ex- 
planatory word or phrase. 

At times a proprietary medicine has been 
advised when a real need does not exist as, 
for example, on pages 7 and 172. The 
author recognizes the fact that proprietary 
foods at times succeed in infant feeding 
where all forms of milk have failed, but 
states "they should be tried only as a last 
resort." 

It is doubtful whether it is advisable to 
suggest a long line of treatment in condi- 
tions such as chronic gastritis of infants, 
when medical attention and intelligent ad- 
vice demand more judgment and discrimi- 
nation in treatment than the limited experi- 
ence of a mother affords. 

At times a false note is struck as, for ex- 
ample, on page 210, referring to masturba- 
tion, the statement is made "if the habit is 



allowed to continue it may lead to forms of 
insanity." Probably such continuance is 
more likely to be the result of mental 
inferiority. 

From the stand-point of presentation the 
book is to be recommended highly. Its 
principal defect consists in its surplus of 
material which may work to the disadvan- 
tage, of the sick children if the mother as- 
sumes that as a result of reading or referring 
to this book she has attained efficiency in 
diagnosis. Its most practical value lies in 
its use as a book of reference in the home 
and not as a daily guide. 

Ira S. Wile, M.D. 

Minimum Cost of Living. By Winifred 
Stuaut Gibbs. New York: Macmillan, 
1917, pp. 93. $1.00. By maU of the 
Journal, $1.08. 

A study of families of limited income in 
New York City. According to Miss Gibbs 
the students of the family budget may ha\-e 
the viewpoint of the social statistitian like 
Le Play, Engel, and, in our own time, Mrs. 
Moore and Dr. Chapin, whose chief interest 
is in the figures themselves and their place 
in a study that is broadly social; or their 
interest in the statisrical side may be en- 
tirely due to the fact that these figures form 
the basis for improving the life of gi\en 
family groups so that they become stronger 
units in the future. It is from this latter 
viewpoint that the studies have been made 
with which this volume deals. 

Seventy-five families out of 150 studied 
are chosen as representative. In the fam- 
ilies are from 2 to 8 children; 19 families are 
American, 28 are Irish, 17 are German, and 
there are a few of other nationalities. 

These budgets were not the result of one 
season's work; for several years the families 
in question had been advised and helped in 

343 



344 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



the proper distribution of the income over 
their needs. It will astonish house keepers 
who consider the keeping of the expense 
account as a weary chasing of sordid de- 
tails, to learn that it becomes in the hands 
of Miss Gibbs and her associates a means 
of education and enlightenment as to life 
values for the women under their charge, 
and many of the women found the keeping 
of the household budget, with its adjust- 
ments to needs and desires, a fascinating 
employment. 

One must marvel at the tact and wisdom 
of the compilers of these budgets which en- 
abled them to win the full confidence of the 
women of the families. As Miss Gibbs says, 
"it is a delicate matter to lay even the friend- 
liest hands on home matters." 

The financial history of these families is 
given in great detail. The full value of the 
figures for purposes of comparative study is 
only to be estimated by the special students 
in this line of work. It would seem that 
every carefully prepared family history 
would add to our precious store of "human 
documents." 

Food Study. A textbook in home econom- 
ics for high schools. By Mabel Thacher 
Wellman. Boston: Little Brown and 
Company, 1917, pp. 324. §1.00. By 
mail of the Journal, $1.09. 
Miss Wellman has called her book Food 
Study. It does not try to cover the whole 
subject of food, shelter, and clothing. It 
is a carefully worked out presentation of 
the subject of food, based on the under- 
lying principles of food preparation. 

The author believes that "As in physics 
and chemistry, there are principles of cook- 
ing which are worthy of consideration, and, 
as in any science, they should be taught 
from an inductive standpoint," but she 
also beheves that the student should use 
the "accumulated experience of mankind." 
Miss Wellman has met what to the re- 



viewer seems to be the prestni high school 
need — a text book with adequate dietetic 
content. She has interpreted scientific ma- 
terial that is not easily available for 
high schools and has presented it in a simple, 
clear, concise way. As an illustration we 
quote part of her statement in regard t» 
the cooking of cellulose. 

On page 64 she says, "Boiling in water 
does not change real cellulose at all just as 
cotton clothes are not changed by boiling 
. . . . The cellulose walls of a plant 
are stiffened with other related substances 
. . . . Cooking dissolves out some of 
these intercellular substances and also hy- 
drates the starch, and so cooked vegetables 
are softened." 

The arrangement of the book is unique, 
differing from that of other text books. 
Meal planning is taken as the basis of work, 
and the things necessary for a girl to know 
in order to plan, buy, and serve meals are the 
points Miss Wellman has made prominent. 

She makes the laboratory work the direct 
application of science experiments. In a 
few instances the writer takes exception to 
the practical application, as, for example, 
in the directions for the poaching of an egg 
and the making of jellies. 

The book is planned, not as a guide to 
teachers or as a reference book, but as a 
real text book to be used in class. 

The writer feels that it is a most valu- 
able contribution and recommends it to all 
interested in high school or normal school 
work. 

Jenny H. Snow, 
Chicago Normal College. 

CORRECTION 

The Chiidren's Food, by Mary S. Rose, is 
for sale by the Emergency Comm'ttee of the 
A. H. E. A., 19 West 44th St., New York 
City, and not by the National Special Aid 
Society as announced in the June Journal. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 345 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

Boric Acid Occurring Naturally in Some Foods. A. H. Smith, Ohio Jour. Set., 17 {1916), 
no, 2, pp. 66-68. 

Mace. A. McGill, Lah. Inland Rev. Dept., Canada Bui. 349 (1916), pp. 13. 

Coconut Toddy in Ceylon. K. C. Browning and C. T. Symons, Jour. Soc. Chem. Indus., 
35 (1916), no. 22, pp. 1138-1142. 

Science of Baking Business with Special Reference to Yeast Foods. R. M. Allen, Nat. 
Baker, 21 (1916), no. 250, pp. 45, 46, 48, 50-52, 54-56. 

Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. A. D. Holmes and H. L. Lang, U. S. Dtpt. 
Agr. Bui. 469 (1916), pp. 27, figs. 2. 

A preliminary Chemical Study of the Rices of Bihar and Orissa. J. N. Sen, Agr. Re- 
search Inst. Pusa [India] Bui. 62 (1916), pp. 20, pi. 1. 

North Dakota Wheat for 1916. E. F. Ladd North Dakota Sta. Bid. 119 (1916), pp. 51-61 , 
pl.l. 

Flavoring Extracts. C. H. LaWall and L. Forman, Penn. Dept. Agr. Bui. 285 (1916), 
pp. 35. 

Chinese Preserved Eggs-Pidan. Katharine Blunt and C. C. Wang, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
28 (1916), no. 1, pp. 125-134. 

Manufacture of Bean IMilk at Changsha [China]. N. T. Johnson, U. S. Dept. Com., Com. 
Rpts., no. 183 (1916), pp. 468, 469. 

A Cause of Mustiness in Bread. A. M. Wright, Jour. Soc. Chem. Indus., 35 (1916), no. 
20, pp. 1045, 1046. 

On the Use of Certain Yeast Nutriments in Bread Making. H. A. Kohman, C. Hoffman, 
T. M. Godfrey, L. H. Ashe, and A. E. Blake, Jour. Indus, and Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 
9, pp. 781-789, figs. 3. 

Economics 

The Economical Ration for the Times. C. Bolduan, Sci. Amer., 115 (1916), no. 24, 
p. 529. 

Retail Prices, House Rent, and Cost-of-living Indexes. G. H. Knibbs, Commonwealth 
Bur. Census and Statis., Aust. Labor Bui., no. 12 (1915), pp. 333-352. 

The Increase in the Cost of Food for Different Classes of Society Since the Outbreak of 
War. Frances Wood, Jour. Roy. Statis. Soc, 79 (1916), no. 4, pp. 501-508. 

The Food Value of Great Britain's Food Supply. W. H. Thompson, Econ. Proc. Roy. 
Dublin Soc, 2 (1916), no. 11, pp. 168-220. 

The German Food Supply and Its Political Economy. H. Schumacher, Deutsche Volks- 
erndhrung ukd VolksernahrungspoUtik im Kriege. Berlin: Carl Heymann, 1915, pp. vii 
-f 92; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 36 (1917), no. 3, p. 263. 

The Wasters of the Worid. Wm. C. Redfield, Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), no. 
1, pp. 18-27. 

Rise in British Food Prices. R. L. Washington, U. S. Dept. Com., Com. Rpts. no. 138 
(1916), p. 990. 



346 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Physiology and Nutrition 

The Urinary and Fecal Output of Calcium in Normal Men Together with Observations 
on the Hydrogen Ion Concentration of Urine and Feces. C. F. Nelson and J. L. WUliams, 
Jmir. Biol. Chem., 28 (1916), no. 1, pp. 231-236. 

The Calcium and Magnesium Content of Normal Urine. C. F. Nelson and W. R. Bums, 
Jojtr. Biol. Chem., 28 (1916), no. 1, pp. 237-240. 

Experimental Scurvy Produced in Guinea Pigs by Milk and Milk Products. J. J. Moore 
and Leila Jackson, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 67 (1916), no. 26, pp. 1931-1935. 

The Distribution of the Lipoids ("Fat") in Human Blood. W. R. Bloor, Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 25 (1916), no. 3, pp. 577-599. 

f^ ■. The Effect of Nitrogen Partition of Substituting Alcohol for Sucrose in an Otherwise Fixed 
Diet. F. S. Hammett, Jour. Biol. Chem., 25 (1916), no. 3, pp. 601-605. 

The Mechanism of the Sparing Action of Carbohydrates on Protein Metabolism. R. A. 
Kocher, Jour. Biol. Chem., 25 (1916), no. 3, pp. 571-576. 

Changes in the Urea Content of Blood and Tissues of Guinea Pigs Maintained on an Ex- 
clusive Oat Diet. H. B. Lewis and W. G. Karr, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28 (1916), no. 1, pp. 
17-25. 

The TransmissibUity of Pellagra. — Experimental Attempts at Transmission to the 
Human Subject. J. Goldberger, Puh. Health Rpts. ['7. S.], 31 (1916), no. 46, pp. 3159-3173. 

Results of Studies on Vitamins and Deficiency Diseases During the Years 1913-1915. 
C. Funk, Biochem. Bui., 4 (1915), no. 14-15, pp. 304-364, fig. 1. 

The Feeding of Prisoners and Sanitary Conditions in German Camps. A. C. Guillaume, 
Rev. Set. [Paris], 54 (1916), II, no. 20, pp. 619-624; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec. 36 (1917), no. 4, 
p. 363. 

Dietary Deficiencies of the Maize Kernel. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, and W. 
Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28 (1916), no. 1, pp. 153-165, figs, 10. 

The Effects of Feeding the Proteins of the Wheat Kernel at Different Planes of Intake. 
E. V. McCollum, N. Simmonds, and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28. (1916), no. 1, pp. 211- 
229, figs. 17. 

Bread as a Food. — Changes in its Vitamin Content and Nutritive Value with Reference 
to the Occurrence of Pellagra. C. Voegtlin, M. X. SuUivan, and C. N. Myers, Pub. Health 
Rpts. [U. S.], 31 (1916), no. 15, pp. 935-943. 

Bread as a Food. Pub. Health Rpts. [U. S.], 31 (1916), no. 33, p. 2205. 

Biochemistry of Cod-liver Oil. C. Funk, Biochem. Bui., 4 (1915), no. 14-15, pp. 365-370. 

Studies on Growth. — III, The Comparative Value of Lard and Butter Fat in GrowtTi. 
C. Funk and A. B. Macallum, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 51-62, figs. 2. 

Studies on Growth. — IV, The Action of Yeast Fractions on the Growth of Rats. C. 
Funk and A. B. Macallum, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 63-70, figs. 2. 

The Influence of Flesh-feeding on Urinary Creatinin. D. Burns and J. B. Orr, Biochem. 
Jour., 10 (1916), no. 3, pp. 495-503. 

The Relation of Diet to Beri-bcri. E. B. Vedder, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 67 (1916), 
no. 21, pp. 1494-1497. 

The Use of Malt Soup Extract in Infant Feeding. B. R. Hoobler, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 67 (1916), no. 20, pp. 1420-1422, figs. 2. 

The Use of Boiled MUk in Infant Feeding and Elsewhere. J. Brennemann, Jour. Amer. 
Med. Assoc, 67 (1916), no. 20, pp. 1413-1419. 

Physiological and Pharmacological Studies on Coal Tar Colors. — I, Experiments with 
Fat-soluble Dyes. VV. Salant and R. Bengis, Jour. Biol. Cliem., 27 (1916), no. 2, pp. 403-427. 



NEWS FROjM the FIELD 



A State-Wide Canning Campaign has 
begun in Iowa under the auspices of the 
Extension Department of Iowa State College. 

Twenty demonstrators, chosen from the 
home economics teachers of the state began 
work on May 28. Each will spend two 
weeks in a county working in most cases 
with the county agent. Two cold pack 
canning demonstralions will be given each 
day in school buildings, churches, or country 
homes. 

Each demonstrator carries a full equip- 
ment consisting of stove, containers for 
sterilizing, blanching, and cold dipping, 
together with all the necessary small uten- 
sils. 

More workers are being added to the force 
and it is expected to give each county in 
the state a series of canning demonstrations 
before the season closes. 

Two new workers have been added to 
the Home Economics Extension force in 
Iowa: Miss Grace Conlon who will act as 
Extension Instructor, and Miss Mary Kelley 
who will assist with the Boys' and Girls' 
Club work. 



receives orders from farmers, nurseries, 
dairymen, and other employers for both 
men and women workers. 

If any women are looking for such work, 
and if employers are looking for help, they 
are asked to avail themselves of the services 
of this ofBce, which are entirely free. Ad- 
dress Women's Department. This is one 
of a chain of such offices in Rochester, Syra- 
cuse, Buflfalo, Albany, Auburn, and Oswego. 

The State Agricultural College, 
Fort Collins, Colorado, makes pro- 
\asion for the business training of the col- 
lege girl, in a course in Commercial Law 
elected by many young women and proving 
to be most worth while. The course in- 
cludes: The nature of law, and the sources 
from which the laws in this country have 
been derived; the fundamental principles 
of jurisprudence upon which rest the common 
transactions of business; the law of negoti- 
able instruments, real property, business 
associations, agency, and chattel mortgages. 
It consists of lectures and readings, and is 
elective for juniors and seniors. 



State Public Employment Office. A 

special department has been formed in the 
Brooklyn Office of the New York State 
Public Employment Bureau, for the han- 
dling of women and girls seeking work on 
farms, at gardening, nursery work, poultry 
raising, dair>'ing, or other work in the 
country. 

This special department is registering all 
women available, some thoroughly expe- 
rienced, others less experienced, others with 
no experience, but anxious to enter this 
work. Some are experienced in other lines 
and have become interested in farm work. 
A few have taken up agriculture courses 
in colleges in gardening, etc. This Bureau 



The Southeast Texas Industrial Arts 
Club met at Port Arthur, Texas, on April 
13 and 14. The Club is in the second year 
of its existence and the work of this meeting 
indicated a very genuine interest in the 
organization, and especially in the stand- 
ardization of industrial arts work. 

Among other things the Club recommend- 
ed that courses of study in the industrial 
arts subjects should be standardized as to 
amounts and character of subject matter 
covered in any given unit of work; that 
greater emphasis should be given to the 
study of house planning in the high school 
courses, and girls as well as boys should 
be encouraged to take this subject; that at 

347 



348 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



least one term of one-half year should be 
devoted to the general study of design before 
beginning its application to special subjects; 
that any course in design should be preceded 
by a course in free-hand drawing; and that 
industrial arts teachers must take the initia- 
tive in correlating academic work with their 
subjects. 

Brief Notes. At the National Con- 
ference on Child Labor, Baltimore, Md., 
March 23-25, the topics for discussion were, 
Making Child Labor Laws Effective; 
Problems of Education; Reports from Spe- 
cial Fields; and Safeguarding Children in 
Peace or War. 

The action most strongly urged through- 
out the conference was the defeat of any 
attempt to allow a national crisis to inter- 
fere with child labor laws already passed. 

Miss York, formerly of Agnes Scott College, 
has been appointed Bulletin Writer and 
Assistant in Home Demonstration Activities 
in the Florida Home Demonstration force. 
Miss York is constantly in the office to see 
that the members of clubs are provided 
with proper literature and proper assistance 
in making plans for club meetings. A 
specialist in farm butter making is also to 
be added to this state force. 

When the can situation became acute in 
Florida although a million cans had been 
placed in the homes of the people, Miss 
Agnes Harris of the State College went 
into the business and has handled three 
carloads of cans, in this way saving from 
$15 to $20 per thousand for the people who 
buy the cans. 

Mrs. Calvin is to be in Portland for the 
meeting of the Supervisors of H. E. and 
that of the A. H. E. A., both held in con- 
nection with the N. E. A. She will visit 
the Washington Normal School at Cheney, 
Wash., the Oregon Agricultural College 
at ComvaUis, Ore., the Utah Agricul- 
tural College at Logan, Utah, the Utah 
State University at Salt Lake, Utah, the 
Agricultural College of Colorado at Fort 
CoUins, Colo., and the Kansas State Agri- 



cultural College at Manhattan, Kans. and 
on, her return trip, will lecture at Chautauqua 
during the week of August 5. 

Plans by which the women of the Univer- 
sity of Chicago may aid in the defense and 
preservation of the nation, which were out- 
Hned in the May Journal, are already being 
realized, one hundred and thirty women of 
the University having registered for work 
in First Aid, ninety for Social Service in War 
Time, twenty-five for Food Conservation 
and Production, and twenty-five for Volun- 
tary Infant Welfare work. Several other 
groups of women have already enrolled and 
are being organized. 

Of the 600 students at Goucher College, 
550 signed the Preparedness Pledge (see page 
326) and were enrolled in the following extra- 
curriculum classes in Specific Preparedness: 
agriculture, nutrition and food values, clin- 
ical work, wireless telegraphy, accounting, 
foreign languages, social service, mechanism 
of automobiles, tjT>ewriting. 

Between eighty and one hundred of the 
Mount Holyoke students signed the "Gou- 
cher Pledge." It is expected that next 
autumn more will enlist upon some physical 
preparedness pledge of that sort. 

For the Summer Session of 1917, which 
begins July 9, Teachers College is offering 
a greater number and variety of coursest han 
ever before. There will be no decrease what- 
ever in this offering due to the present st-ate 
of war. The full Summer Session of Teachers 
College and other parts of Columbia Uni 
versity will be conducted as usual. 

For the academic year 1917-18, which 
begins September 19, Teachers College has 
also planned an extensive increase in its 
courses. This work will go on as originally 
planned without modification due to the war. 

The Conference of Community Centers, 
held in Chicago in April, 1917, recognized the 
need of home economics in its work by ap- 
pointing, for the first time, a Home Eco- 
nomics Committee of which Miss Alice 
Boughton is chairman. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX AUGUST, 1917 No. 8 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOUSE^ 

HELEN BINKERD YOUNG 
Architect, Home Economics Department, Cornell University 

Ever since home economics began to be studied, we have been trying 
to develop an intelligent standard of living and we have been tr}dng to 
fit this new scheme of things into houses that were never designed to 
take it. Consequently there has been a good deal of friction and lost 
motion. The struggle with imperfect dwellings has clogged our courses 
in sanitation and household management with much material that is 
in the end nothing more than a fresh patch on an old sore. Clearly 
this is not the final method of solution for an educational program on 
the house. So it has been found necessary to approach the problem the 
other way round; to base the development of the house on the new 
scheme of things, so that it shall be a true expression of our social, eco- 
nomic, and artistic needs. 

Since houses are intended to live in, the conception of the house must 
take its cue from our conception of living, the form must fit the func- 
tion. It would seem then, that to arrive at an intelligent imderstanding 
of the house, we must begin with a sort of theory or philosophy of the 
house as a background, just as we must have a sort of philosophy con- 
cerning food and concerning clothing. This means that our house unit 
must be capable of analysis, of organization, and of enhancement. 
We must be able to think in terms of a theoretical house before we can 
think safely in terms of an actual house. We must be able to think in 

1 Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, N. Y.. 1916. 

349 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

terms of space, of floor areas, of arrangement and of proportion, before 
we can safely think in terms of rooms. Matters of cost and details of 
planning are of minor importance in developing a house intended to be 
theoretically sound in principle. Economic and aesthetic considerations 
of a broad nature should be the governing factors. 

If we think of the house, not as rooms, but as an enclosed space, we 
find ourselves wondering as to the amount of this space, its general 
proportions, and its disposition for use into smaller parts. In other 
words we are faced with certain mass considerations of size, of shape, 
and of arrangement. 

It is with these mass considerations that our theory of the house 
should begin. 

Take for example the matter of size. Here the needs and means of 
the family are the chief factors to be considered. Theoretically what 
is wanted in any case, is an economic answer to the problem: an amount 
of space greater than which would involve waste and less than 
which would involve friction. Although it is easier to describe this 
efficiency area than it is to find it, it can nevertheless be approximated 
from several sources. 

Usually the amount of sleeping accommodation needed will be a guide. 
Thus if one knows that three bedrooms, bath, and hall can be developed 
within a minimum area of from 700 to 800 square feet, and that four 
bedrooms, bath, and hall can be developed within a minimum area of 
from 800 to 1000 square feet, one concludes that, based merely on the 
sleeping space item, a family of from two to six persons can be comfort- 
ably housed in a two story dwelling having from 700 to 1000 square feet 
of space on a floor. More area will bring larger or more rooms. 

The limiting cost of the dwelling is also a guide to its size. Thus, if 
a house of given standard in a given locality costs a certain amount per 
cubic foot, and a man has a fixed sum to spend, he can find out before 
starting to plan his house just how much cubic space he can buy with 
his money. 

The marketability of property also somewhat affects the size of house 
that is built. It has been found that in most localities, houses with four 
or more bedrooms are more marketable than those with two or three. 

Thus out of a discussion of the various factors that bear upon the gen- 
eral size of dwellings, one forms at length an intelligent conception of 
what is relatively a small house, or relatively a large house; of about 
what accommodation a house of given size should afford or about what 



1917] DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOUSE 351 

is the minimum size for a given problem. This background conception 
of size gives one a sense of scale and values, and serves as a check on 
crowded or wasteful planning. While in no sense a rule, it becomes, 
for the time being, the typical case or standard of measurement for size. 

In a similar manner the mass shape or form of the house may be an- 
alyzed. Thus the square house, the sHghtly rectangular house, the long 
house, and the angular or T-shaped house have each their own statement 
to make concerning the cost of building and upkeep, and concerning the 
general design. Here we find the first cost, the upkeep, and the paths 
of travel to be least in the perfectly square plan, increasing constantly 
as the differences in proportion increase and becoming greatest in vari- 
ous forms of angular plans. But however economical the square plan, 
it is a stupid t>'pe to design; while rectangular and irregular forms are 
both more designable and more picturesque when built. 

Out of this analysis and a discussion of such features as height and 
manner of roofing, one forms at length a comprehension of mass form as 
affected by economic and artistic considerations. 

As concerns the subject of mass arrangement, we turn at once to an 
organization of space that shall correspond to an organization of house 
acti\'ities. These may be broadly classed into three groups: work, 
recreation, and complete rest; hence the house space may be correspond- 
ingly organized into three groups, working area, recreative or living area, 
and sleeping area. While in reality these three groups merge and overlap, 
theoretically, at least, this brings three clear-cut di\dsions of space, each 
of which is distinct in use, in arrangement, in decorative character, and 
in furnishing or equipment. 

According to this arbitrary division, the working area should provide 
for those specific forms of labor that are necessary to the physical life 
of the household. To this area belong kitchen, pantry, laundry, stairs, 
and passage, and whatever storage or porch space is needed to complete 
the usefulness of these parts. Since, owing to the nature of the work, 
the worker must walk or stand most of the time, Hmited space, short 
paths of travel, and convenience of tools are important. As regards 
decoration, with the possible exception of the stairs, the working parts 
should be light colored, with clean, washable surfaces, and should be 
furnished preferably with fixed equipment. In plan, the salient char- 
acteristic of the working area should be com.pactness. 

The li\dng area should pro\dde for interests of a recreative, hospitable, 
or studious nature. To this area belong entrance hall, living and dining 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

room, library, study or den, and whatever storage or porch space is needed 
to complete the usefulness of those parts. Owing to the leisurely nature 
of its use, the living space should be generous in layout and both restful 
and decorative in general effect. In plan, the saKent characteristics of 
the living area should be spaciousness. 

The sleeping area should provide for those needs that are connected 
with personal bodily rest or refreshment. To this area belong bedroom, 
dressing room, bath, hall and whatever storage or porch space is needed 
to complete the usefulness of this group. Owing to the nature of its use, 
the sleeping space should be light, airy, retired, and intimate in its parts. 
In plan the salient characteristics of the sleeping area should be privacy. 

Thus the organization of the plan into functional areas furnishes the 
clue not only for the arrangement of the house, but for the decoration 
and furnishing as well. 

It will be found upon further investigation that these areas bear a 
certain flexible relation to each other in various types of dwellings: 
thus the proportion of the working space to living space is least in the 
apartment and greatest in the farmhouse, varying from about 10 to 
50 per cent, with the suburban dwelling about half-way between. Or 
comparing the sleeping space to the other areas we find that in a normal 
two story house, the sleeping area is equal to the sum of the living and 
working areas. Or, conversely, if the sleeping requirement is small or 
is less than the sum of these areas, or if it is relatively greater than the 
sum of these areas, we have a clue as to the relative possibilities of one, 
two, or three floor developments, which helps us to interpret the case ol 
the bungalow, apartment, cottage, or large residence. 

Going still further it will be found that each subdivision, unit, or room 
in each area can hkewise be examined and interpreted. Thus the func- 
tions of size and location of the hall and stairs can be discussed in a gen- 
eral and detailed way. Thus also may be discussed the relative size, 
proportion and inter-communication of the li\dng rooms, the meaning 
of axes and vistas, the relation of wall spaces and opem'ngs. Thus also 
may be analyzed the essential elements of the compact working area and 
the private sleeping area. 

After one has acquired a theoretical grasp of the subject of the house, 
definite problems in planning may be undertaken. Here the individual- 
ity of the house comes into play. The development of a house to suit 
a given site, a given family, or a given cost, introduces factors that give 
variation to each problem, so that each house should have an individual 



1917] DEVELOPMENT OF THE HOUSE 353 

solution. Of these factors, that of site should always be considered, 
for while people move from place to place, houses do not. Therefore, 
from the start, a dwelHng should be made to partake of a character 
peculiar and fitting to the spot on which it stands. 

It is not enough that a house shall be sound in principle. It should 
be individual in design as well. It should have style, personality, and 
decision, both inside and out. Design in houses corresponds to indi- 
viduality or personal magnetism in people. It is that quality which 
sets it apart from its fellows or Ufts it out of its type. By force of its 
design, a house expresses itself. It says something individual about 
the family or its site. It makes appropriate remarks about sunHght, 
view and garden, about vistas and proportions. Its function is to 
strengthen and to enhance. 

To the claims of exterior design the American people as a whole have 
been sadly unresponsive. In general, if houses have been convenient 
and livable within, it has sufficed. The result has been an epidemic of 
hard, unblinking structures, mere practical statements of shelter, utterly 
lacking in style and charm. Public taste has naturally been stupefied 
by the mere frequency of such unlovely models. The time has come 
when it should be the obligation of every property owner to attend to 
the aesthetic aspects of his place. It should be a matter of common 
acceptance that no man has a right to own property until he can afford 
to consider more than its commercial value. 

But a true conception of the house demands not only that a dwelling 
be WTU-planned and well-designed; it must also be soundly built. This 
implies an understanding of construction and a comprehension of the 
nature and use of building materials. An educational program which 
is considering construction should not confine itself to the practical 
details of building, but should examine new materials and detect their 
influence on the whole trend of building. Instead of being content with 
knowing how to finish and care for wood floors, we should rather in- 
quire whether wood is a reasonable material for floors. To be sure it 
is claimed that it is easy to walk on but it is we who do the walking, 
not the floor; so if we can find a durable material requiring less care, 
we had better put the wear on the people instead of the floor: we had 
better rubber-heel the world. How about the whole nature of wood? 
What is its normal use? How is it abused? How about frame houses 
and the problem of forest preservation? Is not the timber house al- 
ready economically a thing of the past — considering upkeep, insurance, 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS . [AugUSt 

and deterioration through a term of years? What is the significance 
of these new clay and concrete products? What their value to the 
coming generation? How will they affect the design, the upkeep, and 
the care of dwellings? It is better to discuss such themes with students 
than to fix in their minds the details of doors, windows, and the Hke, 
unless it can be made clear to them that these are but illustrations of 
the principles of construction in general. 

The regulation of personal property is not, however, our whole re- 
sponsibility. We should learn to mentally scour the field, and catch 
the trend of housing manifestations in the aggregate. We should learn 
to comprehend the significance of community schemes of planning; to 
understand that the erection of multiple dwellings, whether apartments, 
flats, tenements or two story dwellings, has a peculiar significance for 
the people of that community; to see the connection between housing 
and town planning and to detect and forestall problems of housing wher- 
ever a network of conditions brings them into play. As women who 
are to guide the homemaking population of the future, we should 
be in the van of every movement which aims at wholesome housing, 
not only for ourselves but for the whole population. 



WHY THE LARGE CALORIE? 

FREDERICK A. OSBORN 
Department of Physics, University of Washington 

The use of the metric system in scientific work with its definite names 
for the multiples and sub-multiples of the units, has become almost 
universal. The gram with the milligram and kilogram, the meter with 
the centimeter and kilometer, and the liter with the kilo-Hter are famil- 
iar terms to everyone. 

The physicist in making use of the metric terms in defining the physi- 
cal units has without exception accepted the recognized names for the 
multiples and sub-multiples of these units. The gram-centimeter as 
a unit of work has for its multiple, not the large gram-centimeter, but 
the kilogram-meter. This practice enables the student to see readily 
the magnitude relation between the two units and avoid any possible 
misunderstanding as to the particular magnitude used. 



1917] \YnY THE LARGE CALORIE? 355 

Among the units for quantity of heat, the calorie has long had, to the 
physicist, a definite and single meaning. If the numerical value for 
the amount of heat is large, he has expressed the amount in kilo-calories, 
or sometimes, in calories multiplied by the factor 10 raised to the proper 
power, as 45.6 X 10^ calories. 

For reasons that are unknown, at least to the writer, some branches 
of science have departed from the recognized and accepted names for 
the metric unit and have come to use the expression "large calorie" for 
the unit of quantity of heat 1000 times greater than the calorie. The 
correct term, kilo-calorie, is seldom or never used. Having selected an 
odd name for the kilo-calorie, the writers proceed along two absolutely 
contradictory lines to inform the unfortunate reader how the distinc- 
tion is to be made between the calorie and the kilo-calorie or large 
calorie. The quotations which follow will clearly show this. 

For measuring the heat value of foods, one employs, for convenience, the 
large calorie, i.e., the amount of heat required to raise 1 kilo of water 1°C., 
and one writes it Calories with a capital C. (Hutchison, Food and Dietetics, 
p. 4.) 

This use of the capital C is evidently to be a short hand device for 
the longer expression, kilo-calorie or large calorie, and seems satisfactory 
until the reader comes across the following: 

They assume that the food requirement of 100 men, women, and chil- 
dren is the same as that of 77 "men." Therefore each "man" received 
4000 calories daily (Lusk, Food Values, Science, April 13, 1917.) 

In \'iew of the statement above we rather naturally assume that the 
4000 calories mentioned do not mean large calories, and so come to 
wonder if it is an anti-fat diet that is being discussed. 

Again, let us get our information concerning the unit for the quan- 
tity of heat from the following: 

Since the measure for heat is a calorie, or the quantity of heat required 
to raise 1 Hter of water 1°C., etc. (Lusk, Fundamental Basis of Nutrition, 
p. 6.) 

This definition leads us to assume that evidently there is only one 
calorie after all, and hence there is no need whatever to try to distin- 
guish between it and another non-existing unit. Just as we are getting 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

convinced that we cannot make any mistake since the word calorie 
has but one meaning, we read in a footnote: 

When the term "calorie" is used in this work, it will be understood to 
mean the greater calorie. (Sherman, Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, 
p. 121.) 

Evidently there are two calories after all, and they may sometimes 
be distinguished by using a capital C for the larger one or by using a 
small c and adding a foot-note calling attention to the fact that the 
word calorie as used does not mean the calorie at all, but always a 
unit 1000 times larger. 

Finally, a worker in those branches of science that permit this loose 
use tells us that we are to pay no attention to capital or small C but 
to keep in mind this simple fact: The only calorie that is used by us is 
the large calorie, and so any uniform or special designation is unneces- 
sary. We see at last the end of our confusion and uncertainty. We 
therefore, at first, read with no question the statement in Vegetable 
Proteins, by Osborne, that gluienin from wheat has a fuel value of 
5543 calories per gram. Somehow, there comes into our minds the 
fact that hydrogen, which has the highest fuel value of all substances, 
is credited with but 34 of our undistinguished, non-capitalized but large 
calories. We now give up in despair. 

The writer's experience as a teacher of physics with over two hun- 
dred junior students of home economics has full}^ convinced him that 
the great majority of students are seriously confused b}'' the present loose 
use of the term calorie. He wants to know if there is any valid reason 
for the expression "large calorie" with its seemingly uncertain designa- 
tion. Why should not the term kilo-calorie always be used when a 
heat unit 1000 times the calorie is meant? 

If there is no valid reason for keeping the present indefinite term or 
for not using the definite and orthodox kilo-calorie, will not teachers of 
home economics insist on the use of the kilo-calorie in all of their work? 
The reform would be started and the poor physicist when he visits a 
standard ration exhibit and sees a placard, "this is a 100 calorie por- 
tion," would no longer be in doubt whether to select a half dozen of 
them for his lunch or, not being very hungry, to order only four or five 
thousand portions. 



1917] 



CHANGE IN THE TEST FOK SILK AND WOOL 



357 



A DESIRABLE CHANGE IN THE TEST FOR SILK 
AND WOOL 

JEAN G. MACKINNON 
Household Scieiwe Department, University of Illinois 

When testing for the presence of cotton in wool materials, the average 
class in textiles uses the KOH test as given in such standard texts as 
Matthews' Textile Fibers, Dannerth's Methods of Textile Chemistry, 
or Woolman and McGowan's Textiles. The directions for the experi- 
ment in each of these texts state that the sample to be tested should be 
boiled for fifteen to twenty minutes in a 5 per cent KOH solution, keep- 
ing the volume of the solution constant by using a reflux condenser. If 
the test is quantitative, then a correction of 3 to 5 per cent of its weight 
is added to the weight of the cotton residue in order to make up for 
any loss in weight which the cotton may suffer in the long boiling 
in the KOH solution. When following these directions it is always 
very evident that the wool is destroyed a number of minutes before 
the expiration of the time allowed for the reaction, and the question 
naturally arises whether the same concentration of KOH solution 
could not be used for a shorter period of time, or a more dilute solution 
for the same period of time, and if these changes were made, what 
effect they would have on the loss in weight of the cotton residue. 

A study' was made on the first phase of this question, and experiments, 
carried on to determine whether a 5 per cent solution of KOH would 
not destroy wool and silk in a shorter period of time. Fifty tests each 
were made with samples from six all wool fabrics and six wool and cot- 
ton fabrics. These materials included batiste, challie, flannel, shep- 
herd's plaid of different grades, striped wool material, tweeds, and dan- 
ish cloth. Similar tests were made with silk fabrics. In this case the 
materials used were moire, taffeta, poplin, pussy willow, messaUne, 
crepe, and crepe de chine. The results were as follows: 

Result of shortening time 



MATERIAL 


CONCENTRATION KOH 
SOLUTION 


TIME 


RESULT 


Wool 

Silk 


per cent 
5 
5 


min. 
2 
4 


Destroyed 
Destroyed 



^ L. A. Taggart and J. G. MacKannon, Iowa State College. 



358 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



Since silk is always characterized by a greater resistance to alkalis 
than wool, it could hardly be expected to be acted upon in as short a 
time. However, it did disappear in four minutes, while wool required 
only two minutes of boiling. 

The second phase of the question was whether a more dilute solu- 
tion of the alkali could be used for the time stated in the directions. 
In this case the same materials and the same number of tests were made 
as with the 5 per cent KOH solution, the only change being in the 
concentration of the KOH solution. Experiments were made with 
1 per cent, 2 per cent, and 3 per cent KOH and gave the following results: 





Result of weakening solution 




MATERIAL 


CONCENTRATION KOH 
SOLUTION 


TIME 


RESULT 




per cent 


min. 




Wool 


1 


20 


Destroyed 


Silk 


1 


20 


Not destroyed 


Wool 


2 


10 


Destroyed 


Silk 


2 


15-20 


Destroyed 


Wool 


3 


4 


Destroyed 


Silk 


3 


10-15 


Destroyed 



Again we notice the resistance of silk to the boiling alkali solution. 
The time required for the 1 per cent solution to destroy silk was not 
determined as it seemed impractical for most class work to increase 
the time element. The variation of time in the results for the 2 per 
cent solution was due to the proportion of Tussar silk present. 

The last part of the problem was to discover the effect of this de- 
crease of time of boiling of the 5 per cent KOH solution on the loss in 
weight of the cotton residue. The results of this part of the experi- 
ment were variable. 



5ries 


Average 


Series 


Average 




per cent 




percent 


1 


1.23 


5 


1.51 


2 


1.47 


6 


1.00 


3 


1.14 


7 


0.98 


4 


1.30 


8 


0.96 



Each series consisted of 10 experiments with the same cotton material. 
This loss in weight is undoubtedly affected by the absorption of KOH by 
the cotton and is a factor which will have to be considered before any 
accurate determination can be made. 



1917] A HOUSEKEEPING CENTER 359 

It is very evident from these results that in handling the ever in- 
creasing numbers of students in textile chemistry, a decrease may be 
made in the time element in the laboratory directions, and, instead of 
boiling the wool samples for fifteen to twenty minutes in a 5 per cent 
solution of KOH, they may be boiled for two minutes. In the case of 
silk, the directions may be changed to four minutes of boiling in the 
5 per cent KOH solution instead of the twenty minutes. If economy 
of material is to be considered, the samples may be boiled for twenty 
minutes in a 1 per cent KOH solution if wool is being tested, and a 2 
per cent KOH solution in the case of silk. If quantitative determina- 
tions are being made and the time of boiling in the 5 per cent KOH 
solution is reduced to two minutes, the correction for the loss in weight 
in the cotton residue is probably 1 to 1.5 per cent rather than 3 to 5 
per cent. 



A HOUSEKEEPING CENTER 

AMY R. GOTT 
Rockford College, Rockford, Illinois 

One who reads the series of books on Practical Homemaking by Miss 
Mabel Hyde Ejttredge, or who visits the housekeeping centers estab- 
lished tlirough her influence in the New York schools, is impressed by 
the value of such a method of teaching and usually filled with a desire 
to follow this movement for better training in homemaking for grade 
children, by the establishment of such an equipment in her own locahty. 

The difficulties confronting a teacher wishing to carry out such a 
project are many, especially since it is often necessary to interest a 
community before the necessary funds are forthcoming. The follow- 
ing account is given to show that a project may be started with the 
expenditure of a small amount of money, coupled with a large amount of 
initiative. 

The young women majoring in home economics in Rockford College, 
have estabhshed a small homemaking school to be used in connection 
with their practice teaching in the public schools. A three room house 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

in the factory district is rented at a small sum, and furnished simply, 
but as far as possible in conformity with the dictates of good taste. The 
rent is supplied by an interested friend, and the total sum expended 
for furniture was about $35. This was made possible by loaned furni- 
ture, use of the facilities offered by the second hand stores, and a few 
gifts. 

The kitchen contains a coal range which heats the house, two work 
tables, a stool, and garbage can, with a small simply furnished pantry 
and cleaning closet. The dining room has a table and chairs with some 
rocking chairs, as this room must be the living room as well. The bed- 
room is very simple, but as pretty as it could be made with cretonne and 
dimity. Since the house has no modern plumbing, there are all the 
problems in sanitation to be found in the humblest home. The house 
linen, bedding, and hangings are plain and inexpensive, but neatly 
made and immaculate. The pictures make an appeal to a child's 
imagination, and convey an idea of the beauty cf home life. 

Each class consists of girls from ten to twelve years of age. A series 
of lessons in cooking is planned with a meal in view, and in each lesson 
something is done with that as a goal. This means that all the details 
concerning a meal in the home are emphasized, from the marketing, 
preparation, and service of the meal, to the clearing away and the dis- 
posal of the garbage. The children may invite guests to the final meal, 
making it an event in their school life. Another time they prepare for 
a party, and another for a picnic lunch. 

Lessons are planned also on cleaning, care of the bedroom, care of 
the baby, and any other phases of home making which seem especially 
needed by the children. 

On account of the size of the pubHc school classes, it has not been found 
that the homemaking school can take the place of laboratory classes, 
but it provides an excellent means of making the lessons more real and 
of providing a motive for them. As has been said, one purpose of 
teaching home economics in the grades is to develop a popular con- 
viction as to the need for training in homemaking when the time 
comes for a girl to make a home, after her four or five years in in- 
dustry. As a means of developing that conviction, we have found the 
housekeeping center excellent. 



1917] THE LUNCHEON AS A PROJECT IN EDUCATION 361 

THE LUNCHEON AS A PROJECT IN ELEMENTARY AND 
SECONDARY EDUCATION^ 

JENNY H. SNOW 
Supervisor Household Arts, Chicago Public Schools 

I sometimes think that Colonel Parker, one of the greatest educators of 
our times, had a vision of the possibilities of a real school way beyond 
what he gave to his students. That last year of his Ufe a small group of 
us sat in the class room and listened as he tried to impress upon us that 
the education of the whole child took place only when that child had a 
motive for the doing of the tasks asked of him. Colonel Parker's motive 
and the present "project" seem to me to be closely related if not one 
and the same thing. 

Could a child have a better motive for the preparation of food in 
school than the noonday luncheon? The answer to this question may 
be a varied one. The subject must be studied from many standpoints. 
The conditions in a rural place and in a large city are entirely different 
and the ordinary size town has the most difficult problems of all. 

May I speak from the standpoint of the large city and tell you some 
of the things we have been doing and are planning to do in Chicago? 

We have two hnes of work where the luncheon has been used as a 
project in teaching food. One of these is in the Lucy Flower Technical 
High School. Miss Wells, Principal of the High School, gives this 
account of it. 

The lunchroom itseK shows one of the most obvious and necessary applica- 
tions of school activity to daily needs. Its service is organized as regular 
classwork under the charge of a teacher in the department of household 
science. Classes that have already- had some training in the laboratory 
kitchen and the laundry prepare the noon meal for the teachers and pupils 
who wish to buy. For obvious reasons the lunchroom is not open to unin- 
vited outsiders. A student manager for the day plans the menu, dees the 
necessary marketing, assigns to the other members of the class the various 
tasks in the processes of preparation, and is responsible for placing the lunch 
on the serving tables at the end of the hour and a hah of time allotted to the 
work. In the more advanced of the two "lunchroom classes" the managers 
are required to keep the expense accounts and to balance them once a week 
with the office. 

When the lunch period is over, girls from the lowest class of the prevocational 

^ Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, Kansas City, 
March, 1917. 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

department of the school wash the dishes and put the lunchrooni and kitchen 
to rights. For this service they are paid at the rate of five cents for forty- 
five minutes' work. No girl is expected to work longer than this period in 
any one day. Visitors who smile at the scale of wages become respectful when 
they consider that five cents five times a week pays half a girl's carfare, and 
that without this help some girls could not remain in school. The lunchroom, 
opened November 10, 1911, has already paid to students for service rendered 
over $400 besides supplying free lunches to all who help in the preparation of 
the food. 

The financial aid is, however, the least benefit derived from their lunchroom 
service. They are trained to work quickly and thoroughly. They make the 
glass and silver shine. They wash the dish cloths and dish wipers so carefully 
that they will bear inspection at any time. The work must be finished in 
fifty minutes. Sometimes the helpers work so fast that the teacher who is 
with them has time to read aloud for a few minutes from an entertaining book 
that has nothing to do with lessons. Not infrequently the girls are left to do 
their work entirely alone, and nothing gives the principal of the school greater 
satisfaction than to send a visitor into the kitchen to see what is going on 
while she remains out of sight and hearing. Do girls ever object to the lunch- 
room work? Occasionally, but when such a case arises, the student is excused 
from the work until her objection disappears in the face of public opinion. 
Usually we have a waiting list of pupils who are anxious to help. Self-respect, 
power, responsibility, dignity, and a distinct quickening in other phases of 
work — these are the fruits of service in the lunchroom. 

We all contribute to the lunchroom at one time or another, and we are all 
served by the lunchroom by one way or another. Its service to us, and our 
service through it to each other, is concrete, necessary, and pleasant. It 
gives point and meaning to the rest of the work in household science. The 
lunchroom is in truth the center of our family life. 

The conditions here have been almost ideal — the school has been 
small enough so that the problems involved could actually be handled 
by the students under the direction of a very skillful teacher. 

Another entirely different phase of the work is the preparation of 
teachers' luncheon trays once a week by the elementary cooking classes. 
This was started to meet two needs — first, to give the teachers a hot 
luncheon once a week, and second, to help finance the department. 
Sometimes the finances are low and the cooking classes are cut to | cent 
per pupil per lesson. Have you ever tried to give lessons at ^ cent 
each? It is a good problem in mathematics for the teacher but that is 
its only value. 



1917] THE LUNCHEON AS A PROJECT IN EDUCATION 363 

I believe thoroughly in this plan of luncheon trays; it allows the chil- 
dren to work in larger amounts, and helps to standardize their finished 
products. They learn more about the preparing of meals and the cost 
of food materials than in any other way possible in large city schools. 
There is a pathetic side to this, as there is to most things in Hfe, for a 
hungry child may prepare one of these trays for some one else to eat. 

The penny luncheons and recess luncheons were started simply to 
meet the needs of hungry, underfed children. 

One of our critic schools is in an Itahan district, and one morning I 
visited four or five first grade rooms with the principal. She asked 
the children what they had had for breakfast, and, with only three or 
four exceptions, over two hundred six year old children answered "Coffee 
and cake." Cake means white rolls with sugar frosting. When one 
realizes that liquor had been put in most of that coffee is it any wonder 
that the children get sleepy in school and seem stupid? 

The problem that faced us was "What are we going to do for these 
children?" A recess luncheon and a noon penny and two penny lunch- 
eon were started in that school. This only touches the problem, but it 
helps somewhat. 

Can those luncheons be made a project in education? No, they 
can not. The making of soup or cocoa for from four to six hundred 
children has no educational value for the ten year old child. It is a 
purely mechanical process that can be done by the least expensive kind 
of labor under the supervision of the teacher of home economics. Nor 
is the daily washing of dishes for 600 of any educational value. 

A great danger, and one to which we must open our eyes is the use of 
children in the schools for processes which have no real value as training 
or education. 

In another one of our critic schools we have tried the feeding of certain 
groups of children. These are children who show by certain tests 
that they are below normal. The blood test is taken by the school 
doctor outside of school time, and the rest of the tests are given by the 
psychology department. The Parent-Teacher Association pays for 
the food. The advanced students of the Household Arts Department 
at the Normal College prepare and serve the food, under the direction 
of the critic teacher. A careful record is kept of each child and of the 
kind and amount of food given. The tests are repeated at certain 
intervals. Decided improvement is shown very quickly both in the 
response to the tests and in the child's work in school. We wonder 



364 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

in these times of efficiency when educators are going to wak'- up to the 
fact that it is a great waste to try to teach hungry, underfed children. 

A large problem that faces us in Chicago is the high school lunch 
rooms. These are being taken over by the Board of Education and put 
under the direction of a household science teacher. Just how far these 
lunch rooms can be used as a project in education is still a question. 
I fail to see in the regular high school how very much use can be made 
of them from that standpoint. A close relation between class work and 
lunch room is possible. The lunch room can use the products of the 
class work, thus allowing the children to work in larger quantities and 
with the incentive for good finished products. 

The whole subject of the noon day luncheon is a much larger one than 
is represented by this discussion. It is one that must be taken up by the 
training schools for teachers. Our city teachers today must be able to 
run lunch rooms and they must be trained for it. 



NEW TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

(For future arithmetics) 

4 ears of corn = 1-pint of milk 10 lumps of soft coal = 1 lump of hard coal 

4 pints of milk = 1 egg 2 lumps of hard coal = 1 16-oz. gold nugget 
12 eggs = 1 pound of butter 

128 pounds of butter = 1 barrel of flour 

2 barrels of flour = 1 potato 

2 potatoes = 1 16-carat diamond 10 rusty pen points = 1 blotter 

6 blotters = 1 3c. postage stamp 

6 3c. postage stamps = 1 bottle of ink 

10 bottles of ink = 1 bushel of waste 

2 pans of ashes = 1 match 25 bushels of waste paper 

10 matches = 1 stick of kindling paper = 1 pound of news 

12 sticks of kindling = 1 shovel of coal 10 pounds of news print 

160 shovels of coal slack print = 1 Ford automobile 
slack = 1 lump of soft coal 



1917] WHAT THE HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER CAN DO 365 

WHAT THE HOME ECONOMICS TEACHER CAN DG^ 

One of the criticisms which the home economics teacher meets most 
frequently is that she is impractical and extravagant in the use of food 
products. Such criticism may have been deserved at one period in the 
teaching of foods and cookery, but for some years there has been a 
growing emphasis on questions of practical economy. Nevertheless, 
the present crisis in the food situation comes as a direct challenge to 
all teachers of foods and cookery in the United States. Their scientific 
knowledge, their technical training, and their close relation to the homes 
of the community in which they teach, give them a unique opportunity 
to serve their country at the present time. The value of the home 
economics courses in our schools will be put to the test as never before, 
and all who have had the privilege of pursuing such courses, from the 
child in the grades to the college graduate, will be expected to contribute 
to the solution of the national problem. . . . 

For the large majority of teachers of home economics increased em- 
phasis on the subjects which form a legitimate part of the daily in- 
struction in the classroom, and the assistance that they can render to 
those outside the schools along similar Unes will be the best ser\'ice 
they can render. 

Proper food selection and service, to help in the elimination of waste 
and the control of extravagance, are the basic factors that should re- 
ceive emphasis in every school kitchen. The factors having to do with 
the regulation of cost must be studied in so far as possible. The local 
market should be used as a class laboratory to a greater degree than has 
yet been done in our home economics teaching, and wise buying 
should be emphasized as both an individual necessity and a national 
responsibility. 

A minimum food standard for effective work must be discussed. A 
study must be made of the methods of cooking for the combined pur- 
poses of elimination of waste, improving the digestibility of foods, and 
simplifying combinations, in such a manner that both time and materials 
are economized. The substitution of those foods which will be plenti- 
ful for those of which there is apt to be a scarcity during the coming 
seasons must be urged. The products of the home garden should be 
utilized to the fullest extent, all the surplus — that for which there is no 

^ From Home Economics Letter No. 19, issued by the Bureau of Education, Washington, 
D. C. 



366 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

need during the summer months — being dried or canned for winter 
months. 

Simplicity in the planning of meals and in the service of foods is of as 
great importance as care in cooking. Those features of service which 
only multiply the factors of expense without increasing personal com- 
fort and social satisfaction should receive condemnation in our home 
economics courses and the extravagances to which they lead should be 
pointed out as dangerous to the development of the proper spirit of 
economy. 

It is not sufficient that the home economics instructor emphasize 
the fact that from the time the food enters the market until it is con- 
sumed at our tables there is danger of wastefulness in every step of its 
handling, that each process in its preparation by the housekeeper for 
use at table involves problems worthy of careful study, and that in- 
dividual and community habits of eating must be intelligently controlled; 
she must also be prepared to offer a constructi\e program for the im- 
mediate improvement of conditions within her own community, en- 
hsting the active cooperation of all of her students and the hearty 
endorsement of their parents. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

WE'RE ALL IN THE SAME BOAT 

Our first military need in this crisis is an adequate food supply. Euro- 
pean nations have learned by bitter experience that the cutting down of 
the cost of food to the consumer below a paying price to the farmer, 
means nothing less than sawing off the Umb on which both consumer 
and producer are sitting. 

The consumer must be made to understand that unless he pays fair 
prices, the farmer can not and will not sow. And the farmer must be 
made to reahze that unless he sows, the city consumer can not live to 
do his part for the national defense. We are all in the same boat, those 
who buy food and those who grow or raise it. If anyone scuttles it we 
shall all sink. 

The nation needs food, needs it for our civilian population, for the 
neutral countries, for our soldiers, and for the soldiers of our AlKes who 
daily are dying by the thousands fighting our battles. The experience 
of other nations indicates that to get food it may become necessary to 
guarantee to the producer a price high enough to repay him for his labor 
and expense, plus a reasonable profit. The next thing is to market it at 
the smallest possible advance over its cost on the farm. The third step 
is to conserve our food products, to eliminate over-eating, unintelhgent 
eating, and all other forms of waste, 

When there is too little food the nation must go hungry. When there 
is enough food but no efiicient system of marketing it, again the nation 
goes hungry, while crops rot on the ground. Even when there is enough 
food and it is efficiently distributed, the nation may go hungry tomorrow 
if its people gorge and waste today. 

From the standpoint of both the consumer and the farmer, the Gov- 
ernment should not be without power to guarantee the producer that 
for his wheat and for his corn, for at least his non-perishable crops, he 
should be certain of paying prices. If the emergency demands it, this 
power should be exercised, in order to protect the consumer by insuring 
the production of food and the farmer by insuring a return for his in- 
vestment and his labor. 

367 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

But the Government must also eliminate those middlemen standing 
between the farmer and the consumer who corner food products and 
practice extortion. The Government is already doing everything pos- 
sible to bring the producer and the consumer together for their mutual 
benefit. The Government does not propose, so far as the power within 
it lies, to permit one dollar to go to any man who fails to perform a 
definite social service. 

No suggestion has ever been made to impose prices lower than the 
prices received by farmers for foodstuffs during the past year. Rather 
the reverse. If the Government had the power to fix a maximum 
price, it would use this power as a club, to be applied only in individual 
cases where it was clear that an individual or a corporation had cornered 
foodstuffs or was practicing extortion. After each particular abuse 
had been controlled by the exercise of this power, the incident would 
be closed. Any further exercise of such power would depend upon the 
appearance of another similar concrete cond'tion. Such maximum 
price-fixing power would not hurt the farmer nor any one else except the 
disloyal manipulator of foodstuffs. 

If the Executive has adequate power, it is believed that it will be able 
to keep the prices of food staples from being artificially raised by specu- 
lators and gamblers, without having resource to the additional power to 
establish maximum rates. In asking Congress to confer such power, 
the purpose was to use it only as a last resort. 

In order to win this war the Government and the people — the pro- 
ducer, distributor, and consumer alike — must pull together. Any citi- 
zen or group of citizens who pulls in the wrong direction is pulling away 
from victory. The consumer should help to see to it that the farmer 
gets reasonable prices for his products. The farmer likewise should 
throw his influence into the scale and help the Government to protect 
the consumer from the extortion of unscrupulous and disloyal food 
speculators and food cornerers. 

Carl Vrooman, 
Assistant Secretary of Agriculture. 



1917] THE HOUSEWIFE AND THE FISH PROBLEM 369 

THE HOUSEWIFE AND THE FISH PROBLEM 

HENRY B. WARD 

Special Investigator, United States Bureau of Fisheries, and Head of the Department of 
Zoology, University of Illinois 

Universal emphasis is being laid today upon the injunction, eliminate 
waste, but in discussing the fish problem I would substitute for this the 
injunction, eliminate prejudice. Not that there is no waste, but that 
is a feature which concerns chiefly the fisherman and the fish-distribut- 
ing agencies, whereas the aspects of the problem that appeal to the 
homemaker include only in a minor degree the question of food wasted. 

There is indeed a fish problem and it concerns all but a small portion 
of our country. In those locaHties that are immediately adjacent to the 
ocean or to a few of the famous fish-producing streams of the eastern 
and western coasts, one finds a fairly regular consumption of fish food, 
though even here it is not so generous as it deserves to be when the 
quality of the food and its reasonable cost are properly weighed. But 
throughout the length and breadth of the land away from the narrow 
seashore zone it is only in isolated localities that much if any attention 
has been paid to this type of food. Most families plan for fish once a 
week or less frequently; if they do not find just what they want avail- 
able, they are apt to pass it by, and meat is substituted. Thus for one 
cause or another the average fish consumption in the interior portion 
of the country falls far below that which obtains in the Old World, or 
that which should exist here when our extensive and splendid supply 
of fish food is taken into account. 

This condition is partly one of indifference or carelessness, fostered 
by the fact that the limited demand for fish food has resulted in leaving 
the market undeveloped so that it is sometimes difficult to secure fish; 
but it is also in good part due to certain very definite prejudices that 
throughout the central section, at least, meet one frequently and are 
repeated with positiveness in every discussion on the topic. It is not 
my intention to speak of the distinctly absurd prejudices like that which 
attributes the transmission and spread of cancer to fish food; such a 
prejudice is purely imaginary, is not supported by a scintilla of scientific 
evidence, and is refuted in the clearest fashion by the statistical facts 
concerning the occurrence and frequency of cancer in various regions. 



370 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Nor would I lay too great an emphasis upon the rather easy criticism 
which is frequently heard that fish food is not to be obtained in good 
condition. This is an excuse rather than a prejudice, in most cases. 
It is true, of course, that food products in general are often not well 
cared for, Like fruit and vegetables exposed on outside stands to the 
influence of wind and weather, or like meat laid out on counters subject 
to frequent \'isit and contamination by flies, conditions which are neither 
hygienic nor attractive. Under similar conditions, the best fish that 
the wholesaler can furnish will reach the consumer in a condition that 
is not calculated to command approval. But all in all, fish food is 
probably as well handled as any other type, and when reasonably cared 
for is thoroughly hygienic and also attractive to the consumer. 

The first of the prejudices I have in mind is that fish should be pur- 
chased only on Friday. The work of the fisherman covers more than a 
single day in the week, and to be efl&cient from the economic standpoint 
and satisfactory for the public, the fish business should be encouraged 
by the distribution of the demand over a larger part of the time. If a 
meatless day is to be adopted, let it be Tuesday; but there is much to 
commend the slogan, "Every day a fish day." 

Another prejudice is the view of the indi\'idual housekeeper that she 
must always have a given kind and size of fish. Sometimes it is possible 
to meet her wishes in this respect but there are other parts of the year 
in which it is impossible, for instance, to get small trout, and some other 
type should be substituted until the individual variety comes into the 
market again in the course of events. Certain fish are *'in season" 
just as well as certain meats. 

One of the most serious prejudices that limit the satisfactory de- 
velopment of fish-producing and distributing industries is based on the 
scanty knowledge of fish possessed by the average housewife. She has 
learned to know one or two sorts, and, failing to find those or ascertaining 
that at the particular moment the price of her favorite type of fish has 
gone up beyond what she expected, she refuses to consider anything else 
for the day at least and gives up fish food entirely. She has lost a splendid 
opportunity, for among our fish there are many sorts not known to her 
by name that furnish food that is as good as some of the types with 
which she is famiHar, or that might even be considered better. 

The Bureau of Fisheries has recently published a series of Economic 
Circulars for the purpose of educating the pubhc on the value of various 
fish and the best methods for preparing each kind. One of these em- 



1917] THE HOUSEWIFE AND THE FISH PROBLEM 371 

phasizes the value of the burbot. This is a fresh-water fish and be- 
longs to the cod family. It is indeed the only representative of that 
group which occurs outside of the sea. The flesh is firm, white, very 
palatable, and in continental Europe has long been regarded as a dehcacy. 
Yet in this country the demand for the fish up to the present time is 
very low. It should be far more widely known and used, as it deserves 
in every way the praise bestowed upon it. As it is placed on the market 
skinned, dressed, and headless, there is practically no waste and the 
initial cost is low so that it merits especial consideration in these days of 
rising prices. 

Another fish of unrecognized worth in the Mississippi basin is the 
bowfin, which rejoices in a score of other names in various localities. It 
is scientifically of great interest because of its isolated position, not being 
related to any other fish in the modern world. In the fresh condition 
its flesh has been condemned as soft and pasty; but smoked and salted 
according to the simple method devised at the Fairport (Iowa) Biological 
Station it acquires a rich flavor which leads even the most prejudiced to 
acclaim its merits. Incidentally one may note here that the preserva- 
tion of fish by curing, salting, and smoking, which is almost a lost art in 
our country, should be generally encouraged, as it adds distinctly to the 
amount and variety of foods available at moderate prices. 

The much abused carp is, after all, a fine fish when properly prepared 
for the table. In spite of the high esteem in which it is held abroad, 
that which is caught in Ilhnois is shipped mainly to New York because 
of the prejudice against it in local markets. In a bulletin giving the 
results of experiments on the fish in the Household Science Department 
of the University of IlHnois, Goldthwaite says, "Properly cooked, carp 
is a well-flavored fish of good texture, and one which need not be shunned 
because of the dangerous forked bones." 

There is every reason to encourage the more general use of the common 
fish of pond and river as they are easily obtained, the supply can in 
most places be readily increased through local activities, and both food 
value and quality are high. The common catfish has, for instance, a 
total food value of 1100 calories per pound, being thus actually slightly 
superior to meats except pork, though the calories due to protein are 
less than in meats and other fish. 

Even among ocean fish there have been recent valuable additions to 
the list of available types. Perhaps the most famous example is the 
tile fish, which, once apparently exterminated by a supposed shift in the 



372 THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Gulf Stream, has become reestablished on its old grounds wilhin very- 
recent years. It is a large deep-water fish that possesses excellent food 
qualities and will soon be in markets from the Atlantic coast as far 
west as the Mississippi at least. 

Another new applicant for public favor comes from the deep waters 
of the Pacific. It is the sablefish, wrongly called the black cod by early 
settlers and fishermen. In truth its rich, oil-filled flesh contrasts strongly 
with the dry meat of the cod and demands very different preparation. 
Of the sablefish the Department of Home Economics at the University 
of Washington says, "It is suitable for the humblest home on account 
of its price, and for the milHonaire's table from its fineness of texture 
and delicious flavor." It ships well and may be had fresh or frozen as 
far east as New York and New England. In this case as in others it is 
important to buy the fish still frozen and thaw it in cold water just 
before it is used. Housewives who adopt this method will find frozen 
fish really equal to the fresh product. 

Among canned fish there has appeared a new product in the form of 
the grayfish which is now, after two years of experimental work, being 
widely distributed. It is meeting with great favor and promises to 
afford an abundant supply of fish food. Though used on the shores of the 
Mediterranean since ancient times, it has only recently come into notice 
here. It is marketed fresh in the coastal region and is to become avail- 
able in smoked form this year. It is most excellent as well as very 
reasonable in price. This is the first of the unused types of fish which the 
Bureau of Fisheries tested and has been persuading the pubHc to try. 
The success of the effort is shown in the fact that the pack of last year 
was exhausted before the new pack came on the market. The supply 
of these fish is very large and the increasing demands of the market can 
easily be met. 

The utilization of these new fish should be advocated far and wide; 
it is not an experiment, as all of them have been used for years elsewhere 
and are rapidly growing in pubhc favor here also. While prevailing 
high prices have opened the way for the favorable reception of such 
fish as can be had on more favorable terms, even if they bear strange 
names, their merit assures their position in public favor long after the 
present crisis has past. 



1917] THE TIN CAN 373 

THE TIN CAN 

CARRIE ALBERTA LYFORD 
Specialist in Home Economics, United States Bureau of Education 

"Before men can fight they must be fed. How few people realize 
that the feeding of a great people, either in peace or war, is largely a 
metallurgical problem with which the steel industry is primarily con- 
cerned! Not only much of our harvest yields but also the major portion 
of our annual sea food must be packed and preserved in tinned cans. 
A "tin can" is really made of sheet steel covered over with a thin wash 
of tin, and no other metal known can be used as a substitute. In 
spite of the fact that a tinned can carries only a small weight of tin, so 
great is our canning industry that in 1914 we imported from overseas 
52,919 tons of this metal, valued at about $33,000,000. Tin is not 
found in paying quantities in the United States, and in 1914 only 157 
tons were produced in Alaska. The principal world source is in the 
East Indies and the Malay States, and is controlled by Great Britain. 
Tin ore is also found in BoH\ia and is at present being imported, and 
smelted in New Jersey, but thus far tin from this source is only a small 
factor in a great industry. As has been shown, the question of our tin 
supply is a most important factor in our food supply." 

The foregoing statement is quoted from a paper presented before 
The Franklin Institute by Dr. Allerton S. Cushman, Director of The 
Institute of Industrial Research, Washington, D. C. Dr. Cushman 
has said further that the additional canning necessary during the war 
makes a greatly increased drain upon the supply of tin. For our do- 
domestic production 3.6 billion cans were required for food products 
in 1914. It is estimated that from six to seven billion cans will be re- 
quired for the year 1917. It will be necessary to can food for an army 
of 1,000,000 men. The questions arise. Can a sufficient amount of tin 
be procured? Can unnecessary uses of tin be stopped? As unneces- 
sary uses, the Institute of Industrial Research cites the use of tin for 
kerosene cans (chiefly exported), for tobacco, baking powder, and other 
dry powders. Once used, tin cans are of comparatively little value, 
though they may be heated in very large numbers to recover the solder 
and tin. The iron also vdW bring something for rough purposes. 

At the recent conference in Washington of Government officials and 
tin can and tinplate manufacturers and representatives of the tinning 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

trade, instructions were given to prepare plants to exercise full and 
intensified capacity in order to meet the increased demand for tin cans 
to contain the food for the armies and the star\'ing nations of Europe. 

In view of the shortage of the tin supply and the great demand for 
shipments of canned goods to the allies and to the training camps at 
home and abroad, the housekeeper may help by obser\ing the following 
rules: 

First. Use vegetables and fruits freely while they are in season and 
abundant. 

Second. Use glass jars to fan all necessary surplus from the garden, 
or preserve by drying. 

Third. Learn to use dried vegetables and fruit and to use them in a 
variety of ways. 

Fourth. Increase the number of dishes in which winter vegetables 
are used and let them form a large part of the diet during the winter 
months. Winter vegetables that keep for months without canning 
may be prepared in appetizing form to give the needed variety. 

Fifth. Do not demand those commercial goods in tin containers 
that can be perfect^ well kept in containers of other materials. 

Sixth. Do not demand soups or other liquid foods in cans if the 
material that enters into their composition can be obtained in more 
condensed form. 

Seventh. Study the comparative cost and nutritive value of fresh 
meat and canned meat and use canned meat only when absolutely 
necessary. 

Eighth. Make every effort to use new or little used fresh foods that 
are easily available and inexpensive. As far as possible substitute 
such foods for those canned foods that have been used in large quantities. 



Fill every can full of food. The can supply warrants it; the law 
requires it; the National emergency demands it. — National Canners 
Association. 



1917] Harmalade and jam 375 

MARMALADE AND JAM 

Less Sug.ar and Some Salt 
isabel ely lord 

In April Dr. C. F. Langworthy called attention to an article in Foods 
and Cookery (an English magazine) on the saving in sugar effected in 
England by using salt for part of the sugar in the jam sent to the front. 
This was made a subject for experiment at the School of Household 
Arts, Pratt Institute, and the results tested by many people, and pro- 
nounced good. 

Method. Six ounces of sugar and \ ounce of salt were used with 1 
pound of fruit. The salt and sugar were added together, and the jam 
was made as usual. 

This should not be eaten until five or six days after making, since it 
will take that time for the characteristic salt flavor to disappear. 

The fruits used were strawberry, pineapple (with rhubarb and with 
apricot), orange and lemon. All were good, and there seems no reason to 
suppose that the method would not be equally successful with other 
fruits. 

Cost. With sugar at nine cents a pound, this saves two cents a glass 
over the usual proportion of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Where fruit costs Uttle or nothing, this makes the jam very cheap. 

Flavor. The jam is perhaps less rich, but it is very palatable. 

Food value. The jam, of course, loses decidedly in food value when 
the sugar is lessened, but as it is eaten usually to give flavor rather than 
to furnish energy, there seems no disadvantage in this as long as those 
who eat it know of the substitution: 

Brown sugar. The English account suggests using brown sugar, but 
this was not found advisable in the experiments. It gives a darker 
color to the jam, which is not attractive, and, with strawberry, pineapple, 
rhubarb, and apricot, it detracts from the flavor of the fruit. In orange 
marmalade it gave an over-sweet flavor. 



376 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORN MEAL BREAD 

MRS. F. L. STEVENS 
University of Illinois 

YEAST MIXTURE WITH MAGIC YEAST OR YEAST FOAM 



[August 



2 cups water 

1 cake dry yeast 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 



2 tablespoonfuls flour 

I cup boiled mashed potatoes 

\ teaspoonful salt 



Soak yeast in 1 cup of water. Mix dry ingredients, add potatoes and 
the other cup of water. Add soaked yeast, beating mixture thoroughly. 
Let rise over night. The yeast will be ready in the morning. 



BREAD 



1 cup lukewarm (scalded) milk 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

3 tablespoonfuls butter or lard 
1 teaspoonful salt 



1 cake dry yeast prepared according to 

above dir actions 
Flour 

1 cup corn meal cooked in 

2 cups water 



Mix ingredients, adding yeast mixture and flour to make a thin batter. 
Beat thoroughly with a spoon or egg beater, finally adding the scalded 
corn meal, which has been thoroughly cooled. Add flour and knead to 
make a firm, elastic dough. Let rise until the mass has doubled its bulk. 
Shape into loaves. Let rise again until the loaves have doubled their 
bulk. Bake. 



OUR PRIVILEGE AND OUR PATRIOTIC 
DUTY IS TO CONSERVE 

What? 

Food, Clothing, Health, Beauty, Higher Life. 
When? 

Every day. 
Where? 

Everywhere. 
Why? 

That life may be better worth the living. 

— Adapted from Chicago Headquarters, Women's Committee, 
Council of National Defense. 



STUDENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS 

MANUFACTURED SILK 

IRENE BJORKLUND 

University of Washington 

It is only of late years that manufactured silk has come to be of more 
than theoretical importance. That it is now practical is shown by the 
fact that in 1912 the world's product was 8,000 tons, at a value of 
$30,000,000.1 

Possessing a luster exceeding that of true silk, together with the abil- 
ity to take dyes easily and beautifully and the all important quahfi- 
cation of cheapness, manufactured silk has only to prove its durability 
and adaptabiHty. Durabihty, however, does not always mean today 
what it meant to the woman whose best, and often only, black silk dress 
was expected to last ten years or more. If hat braid of manufactured 
silk, for example, can do duty for two or three seasons, few indeed are the 
women who would ask more of it ; very few as a matter of fact who would 
expect or desire as much. For whether we like it or not, the rapidly 
changing fashions have a very marked effect upon our standards of value. 
The insistent demand for cheap silk hosiery, for example, has forced 
the manufacturers constantly to reduce the weight of silk used until 
black stockings may be more than semi-transparent, and occasionally 
has caused fraudulent over-weighting with mineral salts, greatly reducing 
the wearing quaHties of the silk. 

As the possible thinness of silk stockings approached its Hmit, sub- 
stitutes for silk were naturally sought and found. Two of these, highly 
mercerized cotton (most of the vegetable silk advertised), and artificial 
silk, are certainly a better purchase, at 50 cents a pair, than true silk 
at the same price. Manufactured silk hosiery bids fair to become a 
staple, but, with the exception of skirt and hat braid, it seems probable 
that the chief use of the fiber will be for knit goods novelties. Silk 
sweaters, for example, are so expensive if made of true silk that they are 
out of the question for the majority of people. Manufactured silk makes 

^ Fiber and Fabric — Dyeing of Artificial Silk, November 19, 1914. 

377 



378 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

them relatively cheap. Neckties, mufflers, and caps are some of the other 
novelties commonly made partly or wholly of this fiber. 

The brilliant luster of manufactured silk is used to advantage when 
the silk is combinnd with other fibers. For upholstery, where a close 
even weave is not required, it is sometimes used alone, and very fre- 
quently in combination with jute, hemp, and other fibers. Viscose plush 
is made with a cotton back. Since it is so decorative, artificial silk is 
widely used for stripes or small figures in cotton and wool materials. 
Interesting effects are produced by cross dyeing, for viscose threads 
of various colors may be woven into the undyed wool or silk, which can 
be subsequently dyed without affecting the cellulose silk, that, like 
cotton, requires a mordant. 

Another use for which manufactured silk promises to be valuable is 
for embroidery. The fiber is not phable enough to be used for very fine 
work but where the design requires bold strokes with heavy silk, beauti- 
ful effects may be produced. 

In order thoroughly to understand the possibiHties and limitations 
of artificial silk as well as the marks that distinguish it, some knowledge 
of its source and methods of manufacture is necessary. 

True silk is produced from two large glands extending along the greater 
part of the body of the silk worm, and terminating in two spinnerets 
at the head. As the Kquid, which consists mainly of the protein fibroin, 
flows from these two glands, the streams are cemented together by a 
gxunmy substance called sericin. The silk solution passes out through 
the tiny openings or spinnerets and is coagulated upon contact with 
the air, thus forming a filament, the average diameter of which is 0.018 
mm. How the liquid silk differs from the hardened filament is not known, 
for coagulation of the liquid is too rapid to allow examination. 

The constitution of proteins being still unknown, fibroin cannot be 
synthesized, so the name artificial silk, in the sense that we speak of 
artificial indigo, is a nisnomer. The best that can at present be done 
is to manufacture a silk-like filament. For this reason there have been 
many attempts to coin a nsune more characteristic of the new type of 
textile fiber, but, so far, none has been very successful. 

The first problem confronting the manufacturer is the selection of 
raw material. This must be such that a fiber can be formed from it 
that will have the luster of true silk, will be fairly strong and durable, 
and will, above all, be cheap. Since fibroin is a protein and the physical 
and chemical properties of proteins are so similar, one would naturally 



1917] MANUFACTURED SILK 379 

suppose these to be the best source of raw material, but this is not the 
case. Gelatine silks have been made but have never been a commercial 
possibiHty mainly because they have no textile strength when wet and 
only one-sixth that of true silk when dry. Casein silk has been the 
subject of much investigation, but, while interesting theoretically, 
even if a good silk were finally made, the cost of any animal fiber would 
probably be prohibitive since it must compete with the lustra-celluloses 
made from wood pulp. 

Cellulose, in fact, is the basis of all of the commercially successful 
silks. Four important cellulose derivatives have been used : (1) the nitro- 
cellulose, (2) the acetate, (3) the cuprammonium, and (4) the viscose. 
Purified cotton waste is used for the first three, and wood pulp for viscose. 
Both cotton and wood have a characteristic cellular structure, while 
the silk fiber, on the other hand, is a structureless tube. It is therefore 
first of all necessary to destroy the structure of the raw material if the 
physical properties of silk are to be imitated. This is done by preparing 
a soluble cellulose derivative. In the case of the nitro-cellulose, the 
purified cotton is treated with nitric acid and a dehydrating agent (sul- 
phuric acid), the composition of the nitrates formed being dependent 
upon the temperature, the time of contact, the concentrations of the acids 
and the relative amounts employed. A mixture of alcohol is used as 
the solvent. For the acetate silks chloroform or ethyl acetate and alco- 
hol are the commonest solvents, the cellulose acetate being manufactured 
by various methods. The cuprammonium silks are obtained from a 
solution of cellulose in ammoniacal copper oxide, while the viscose 
silk depends on the formation of a cellulose sulpho-carbonate. 

Great indeed are the mechanical difficulties surmounted by the manu- 
facturer. The spinnerets of the silk worm are imitated by minute cap- 
illary tubes of glass or platinum. The orifices of these must be fairly 
uniform in size if a uniform product is to be obtained, yet they are some- 
times not more than 0.08 mm. in diameter. They may be formed by 
heating glass tubes to redness and drawing out rapidly. These are stand- 
ardized by measurements under the microscope and only those whose 
diameters fall within certain Hmits are used. The platinum tubes are 
said to be cut with very fine dies. 

The solution must be perfectly homogeneous in order to pass through 
such minute tubes, and so repeated filtration is necessary. Coagulation 
of the filaments is the next process. In the case of the nitro-celluloses 
this is usually accomplished by rapid evaporation of a volatile solvent 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

such as ether and alcohol, but in other silks a coagulant is generally 
used. The coagulating bath consists of a solution in which the cellulose 
derivative is insoluble. Petroleum hydrocarbons are most often used 
for the acetate silks, ammonium sulphide for the viscose. 

The silk solution enters the coagulating bath directly from the spin- 
nerets, so that the surface is immediately hardened. The interior being 
still liquid, the filament may be drawn out imtil it is several times smaller 
than the orifice through which it has passed, a process greatly increasing 
its lustre. A number of filaments are then united together to form a 
single thread which is wound on spools. The rate at which the silk 
solution passes through the spinnerets is important, and is determined 
largely by the viscosity of the solution, the size of the spinnerets, and the 
pressure employed. One of the nitro-cellulose methods requires a pres- 
sure of 40-50 atmospheres when the orifices are 0.08 mm. in diameter, 
while the Glanzstoff (cuprammonium) makes use of only 1.5-2 atmos- 
pheres, but the spinnerets are 0.12 to 0.15 mm. In diameter. In general 
it may be said that the main factors determining the formation of a 
filament are the rate of passage through the spinnerets, the nature of 
the coagulant, and the tension to which the filament is subjected in the 
coagulating process. 

With the nitro-cellulose silks, denitration is necessary, after the silk 
has been wound on the spools, in order to render it non-explosive. A 
bath of ammonium sulphide is commonly employed for the purpose. 
The chief disadvantages of this type of silk are: (1) cost because of the 
large amounts of ether and alcohol employed, (2) weakening of the fiber 
by water, and (3) danger in the manufacturing process because of its 
explosiveness. Cellulose zinc chloride filaments are also made. They 
are not strong enough for weaving, but are used for incandescent Ught 
mantles. 

The acetate silks are made from cellulose acetates, which remain as 
esters in the finished product. For this reason, these silks are not readily 
affected by water, as is usually the case. They are also characterized 
by their non-inflammability, their resistance to the dye-stuffs, and their 
ability to incorporate within the fiber large quantities of softeners 
(organic substances of many types), which give them great pliability. 
They are the most costly of the artificial silks, and so are httle used, 
though the cellulose acetates are very valuable industrially for insulating 
copper wire for electrical apparatus and for certain expensive lacquers. 
The cuprammonium silks superseded the nitro-cellulose because cheaper 



1917] MANUFACTURED SILK 381 

and more satisfactory, but they, in turn, have been replaced by the vis- 
cose. Viscose is the cheapest of the artificial silks, and is practically 
the only kind manufactured in the United States. 

Commercial viscose is not made from cotton but from wood pulp 
ground with solid sodium hydroxide until a finely divided crumb-like 
mass is obtained. The excess of moisture is then pressed out and the 
soda cellulose is allowed to lie for some time before being treated with 
carbon disulphide. The resulting mass is dissolved in water and filtered 
to remove any cellulose fibers. The spinning frame consists of a double 
series of small pumps that force the solution through platinum spinner- 
ets pierced with very fine openings, the number of which varies accord- 
ing to the size of the thread desired, the average number being about 18 
orifices per thread. Ammonium sulphate is used for a coagulant. The 
filaments are united into a single thread immediately after hardening, and 
are then wound on a turbine bobbin which collects them into skeins and 
gives the thread the right degree of twist. The yellow color is removed 
by bleaching powder or sodium hypochlorite. Viscose dyes very easily 
and beautifully in a lukewarm dyebath for cotton. 

In reply to the practical questions: (1) How may we know it? (2) 
What are its limitations? (3) What may we expect of it? It may be 
said that its very high luster, the coarseness of the thread, its lack 
of pliability, its very low tensile strength, are usually sufficient to 
distinguish manufactured silk. Some of the coarser poorer qualities 
of silk such as that used for belting might be mistaken for it, but the 
threads are not nearly so easily broken; moreover threads of true silk 
when broken show very fine fibers which "fuzz up" at the ends. The 
best household test is burning. True silk, unweighted, burns easily 
with the characteristic odor of protein (such as burnt hair, for example), 
forming a bead-like mass at the ends; weighted may scarcely burn at 
all, while artificial silks, excepting the acetates, burn very rapidly as cot- 
ton does. If these tests prove inconclusive, Millon's reagent (mercury 
in nitric acid) may be used for light colored materials since all proteins 
and hence silks are turned red by it and the cellulose derivatives are 
unchanged. 

The different kinds of artificial silks may be distinguished by micro- 
scopic tests and by concentrated sulphuric acid, but this is not important 
since viscose is used almost universally, at least in this country. Ger- 
many seems to be one of the foremost in this industry but the writer 
was unable to obtain any information regarding the methods employed. 



382 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

It may be added that in case a revision of the tariff on a protective basis 
again occurs, a tariff on artificial silk will probably be included therein, 
presumably to prevent competition with Germany. 

Regarding the limitations of the fiber, it may be said that the main 
objections to the use of manufactured silks have always been their low 
tensile strength compared with true silk, and the fact that they are much 
weakened by water. 

The remarkable difference in tensile strength between true and manu- 
factured silk is due not to lack of strength in the fiber itself, but to the 
lack of qualities necessary for spinning. Wool has little microscales 
that aid the spinning process as they tend to interlock; cotton has a 
natural twist that favors this process; and silk, while a structureless 
tube, has other qualities which make it spin easily. Manufactured 
silk has none of these; its use is Hmited, therefore, to coarse weaves, 
knit goods, and embroidery silks, which do not require a tightly twisted 
thread. 

The fact that manufactured silk regains its strength when dry makes 
the loss of strength when wet of very much less importance. Obviously 
manufactured silk would not be suited for surgical or other scientific 
purposes where great strength and softness are required. Artificial 
silk of good quality will not, as formerly, disintegrate if left upon the 
tongue, but is naturally much more easily broken than true silk. A 
wool material having a viscose design was boiled out in the laboratory 
in a 5 per cent solution of potassium hydroxide, disintegrating the wool 
but leaving the viscose unchanged, thus showing that this type of arti- 
ficial silk is unaffected by dilute alkalies at a boiling temperature, and 
consequently is uninjured by laundering. 

By way of summary the following points may be noted: 

1. Viscose is not a general substitute for silk as it does not possess 
its softness, its strength, or its fineness. 

2. Its luster renders it excellent for decorative purposes, especially 
in combination with other fibers. 

3. Viscose is pre-eminently fitted for knit goods and braids where its 
resistance to spinning is not especially important. 

4. Viscose withstands laundering (even with free alkali), is cheap, is 
stronger than silk goods highly weighted with stannous chloride or 
other salts, and may on the whole be used fearlessly wherever its physi- 
cal properties make it attractive to the purchaser. 



EDITORIAL 

Home Economics Conferences in Washington. On April 30, at 
the call of the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, the editors or repre- 
sentatives of household and women's magazines met in conference at 
Washington to determine how their pubHcations could best use their 
columns for help in the present crisis. 

Among other things it was agreed that each month one article be 
furnished the magazines to be pubHshed "without the change of a 
comma." The article by Mr. Vrooman in this issue is the first of these. 
Not only in its promise of material, but in its contribution to mutual 
understanding the conference was worth while. 

On June 2, Mr. Hoover called together in Washington a group of 
representative workers in home economics. After addressing them for a 
few moments he asked Dr. R. L. Wilbur, president of Leland Stanford 
Jr. University, and now acting as head of the Food Conservation Divi- 
sion of the Food Administration, to conduct the conference. Both 
morning and afternoon were spent in discussing the relation of Home 
Economics to Food Conservation, and in planning efficient methods of 
work for different localities, and conditions. Partly as a consequence 
of this conference the Home Economics Advisory Committee was ap- 
pointed. As this number goes to press another conference of editors of 
household and women's magazines has been called by the Red Cross 
officials at which Red Cross needs and aims are to be presented, the 
organization explained, and cooperation of the publications asked. 

The Journal of Home Economics has been represented at all of 
these conferences, and its cordial cooperation promised. 



THE PLEDGE OF THE GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S 

CLUBS 

"In view of the pressing military necessity of conserving the food supply 
of the Nation, I hereby pledge myself to do my bit as follows: 

"I will use only those amounts of food required for adequate nourishment. 

I will endeavor to control the waste in all kinds of materials in the household 

and to live simply. 

"I will begin now." 

383 



384 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

ANNOUNCEMENT 

The Ellen Richards Research Prize. The Naples Table Association for 
Promoting Laboratory Research by Women announces the offer of a 
research prize of $1000 for the best thesis written by an American woman 
embodying new observations and new conclusions based on independent 
laboratory research in Biology (including Psychology), Chemistry, or 
Physics. Papers published before 1916 will not be considered and theses 
presented for a Ph.D. degree are not eligible. Theses offered in com- 
petition must be in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on the 
Prize, Dr. Lilian Welsh, Goucher College, Baltimore, before February 
25, 1918. Application blanks may be obtained from the secretary, 
Mrs. Ada Wing Mead, 823 Wayland Avenue, Providence, Rhode Island. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Conducted by a committee of the Science Section of the American Home Economics 
Association. Chairman, Prof. Amy Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. 
Questions may be sent directly to Miss Daniels. 

Question: Unfertilized eggs which have been incubated for varying 
lengths of time are usually thrown away or cooked and used for food for 
chicks. Is there any reason why these may not be used for human food? 

Answer: UnfertiHzed, incubated eggs are often superior to many cold 
storage eggs. With one exception these may be used in any of the usual 
ways in which fresh eggs are served. During the incubation process the 
membrane which holds the white has become changed so that the white 
no longer holds together, therefore these eggs are not satisfactory for 
poaching. The flavor of the eggs incubated as long as seven days is 
not different from that of fresh eggs. Both sponge and angel cake, a 
sure test of good eggs, can be made from these. 

Question: Is there any justification for the statement that salt added 
to vegetables during the process of cooking hardens the cellulose and 
so keeps the vegetables intact? 

Answer: Chemically pure sodium chloride (table salt) has no effect 
on cellulose, nor in the process of cooking in dilute solutions has it any 



1917] THE QUESTION BOX 385 

appreciable hardening effect on the substance of which vegetables are 
composed. Most table salt, however, contains a considerable amount 
of calcium, and if a generous amount of this sodium chloride is added 
to certain vegetables, namely the legumes, in the process of cooking, 
the effect will be the same as if the vegetables were cooked in hard water. 
In fact, the Canner's Association have found it unwise to add salt to 
peas during the process of cooking, because the salt used contains 
enough calcium to harden the product. 

Question: The reason usually given for the use of lactose, rather than 
some other form of sugar in infant feeding, is that lactose is less easily 
fermented, and therefore is better born by the average infant. What 
authority is there for this statement? 

Answer: Lactose is less quickly absorbed from the alimentary tract 
than other disaccharides, and therefore offers greater opportunity for 
bacterial action and the formation of lactic acid. This lactic acid may 
prevent the development of putrefactive organisms which so frequently 
lead to digestive disturbances. When given in excess lactose is more 
Hkel)' to cause diarrhea than are other disaccharides. Many pediatrists 
believe that, although lactose is helpful under certain conditions, dex- 
tri-maltose preparations are better tolerated by the average infant. 

Reference^: Sauglingsernahrung und Siiuglings Stoffwechsel, II and III, p. 129, 1914. 
Diseases of Nutrition and Infant Feeding. Morse and Talbot, p. 192, 1915. 
The Influence of Lactose on the Metabolism of an Infant. Talbot and Hill. Amer. Jour. 
Diseases of Children, Vol. VIII, 1914, p. 218. 

Question: Is there any authority for the statement sometimes made 
that milk is not so easily digested in the stomach of an adult as it is in 
the stomach of a child? 

Answer: It is believed by a number of investigators that rennin and 
pepsin are the same enzyme, the difference in the chemical behavior 
of the enzyme being due to the difference in the medium in which it is 
acting. If this is so, you can see that the rennetic action of the adult 
cannot differ in any way from the rennetic action of the child, both 
depending upon the activity of pepsin. 

An article by Bremmen, in the Journal of American Medical Associ- 
ation, Vol. LX, 1913, p. 575, shows that the action of the rennin (or 
pepsin) of the adult is not inefficient. 



386 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Question: What are the reasons why cofifee is less injurious if used 
clear than if used with cream and sugar? 

Ajiswer: Only those individuals suffering from fat indigestion have 
difficulty in digesting coffee with cream and sugar. Here it is not so 
much the coffee but the fat of the cream that is causing the disturbance; 
and although it is true that tannin in both tea and coffee inhibit di- 
gestion in proportion to the amount present, the tannin might better 
act on the protein of the cream or milk rather than on the gastric 
secretion. 

Question: Is there any authority for the Statement that crisp bacon 
is less digestible than that cooked until it is slightly brown but not 
crisp? Is there any benefit derived from pouring boiling water on bacon 
and then pan boihng it? 

Answer: Under certain conditions, for example hypochlorhydria, 
bacon which is cooked until it is crisp and therefore contains less fat, 
would be more desirable than that cooked a shorter time, since fat de- 
lays the gastric secretion. On the other hand, crisp bacon contains 
less nutriment, since much of the fat is cooked out during the process of 
cooking. The general belief that super heated fat is unwholesome has 
not been born out by experiment. 

The custom of pouring boihng water on bacon before pan boiling, has 
developed amongst those people who prefer bacon browned only sHghtly. 
In order to make sure that it is thoroughly cooked, the bacon is par- 
boiled first. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Domestic Architecture. By L. Eugene Rob- 
inson, New York: The Macmillan Com- 
pany, 1917, pp. 378. $1.50. By mail of 
the Journal, $1.64. 

This book presents, in a well organized 
form, many facts of practical significance, 
which teachers of House Planning have been 
compelled to gather from many sources. 
The method of organizing the material is 
especially suited to high school classes. The 
chapters are divided into clearly indicated 
subtopics, which are summarized at the 
end of each chapter by sketch problems 
and a bibliography relating to their solution. 
For use in college classes, as reference 
material, there is need of an addition to 
the book, in the form a of list of illustrations. 
The illustrations are a most valuable feature 
of the book. Through them the author 
demonstrates the influence of practical proc- 
esses and conditions upon the principles of 
design. 

The book is divided into two parts. Part 
one deals with the usual problems ,of 
House Planning in an unusually clear 
manner. Among the topics here included 
may be mentioned common Building Ma- 
terials, Finish Building Materials, House 
Construction, Appliances, Heating and Ven- 
tilating, Lighting, Plumbing, and Cost of 
Dwellings. Part two is a practical guide 
for house design, including a Drafting-room 
Manual, Problems in Design, and a most 
excellent Glossary of Architectural Terms. 
From the teacher's \'iew point, this book 
is a most welcome contribution. 

Ethelwyn Miller. 
University of Chicago. 



Food for the Worker. The food values and 
cost of a series of menus and recipes for 
seven weeks. By Frances Stern and 
Gertrude T. Spitz. Boston: Whitcomb 
and Barrows, 1917, pp. 131. 1 diagram. 
$1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.08. 
By what extraordinary combination of cir- 
cumstances has it come about that we think 
of "food for the worker" as necessarily 
plain, questionably complete, and as de- 
manding more or less scheming and plan- 
ning to make it supply all the needs of the 
body? Surely such a diet would be better 
suited to the idler or the laggard who has 
little need of energj' or of strength of body, 
and plenty of time in which to turn and 
twist the pattern of the perfect diet, which 
instinct designed in the rough and the ex- 
pert in nutrition has perfected so as to " get 
it out," as we say in dressmaking, from 
available food materials. Under existing 
conditions, illogical, inexpedient, and unjust 
as they are, it is often the worker who must 
experiment most with the pattern, turning 
it now this way and now that, and to him 
this book, the product of broad sympathies 
and of wide practical experience, is sure to 
be of value. It could hardly be better de- 
scribed than by Dr. Mendel in the fore- 
word: 

"The more I have investigated the dif- 
ficulties under present-day conditions of se- 
curing adequate nutrition at an average cost 
of twenty cents per day per person, for the 
families of small earning capacity, the more 
have I been impressed with the immediate 
helpfulness of such essays. It matters little 
whether these dietaries are acceptable in 



387 



388 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



their entirety. The contribution of 147 
menus carefully planned, with tested recipes 
which are the outcome of the direct experi- 
ence of a visiting housekeeper under condi- 
tions that prevail in a large American city, 
is a valuable effort in a somewhat novel di- 
rection. Only one who has actually at- 
tempted, with restricted funds, to purchase 
a variety of abundant, suitable, seasonable 
foods in a retail market can thoroughly ap- 
preciate thie situation." 

It might be added that those who, in the 
present crisis, are trying to plan meals so as 
to do away with all waste will be glad of the 
opportunity which this book offers to get 
the food value of cooked dishes as well as of 
separate food materials. The carefully pre- 
pared recipes given in connection with the 
food values are also helpful. Those who lay 
down rules for diet in terms of protein, fat, 
and other nutrients often fail to realize how 
difficult it is for practical housekeepers to 
plan meals so that the}^ will include popular 
dishes and at the same time have the right 
food value. 

It was Mrs. Beeton, the famous English 
authority on household economy of two gen- 
erations ago, who gave in her cook book di- 
rections for preparing a "soup for charitable 
purposes," the composition of which was 
doubtless determined by the author's esti- 
mate of the average gentlewoman's gifts to 
the poor. The nutritive value of the recipes 
in Food for the Worker is determined first by 
dietary standards and second by what the 
average unskilled laborer in a typical Ameri- 



can city can pay on a pinch. That the re- 
sult of the pinch must be an unfortunate cut- 
ting down of other items in the family bud- 
get is shown by the estimate on page 22. 
Here it is stated that the food recommended, 
plain as it is, would cost $364 a year in 
quantities sufficient for the average family. 
This is 69 per cent of $528, the income of a 
man who works at $2 a day without being 
laid off more than eight weeks in the year. 
There would be left $164 for rent and cloth- 
ing and all the other necessaries and decen- 
cies of life. The inclusion of this statement 
makes the book an argument for an adjust- 
ment between wages and cost of living as 
well as a practical guide to the economical 
selection and preparation of foods. 

That adjustment is vitally necessary has 
long been recognized by all those who have 
taken pains to compare wages and food 
prices. The only stumbling block has been 
its practicability. Now many powerful and 
influential people, setting lightly aside all 
possibilit}'^ of failure, have set forth seriously 
on a program of food control. If control is 
possible in times of war, it is possible in 
times of peace; if it is desirable for the de- 
velopment of the arts of war, it is even more 
desirable in the interest of the arts of peace. 
The practicability of control demonstrated, 
the only question is about the amount of 
adjustment necessary, and in determining 
this, such books as Food for the Worker will 
surel)^ be helpful. 

Carolfne L. Hunt. • 

Washington, D. C. 



PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The following bulletins may be obtained free from the Division of Publications, United 
States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C: 
Drying Fruits and Vegetables in the Home. Farmer's Bulletin 841. 
Home Canning by the One-Period Cold-Pack Method. By O. H. Benson. Farmers' 

Bulletin 839. 
Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables. By Mary E. Cresswell and Ola Powell. Farmers' 

Bulletin 853. 
How to Select Foods. II. Cereal Foods. By Caroline L. Hunt and Helen W. Atwater. 

Farmers' Bulletin 817. 
The following bulletins are issued by the publishers listed: 
Forty Ways of Reducing Food Bills. By Winifred Stuart Gibbs. Extension Department, 

Mechanics Institute, Rochester, N. Y. 10 cents. 
Conservation of Foods. The Stout Institute Bulletin, Menomonie, Wis. 
Ten Lessons on Food Conservation. Lessons 1 to V, Food Administration, Washington, D. C-. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 389 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Journal. 

Foods and Cookery 

Canned Tomatoes. A. McGill, Lab. Inland Rev. Depl. Canada. Bui. 357 (1916), pp. 31. 

Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and Other Starchy Roots as Food. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Bui. 468 (1917), pp. 29, figs. 7. 

Homemade Bread Substitutes for Diabetic Patients. R. T. Williamson, Bril. Med. Jour., 
(1916), no. 2921, pp. S70, 871. Recipes are given. 

The lodin Content of Food Materials. R. M. Bohn, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28 (1917), no. 2, 
pp. 375-381. 

Milling and Baking Tests of Victorian Wheat. P. R. Scott and F. G. B. Winslow, Jour. 
Dept. Agr. Victoria, 14 (1916), no. 11, pp. 641-652, figs. 2. 

The Nutritive Value of Wood. G. Haberlandt, Sitzher. K. Preuss. Akad. Wiss., 1915, 
XIV, pp. : 53-257; abs. in Expt. Sta. Rec, 36 (1917), no. 6, p. 561. 

Three Delicious Meals Every Day for the Farmer. G. W. Carver, Alabama Tiiskegee 
Sta. Bui. 32 (1916), pp. 13. 

Typical Electric Range Designs. E. A. WUcox, Jour. Electricity, 38 (1917), no. 1, pp. 13, 
14, figs. 4. 

Nineteenth Annual Convention of the Association of American Dairy, Food, and Drug 
Officials, Held at Berkeley, California, Proc. Assoc. Anier. Dairy, Food, and Drug Officials, 
19 (1915), pp. 228. 

[Food of the Natives of Mailu, British New Guinea]. B. Malinowski, Trans, and Proc. 
Roy. Soc. So. Aust., 39 (1915), pp. 546-553, figs. 8. Information regarding the nature of the 
food, its preparation, and cooking. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Intermediary Metabolism in Diabetes. G. Lusk, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 153 (1917) 
no. 538, pp. 40-43. 

Abnormalities of Growth. L. B. Mendel, Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., 153 (1917), no. 538, pp. 
1-20. 

The Factors Which Determine the Adequacy of a Vegetable Diet. R. G. Pearce, Jour. 
Lab. and Clin. Med., 2 (1917), no. 4, pp. 280-282. 

Studies of the Gastric Residuum. — I, A Study of 80 Samples of Gastric Residuums 
Obtained from Apparently Normal Women. C. C. Fowler and Zelma Zentmire, Jour. 
Amer. Med. Assn., 88 (1917), no. 3, pp. 167-170, figs. 4. 

Studies of the Values of Different Grades of Milk in Infant Feeding. R. M. Washburn 
and C. H. Jones, Vermont Sta. Bui. 195 (1916), pp. 144, pis. 9, figs. 10. 

The Influence of the Coagulation by Rennin upon the Gastric Digestion of Milk Protein. 
J. T. Leary and S. H. Sheib, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28 (1917), no. 2, pp. 393-398. 

Studies of Infant Feeding. — The Chemical Changes Produced by the Addition of Lime- 
water to Milk. A. W. Bosworth and H. I. Bowditch, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28 (1917), no. 2, 
pp. 431-435. 

The Effect on Higher Animals of the Sterilization of the Inhabited Medium, the Air, and 
the Food. I. Kianizin, Jour. Physiol., 50 (1916), no. 7, pp. 391-396. 

Studies on the Growth of Man. I, The Prenatal and Postnatal Growth of Infants. T. B. 
Robertson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 37 (1915), no. 1, pp. 1-42, figs. 2. 



390 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Studies on the Growth of Man. II, The Postnatal Loss of Weight in Iiifa,nts and the 
Compensatory Overgrowth which Succeeds It. T. B. Robertson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 37 
(1915), no. 1, pp. 74-85. 

Studies on the Growth of jMan. Ill, The Growth of British Infants During the First 
Year Succeeding Birth. T. B. Robertson, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 5, pp. 535- 
546, figs. 2. 

Studies on the Growth of JMan. IV, The Variability of the Weight and Stature of School 
Children and Its Relationship to Their Physical Welfare. T. B. Robertson, Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., 41 (1916), no. 5, pp. 547-554, figs. 2. 

The influence of Ingested Carbohydrate, Protein, and Fat on the Blood Sugar in Phlorizin 
Diabetes. F. A. Csonka, Jour. Biol. Chem., 26 (1916), no. 1, pp. 93-98, fig. 1. 

The Interrelations of Blood Fat and Blood Sugar Content of Dogs Under the Influence 
of Hydrazin. F. P. Underbill and E. J. Baumann, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 
169-172. 

Alterations in the Output of Certain Urinary Constituents as Determined by Changes 
in the Character of the Diet. F. P. Underbill and L. J. Bogert, Joitr. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), 
no. 1, pp. 161-168. 

Studies in Creatin Metabolism. I, Possible Interrelations Between Acidosis and Creatin 
Elimination. F. P. Underbill, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 1, pp. 127-139. 

Studies in Creatin Metabolism. II, The Influence of x^lkali upon Creatin Elimination 
During Inanition. F. P. Underbill, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916;, no. 1, pp. 141-146. 

Studies in Creatin Metabolism. Ill, The Influence of Alkali upon the Creatinuria of 
Phlorizin Glycosuria. F. P. Underbill and E. J. Baumann, Jour. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), no. 
1, pp. 147-150. 

Studies in Creatin Metabolism. IV, The Relationship of Creatinuria to Carbohydrate 
Metabolism and Acidosis. F. P. Underbill and E. J. Baumann, Jojir. Biol. Chem., 27 (1916), 
no. 1, pp. 151-160. 

Hygiene and Sanitation 

The Analysis of "Dust"- Collected in a Vacuum Cleaner from the Book Shelves of the 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Library. Science, Oct. 27, 1916, p. 618. 

Dust and Its Dangers. (Editorial) Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 68 (1917), p. 291. 

A Mosquito Collecting Device. T. H. D. Grifliths, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 67 (1916), 
no. 2, p. 117. 

The Sanitation of the Shellfish Industry. H. S. Gumming, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 67 
(1916), no. 27, pp. 2001-2004. 

The Sanitation of Public IMarkets. D. B. Armstrong, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 68 
(1917), no. 2, pp. 103-106. c. f. Jour. H. E., 8 (1916), no. 11, pp. 577-583. 

Miscellaneous 

The Education of Working-Class Girls. Edith Sellers, Nineteenth Cent., 19-20 (1916), 
no. 474, pp. 337-349. 

Estimates of a Living Wage for Female Workers. Amer. Jour. Pub. Health, 6 (1916), 
no. 3, p. 221. 

The Removal of the Natural Impurities of Cotton Cloth by the Action of Bacteria. B. S. 
Levine, Jour. Indus, atui Engin. Chem., 8 (1916), no. 4, pp. 298-302. 

The Rural School Lunch. Nellie W. Famsworth, St. Paid: Webb Publishitig Cofnpany, 
1916, pp. 42, figs. 12. 

Schoolhouse Meeting Discussion of How to Feed the Family for Health and Efl&ciency. 
Jessie P. Rich, Bui. Univ. Tex., no. 68 (1915), pp. 18, figs. 5. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



A Meeting of the Home Economics 
Extension Workers of the Western 
States was held at Logan, Utah, May 2, 3, 4. 
There was an excellent program, \\'ith 
helpful demonstrations, and valuable County 
Project reports. Nine out of the eleven 
Western States were repreFented by the 
State Leaders in Home Economics. The 
Extension Directors of Washington, Idaho, 
Wyoming, and Utah were also in attendance, 
while the States Relations Ser\ace was 
represented by Miss Florence E. Ward in 
charge of women's work, and Mr. C. A. 
Clinton, Assistant Chief, acting in place 
of Dr. True and Mr. C. B. Smith who were 
unable to be present on account of the war. 
It was voted unanimously to make the 
meeting an aimual event. 

Sanitary Commission to Russia. Dr. 
Henry Sherman a member of the Council 
of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, and one to whom not only as indi- 
viduals but as an association we are greatly 
indebted, is a member of the Red Cross 
Sanitary Commission to Russia. Dr. Bil- 
lings of Chicago is in charge of the Com- 
mission, and Dr. C. E. A. Winslow of Yale 
and Dr. George Whipple of Harvard are 
also members. 

The object of the expedition is to offer 
American aid in caring for Russia's sick and 
wounded soldiers, in furnishing medical sup- 
plies, and in helping her sanitary officers. 
Much of the money contributed for the Red 
Cross fund will be spent abroad, and in order 
that it may be well spent commissions of 
experts will be sent in advance to various 
countries to advise as to its disposition. The 
expenses of the Commission to Russia are 
to be paid by a wealthy New York business 
man. 



HOME ECONOMICS WORKERS IN WASHING- 
TON, D. C. 

As the result of a Home Economics Con- 
ference called by Mr. Hoover in May, the 
following were appointed as a permanent 
Advisory Committee to work under Dr. 
R. L. Wilbur, President of Leland Stanford 
University, whom Mr. Hoover has appointed 
as head of the Food Conservation Division 
of the Food Administration: Miss Abby 
L. Marlatt, Chairman; Miss Josephine T. 
Berry, Dr. Alice Boughton, Mrs. Henrietta 
Calvin, Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Miss Isabel 
Ely Lord, Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor. 

Advisory Members: Miss Catharine Mac 
Kay, Miss Martha Van Renesselaer, Miss 
Florence Ward. 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor of the 
Journal of Home Economics, is acting 
as Editorial Secretary for Home Economics 
in the office of the Food Conservation Sec- 
tion of the Food Administration. She was 
called to Washington by Mr. Hoover on 
July 18, and her services have been volun- 
teered for a short time by the Journal 
Board. She will carry on her work on the 
Journal in addition to the new work. 

Miss Abby Marlatt is acting for the sum- 
mer as Director of the Home Economics 
Section, Division of Food Conservation of 
the Food Administration. Her work in- 
cludes the \aseing, for the Food Adminis- 
tration, of publicity material deahng with 
food; the preparation of articles and other 
publicity material; and the answering of 
questions that have been received from aU 
over the country in regard to food conserva- 
tion. She assisted in preparing the Ten 
Lessons on Food Conservation that have 
been sent out to the summer normal schools. 



391 



392 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[August 



Miss Isabel Ely Lord, a member of the 
Journal Board, spent three weeks of July 
organizing a working library for the use of 
the Food Conservation Section of the Food 
Administration. 

Miss Alice Boughton who took her doc- 
tor's degree at Columbia University in June, 
is acting as head of the Elementary and 
Secondary Schools Department of the Food 
Conservation Section of the Food Admin- 
istration. 

Miss Alice Ravenhill has been made 
Professor of Household Economics at the 
State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. 

Dr. Andrews is working for the summer in 
the Office of Home Economics, United 
States Department of Agriculture, as a 
Specialist in Household Thrift. 

Miss Emma Winslow is temporarily 
assisting in assembling new material for the 
Woman's Section of the Office of Extension 
Work North and West, States Relations 
Service. Part of the time she will be in 
the field, making observations of city organ- 
ization work to be reported to the Extension 
Office. 

Miss Mary Thurston, a graduate of 
Teachers College, who has been a com- 
munity worker in Atlanta, Ga., is now acting 
as Home Demonstration Agent for the 
District of Columbia. Miss Thurston is 
the first person to be appointed for urban 
extension work. This work is under the 
direction of Miss Mary E. Cresswell, Office 
of Extension Work in the South, and Miss 
Florence E. Ward, Office of Extension Work 
North and West, 



Notes. The Wisconsin Le^- iiature has 
just enacted a law authorizing The Stout 
Institute authorities to establish four year 
courses for the preparation of teachers 
of the Household and Industrial Arts and 
to grant a B.S. Degree upon the com- 
pletion of such courses. The bill carried an 
appropriation for additional laboratories and 
equipment for the new courses and for 
additional teachers. 

The four year courses will be offered at 
the beginning of the school year in Septem- 
ber. 

Miss Helen M. Norris, who graduated in 
1915 from the Mary Hemenway school of 
Household Arts of Framingham, Mass., 
State Normal School, has been appointed 
State leader of Boys' and Girls' Canning 
and Home Economics Clubs in Massachu- 
setts, and has already begun her work. 

Miss Jenny H. Snow, head of the Depart- 
ment of Home Economics, Chicago Normal 
College, and for some years Instructor in 
the School of Education, University of 
Chicago, has been appointed Supervisor of 
Household Arts in the Chicago Schools. 
This is one of the most important home 
economics positions in the country, and offers 
today especial opportunity for service. 

Miss Francis Swain of Indiana Univer- 
sity, is to succeed Miss Snow at the Chicago 
Normal College. 

The experiments on jams and marmalade 
reported in the article on page 375 were 
conducted by Miss Dorothy Russell of the 
Normal Household Science Class at Pratt 
Institute, and used as the subject of her 
graduation thesis. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. DC SEPTEMBER, 1917 No. 9 

THE SCOPE OF HOME ECONOMICS AND ITS SUBJECT 
MATTER IN UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES^ 

ALICE RAVENHILL 

Professor of Home Economics, Utah Slate A griciiUural College 

The words which form the closing paragraph of the Introduction to 
the Syllabus, prepared for the American Home Economics Association 
by eight leaders in the subject, stimulate my sense of obligation to 
submit for your consideration certain opinions which might appear un- 
mindful of the skill and knowledge of which this Syllabus is the product, 
were it not for the words I now quote. 

"Suggestions and criticisms from all who are interested in any phase 
of the subject (i.e., of home economics) are invited, in order that the 
Association may have the benefit of the knowledge and experience of 
many persons to aid it in further consideration of this matter." 

Since the scope of home economics, as detailed in this Syllabus, de- 
mands sixty closely printed pages, additional elaboration would appear 
unwise, and it is with no idea of further complicating an already com- 
plex subject that I present the following comments and suggestions. 
My object is rather to examine our own utilization of the comprehensive 
contents of this exhaustive Syllabus and to inquire: 

1. Do the courses, presumably modelled upon it, meet the needs of 
the civilized world of today in respect to the preservation of health and 
the right conduct of family and institutional life; and 

2. If, as public health statistics of this country show, the mass of 
theoretical knowledge now available on these subjects, well tested knowl- 

^ Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association, held in con- 
nection with the N. E. A., Portland, Ore., July 10, 1917. 

393 



394 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

edge too, is not being utilized in the domestic life of the nation to the 
extent reasonably to be anticipated, are the reasons to be sought in 
(a) an imperfect estimate on the part of instructors of the relative 
values of the various parts of the whole subject of home economics; 
or, in (b) some failure in the accepted methods of its presentation; 
such as exaggerated classification of details or hard and fast subdivi- 
sions, without sufiicient coincident or subsequent correlations; or, in 
(c) the omission on the part of home economics graduates to as- 
sume a sufficiently influential position in social and civic life; so that 
they fail to diffuse by example and standards the tenets they profess. 

At the very moment I present to you this paper I am encouraged by 
the appearance in the July number of the Journal of Home Econom- 
ics of the report of most valuable inquiry along the same fines by Miss 
Efizabeth C. Jenkins of New Bedford Industrial School, Mass., which 
shows that the same thought is active on the following points in the 
East and in the West. 

It is never amiss to audit at intervals the work accompfished in any 
field; there is no reason, therefore, to apologize for an inquiry into the 
results which should have been attained after forty years of wide- 
spread teaching in home economics. These should surely include the 
reformation of many insanitary habits; the revision of numerous un- 
sound conventions; the prevention of a mass of preventable disease; a 
marked diminution in the national death rate at all ages; and a per- 
ceptible upward trend in the standards of general health and conduct. 
The family fife of the people should be stronger; and home conditions 
should be well adjusted to the possibifities and demands of modern 
civifization, with its multiple opportunities for improvement. 

The gauge by which to test such results is found in the Vital Statistics, 
pubfished by the health authorities at Washington and in the different 
states; in the returns of prisons, industrial schools, hospitals. Commis- 
sions on Charities and Corrections, and other official and philanthropic 
bodies. It appears to me that the results of even a fimited application 
of this test will unquestionably incite us to further efforts. Children 
are found, for instance, to be suffering as seriously from deficient sleep 
and faulty training as from the more immediate obviously defective food 
— a fact which certainly suggests incompleteness in our course of study. 
Most girls are still carried away by every passing wind of foolish fash- 
ion, to the lasting detriment of their own health and of those for whose 
Kves they will presently become responsible. Social excitements in- 



1917] SCOPE OF HOME ECONOMICS 395 

creasingly obscure the claims of home duties and take the savour out 
of quiet family intercourse. Young folks still marry with no prepara- 
tion for the vast responsibilities they assume. Preparation for parent- 
hood, training in or for motherhood, are rarely even considered. Adult 
hfe is still so poorly adjusted to conditions that the world is annually 
and prematurely robbed of its most valuable assets in human experience, 
for the death rate between 35 and 50 is growing, not diminishing. Is 
it unreasonable to expect that the thousands of home economics stu- 
dents who have graduated during these years should have stemmed 
more effectively this unsatisfactory tide in the affairs of men? 

I do not forget that multiple factors are at work in the world effort 
to promote human progress, of which home economics is only one; 
but, surely, it should rank among the most important; for it is con- 
cerned in a peculiarly intimate way with the control and conduct of 
individual lives from their conception to their close. Its object is the 
inculcation of right methods and practice throughout the earthly career 
of each unit of the world's population. Its aim is to release mankind 
from bondage to unnecessary physical, moral, and mental disabilities, 
and to set human nature free to realize its full inherent powers. Truly 
the Committee was correct when it wrote in the Introduction from 
which I have already quoted that "Home economics is not one 
subject, but a complex." As a matter of fact, it is also a complex 
within a complex. That larger, more comprehensive complex, hygiene, 
includes home economics among its numerous contributory subjects; 
and it is, in my opinion, because this important fact has been over- 
looked, that our subject has in part failed to exert its full share of re- 
formatory influence. Hygiene, — the conservation and maintenance of 
health, — is to me the lens through which we should focus all learning 
upon the advancement of life. Chemistry, physics, mechanics, biology, 
physiology, architecture, music, art, history, geography, literature, 
and, of course, the wide range, past and present, of definitely household 
crafts, — all find their place within this intricate whole of hygiene. But 
I have the impression that too large a percentage of home econom- 
ics students fail to grasp that their primary object is the promotion of 
health, physical, mental, and moral; and that instead their chief end 
is rather the production of more economical, yet equally attractive, 
food, clothing, and shelter than hitherto. That the resultant condi- 
tions should be incidentally more healthful they, of course, admit, but 
the economic and artistic aspects of the students* work are liable to 



396 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

veil their actual relationship to the great object of progressive human 
development. To obviate this tendency is not so much a question of 
the extension of time in college courses, but, rather, of a judicious read- 
justment of the relative values assigned to their subject matter. Lord 
Haldane has defined education as "the power to take a broad view of 
things." These young people come to us to gain power to take this 
broad view; let us be sure we are not giving a stone where they ask for 
bread. 

A study of college catalogues shows the habitual arrangement of 
subject matter into the three main sub-divisions of food, clothing, and 
shelter, associated with the study of their underlying principles. These 
three sub-divisions are of undeniable importance to the right conduct 
of human life; each is closely linked to the other through mutual rela- 
tions to the whole; but this latter fact is liable to be obscured by the 
general method of emphasized subdivision, even to the point of teach- 
ing details in entirely separate departments. Some courses include a 
fourth sub-division, that of household administration, to which usually 
less prominence is assigned, though actually it contains the kernel of 
the whole course; for it treats of the members of the family group; their 
training, duty, and obligations; their standards, and ideals; and the 
interdependence of these with their neighbors and their nation; though, 
so far, the full scope of appHcation to be gained through instruction on 
maternity and child rearing, and on personal and pubhc hygiene is 
not usually indicated. 

To illustrate my point: — Compare the amount of subject matter 
offered in these conventional subdivisions in the Syllabus of Home Eco- 
nomics from which I have already quoted. Sixteen pages are required 
for the subject of Food; Clothing absorbs fourteen; Shelter demands 
twenty-three for its comprehensive material; but Household and Insti- 
tutional Management barely fill six pages. It reminds me of the reason 
why all early manuals of physiology consisted chiefly of anatomy; be- 
cause, before the day of high power miscroscopes and the consequent 
development of biology, the skeleton and hgaments were more accessible 
for minute study than were the soft tissues (the muscles, nerves, and 
organs), upon which depend the functions of the body, which consti- 
tute the actual subject matter of physiology. Similarly half a century 
ago, in the beginning of the study of home economics, comparatively 
little was known of the development through growth of the human 
body; of the intimate connection between mind and body; of our 



1917] SCOPE OF HOME ECONOMICS 397 

ability to improve the quality of the race; of the far-reaching influences 
of inherited tendencies or of the dire consequences of congenital disease. 
The multiplicity of the factors in nutrition was only dimly perceived; 
physiology and hygiene were attractively simple, in theory at any rate. 

It is not a reproach that the values first assigned to parts of so 
comprehensive and important a subject should call for readjust- 
ment and revision in the Hght of knowledge acquired during the 
most progressive half century in the world's history. Reproach 
could only exist were these needs now ignored. This customary sub- 
division has grown, no doubt, in response to the pressure of time and of 
increasing subject matter; but to what degree does this method of pre- 
sentation militate against the object in view? Does it permit of the 
desirably intimate association in the application made from each sub- 
division to the individual needs of the members of the family group; 
does it draw attention to their combined influences on growth, on nutri- 
tion, on mental, physical, and economic stability, or to the social rela- 
tions of the household? Does the conventional method of instruction 
on food and diet, for instance, incite to close coordination with other 
important factors in human efficiency, such as sleep, personal cleanli- 
ness, posture, temperament, form and conditions of family occupations, 
proportions of exercise and recreation? Much of this and other relevant 
matter is actually omitted today from many college courses in home 
economics. It is believed to receive some attention in the physical 
training and other departments; but very rarely is there the close col- 
laboration between the departments which is essential, if true relative 
values are to be perceived or immediate application to her life by the 
student is to be the result. 

To pass on to another cricitism of a prevalent custom. If, as is the 
case, only a certain number of months or years can be given to learning 
the right conduct of life, specialization, much more any attempt at so- 
called research, must be relegated to post-graduate university students. 
College students must not be tempted to premature specialization, but 
must be encouraged to devote all their precious time to the acquire- 
ment of an all-around working knowledge of the subjects grouped as 
home economics; and those responsible for the courses must insure 
that these are carefully set in their correct perspective. Much more 
attention than hitherto must also be given to evidence of personal 
application of their knov/ledge by the students as tested by improved 
health, intelligent clothing, well regulated habits in the care of physical 



398 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Septembei 

needs, and strict habitual practice of the theories upon which hfe should 
be based. 

I do not here suggest a purely "technical" as distinguished from a 
cultural college course; there is no more profound believer than my- 
self in the necessity of affording every opportunity for individual prac- 
tical study in the Hbrary, as in the laboratory and workshop. The 
reasons, as far as they are known, of the practice which is preached, 
must be perceived and pursued. 

But I am sure that the methods, whether in library, laboratory or 
class room, must be reconsidered to the degree that fewer hours shall 
be spent in future college courses in the actual preparation of food or 
in the mere setting of stitches; that no attempt at what is usually mis- 
called "research" shall be permissable except for post-graduate students; 
that standards of attainment shall no longer be estimated by "hours," 
which surely indicate not the quality of work, but only its quantity; 
but that personal hygienic practice, the responsibiHties of parenthood, 
the physical as well as the psychological development of children, the 
social and civic relations of the home, must all receive more definite, 
more extended and more suitably coordinated treatment than is at 
present the rule; and that the part played by the husband and father 
in family welfare must be more accentuated. It is a long time ago 
since Xenophon pointed out that men and women hve in reciprocal 
dependence; only through closer cooperation of both parents can our 
goal be attained. The world admits that home influence is the earliest 
and most permanent element in the formation of character as well as 
in the protection of health; it must now advance a step further and 
recognize that this responsible influence is based upon certain funda- 
mental principles which must be studied and applied equally by men 
and women. 

I have iUustrated what is in my mind in the Outline Scheme I have 
prepared for your criticism on "The Care and Conduct of Family Life." 
It is designed in the first place to indicate the wide range of duties and 
responsibilities briefly summed up in the word domestic, and to bring 
out the necessary realization of the importance of home standards to 
the community with which contacts are formed at so many and such 
varied points. In the second place, it draws attention to the "recip- 
rocal relation" of the two parents in the family circle; it makes obvious 
the indispensable cooperation of the father and mother, if the duties of 
parenthood, as well as of householder and housekeeper are to be fulfilled. 



1917] SCOPE OF HOME ECONOMICS 399 

The eight subdivisions under which their responsibiHties are grouped 
are naturally arbitrary only, and susceptible of much rearrangement or 
modification. They were selected to suggest the diversity of obliga- 
tions usually overlooked. The title of ''Chief Executive Ofiicer" is 
assigned to the mother for three reasons: to suggest her highly important 
position; to hint at the too often neglected division of labor in a family^ 
which she should organize; and to draw attention to the fact that a 
woman must be trained, not only to perform these duties, but to direct 
their performance on a larger scale by others. The Hfe interests carried 
on in the home, and the care called for by this hfe at its various stages 
of development, are purposely assigned prominence. The object of all 
household economics teaching should be the better understanding and 
maintenance of human life; this must be the thread on which all the 
pearls of study are strung. The partnership of man and woman in the 
home; the importance and far reaching influence of family standards 
and practice; the removal of the sore reproach that homes are far from 
being "shelters" for their child occupants; the relation of selves to society; 
emphasis upon the moral and economic aspects of "being well born, "^ 
well tended, well trained, well recreated, well exercised, in home life;, 
all these factors in human welfare and many more should be perceived 
by a study of this outline. They are vital elements, inadequately 
emphasized, insufficiently coordinated, in most of our courses. 

Criticism is invited, urged, in the hope that important readjustments 
may cautiously be made, and rightly tentative efforts be encouraged;, 
and an incentive given to weigh more accurately, than has been, per- 
haps, hitherto possible, the relative values of the scientific and artistic 
studies which rightly underHe home economics courses. 

I should place such an outline in the hands of every freshman and take 
it as the text of a lecture course during the first year, showing, among 
other things, that the object of all college life is to increase opportunities 
for noble hving. Do you remember Ruskin's words to the effect that 
knowledge itself is of little moment unless it result in the exercise in 
daily life of those virtues which lead to character building? The direct 
bearing upon the details of family life of all the selected studies in a 
home economics course would be thereby emphasized, while the fact 
would also be brought forward that, though the indi\idual can become 
an expert in only two or three of the household arts, this is no barrier 
to the acquirement of an intelligent, working knowledge of the others,, 
based upon a framework of fundamental principles. This desirable 



400 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 






.5^ 









J^ 



-5 f 






8 



^ III 

1-0 



--">-5_ 
■L. (1^ 



tS§ 






c?^ 



"0 



-«'S 



c!<5 



t) 


^2 

O «1 


1-5 






,9 3-'» 






•J .2 



^ — 



-V- ^ ,& 1) c 







-K 






.^ 




A 




^ ' 


=" < 


^ 


i 
.<i- 








1 


ki 


s 

^ 


1 






















^ 


•<» , 










= Q 



"I 

■s: 

1 1 



■<5.^ lb 



1917] SCOPE OF HOME ECONOMICS 401 

broad outlook must be cultivated; interest in life as a whole must be 
intensified if efl5ciency is to be increased. 

Xo desire to minimize the time devoted to disciplinary training in 
essential details exists in my mind, rather I aim to direct attention to the 
existing risk of neglecting the synthetic by exaggerated devotion to the 
analytic. Sir Oliver Lodge cautioned us four years ago against the 
modern tendency to over emphasize the "atomic character of every- 
thing," and a similar note of warning is uttered in a suggestive little 
book recently published called "Permanent Values in Education" by 
Kenneth Richmond. "We teach facts" he writes, "and we teach many 
and diverse ideas about the facts, but without the unity that comes of 
tracing their relation to one another." On a later page Richmond 
defines the synthetic method of teaching as "the orderly building to- 
gether of relations," that, he says is the way of reality, yet "reality is 
the goal which we have chiefly failed to seek" and therefore to attain. 

It appears to me that some such coordinating course should find a 
place in each year of a student's college life. This, I think, should al- 
ways be given in the Department of Home Economics, even though 
it might appear as if the duty could be handed over to the Department of 
Sociology, for instance, or to that of Economics or History. Place 
could, I believe, be found for this without any additional demands on 
time, were students in the first instance better trained how to learn; 
were printed outlines provided to replace useless labor in writing out 
notes, and were the manipulation of food stuffs and the needle organized, 
not by the number of hours spent in these arts, but by the standard 
attained ; that is to say, more intensive and intelligent work must super- 
sede existing leakages of time and energy,^ 

In the second place, much closer coordination must be cultivated 
between the di\dsions of our Home Economics Departments than is 
usually found. The misconception is common among students that 
there is almost opposition, at least a broad line of demarkation, between 
what is described as household science and household art. How can 
there be opposition or pronounced division between the fundamentals 
of a subject, its basis, that is, its science, and their utilization and appli- 
cation in suitable form, which is its art. "All art in things of use," 
writes Mr. Glutton Brock, in his exquisite essay on the "Relation of 
Art to Science," "arises naturally out of apphed science and is the result 

^ See pages 2-5, Outline of an Elementary Course in Microbiology, by Jean Broadhurst. 
Published by Teachers College, New York City. 



402 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

of its success. " "We have so specialized art and science, " he continues, 
"that we conceive of art as a mere ornament and luxury of life, and that 
science can be nothing but useful. We should think of art as an empha- 
sis on the beauty that comes of successfully applied science. Natural 
beauty is the result of the expression of function, the product of both 

science and of art Divorce art from science and function, 

and beauty is apt to be lost When objects are designed 

as well as they can be for their purpose and made as well as they can 
be made" then science, art, and craft have their perfect work in the 
result of their combined labors. Do we, therefore, promote the end in 
view by over-emphasized differentiation? 

Specialization is necessary for the expert, such as the college and 
university teacher, but prejudicial, I believe, to the student, whose goal 
is family and institutional management. The obvious tendency of this 
method is to exaggerate a non-existent distinction between the so-called 
science of foods and the arts of clothing or of shelter and thus to militate 
against the real object of that study, the uplift of humanity, by a judi- 
cious combination of these levers. Cooking is surely an art based on the 
sciences of chemistry, physics, biology, and bacteriology; the architect 
engaged in the construction of a healthful house must have received 
preliminary scientific training; the research of the chemist is almost as 
essential as is the design of the artist in the production today of some 
beautiful colored textile fabric. 

Again I ask, might not a revision and rearrangement of some of our 
subject matter promote more rapidly and effectively the end we all have 
in view? Another suggestion offered is that those in charge of these 
courses should lose no opportunity to develop in themselves a higher 
standard in the broad cultural and historical aspects of the subject 
matter of hygiene and home economics. This will foster that sense of 
perspective, that perception of the relation of the parts to the whole, 
which maintains balance and adds dignity and responsibility to the 
course. Students who are under the personal influence of a teacher who 
beHeves that human experience embodied in history, philosophy, and 
literature, as well as in the most recent pronouncement of the sciences, 
is a powerful solvent of the domestic problems of the twentieth century; 
who are in constant contact with one who exemplifies by her open and 
alert mind that knowledge can and must be ceaselessly increased if 
practical achievement is to crown study, will be incited, unconsciously 
but constantly, to pursue true culture, which, just because it takes them 



1917] SCOPE OF HOME ECONOMICS 403 

into wide fields of knowledge, outside their own craft, enhances to an 
amazing degree their own realization of its social and national relations. 
I shall be accused of advocating superficiality; but to my mind there is 
a great gulf fixed between the superficial and the cultural; the one is 
slight shallowness; the other, though also slight, has improvement as its 
object and cultivation as its motive. The range of human knowledge 
is too immense to permit of intimate study of even a tenth of its extent; 
but the man and woman who know something of the evolutionary and 
historical antecedents of their special work in the world, are, in the 
majority of cases, the best and most effective workers; and "a man," 
WTites Ruskin, "is only educated if he is happy, busy, beneficial, and 
effective in the world." 

It is on this account that I view with anxiety the tendency to substi- 
tute a text book for a lecture, as a means of acquainting students with 
parts of their subjects. I know that the idea is to relieve the instructor 
and to benefit the student by transferring the mental effort demanded 
from the one to the other. This is quite good up to a point; growth 
only comes by effort — a lesson which cannot be too soon inculcated. 
But I fail to see just cause why the end cannot be gained by a less Hmit- 
ing means; the very best text-book in the world is unable to embrace all 
the aspects of its subject. So rapid is the increase of information today, 
that text books get quickly behind hand; inevitably they cannot be 
adapted to the varied forms of immaturity present among a group of 
students; indeed I agree with Miss Jean Broadhurst, "text books 
are advantageous for cramming, but, . . . . it is far from desir- 
able that any student should confine her reading to any text book . • . . 
a text book by a lecturer is too much like his lectures; students gain 
much more by having the matter presented in another way in their 

reading variations (by the lecturer) are Hkely to be those 

of method, items of personal experience or difference in application and 
in point of view, all of which add greatly to student interest," and may 
I add to the culture of a class. 

I can refer all too briefly to the fourth reason I offered as Ukely to ac- 
count for the slow permeation of public practice by the teachings of 
home economics, namely, the omission on the part of graduates to 
assume a sufiSiciently influential position in social and civic Hfe, so that 
they fail to diffuse by example and standard the tenets they profess. 
Without arrogating to myself authority to pass judgment upon many 
earnest students, I do nevertheless feel that they are too retiring, too 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

much absorbed in the demands of their work, along whatever Hne pur- 
sued, to take the authoritative and prominent part they are entitled 
to play in life outside their universities, colleges, or institutions. Want 
of time and over-taxed energies are the obvious reasons for this in the 
majority of cases; to which rule there are, as we are all proudly aware, 
certain brilliant exceptions. But the very fact that the exceptions are 
so rare points to the foundation for my criticism. 

Our Home Economics Association must be recognised as a force work- 
ing along scientific, economic, and civic lines for the public welfare; 
our graduates must be bolder missionaries, more emphatic preachers, 
more widely recognised leaders, more utilized as courts of appeal on mat- 
ters of daily practice for the well being of the community, more obvious 
examples of personal conformity to the principles they stress to their 
students. There is such a thing as confusing misplaced diffidence with 
legitimate humility; a deprecatory, retiring attitude is not the best 
advertisement of a great cause. It is as essential to express firm faith in 
audible accents as it is to show it by works. "God fulfils Himself in 
many ways." Let us also remember that, when emulating the highest 
example in our determination to utihze our knowledge for the benefit 
of manldnd, "there is no rest for those who elect to serve under the banner 
of progress. They must ever march onward and extend their field of 
operation." 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION AND SOCIAL HYGIENE 405 

THE RELATION OF HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION TO 

SOCIAL HYGIENE! 

JAMES H. FOSTER 

Assistant Secretary, American Social Hygiene Association, New York City 

The social hygiene movement is, naturally enough, better understood 
as it grows and gains force, but even yet the question comes up again 
and again — WTiat is social hygiene? What are its purposes and its 
methods? A few years ago when the American Social Hygiene Associa- 
tion was organized its articles of incorporation contained this statement, 
formulated by Dr. Charles W. Eliot: 

The purposes of this Association shall be to acquire and diffuse knowledge 
of the established principles and practices and of any new methods which 
promote, or give assurance of promoting, social health; to advocate the high- 
est standards of private and pubhc morality; to suppress commercialized vice; 
to organize the defense of the community by every available means, educa- 
tional, sanitary, or legislative, against the diseases of vice; to conduct, on 
request, inquiries into the present condition of prostitution and the venereal 
diseases in American towns and cities; and to secure mutual acquaintance and 
sympathy and cooperation among the local societies for these or similar 
purposes. 

This statement draws together the several Hues of attack which had 
been followed for many years by those who reaUzed the menace to our 
institutions which Ues in the evils with which social hygiene seeks to 
cope. It includes in essence the educational, medical, legal, social, and 
moral attacks upon the social hygiene problem which have gained so 
much support from public opinion during the past few years. But it 
still leaves social hygiene as a large and generalized group of activities 
rather than a well-defined concept. 

More recently Dr. EHot again wrote of social hygiene as directed "to 
the promotion and guidance of sex education, the estabUshment of the 
single standard of morality, and the suppression of prostitution and its 
associated evils — venereal disease, mental and moral degeneracy, and 
economic waste." Dr. Snow showed some of the imphcations of 
such activities when he pointed out that: "It may now be said that 
social hygiene is essentially a constructive movement for the promotion 
of all those conditions of li\ing, environment, and personal conduct 

1 Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, N. Y., 1916. 



406 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

which will best protect the family as an institution and secure a rational 
sex life for the individuals of each generation." 

Social hygiene thus relates itself broadly and vitally to home and 
community life. Its function as a protector of family and home brings 
it close to home economics education, at least in its broader sense as I 
conceive the purposes and ends of such education. If home economics 
were purely utilitarian, one might look to the economic side of social 
hygiene. But if it is, as I believe, shot through with idealism, and 
looks beyond the ways and means of food and shelter, the broad field of 
education for sex life is open for our consideration. 

The primary concern of social hygiene educational effort is to teach 
the individual to understand the facts of sex and reproduction as they 
are presented to him by his environment or by his own physical and 
mental experiences, and to make such knowledge an effective guide for 
his thoughts and acts in such relations. 

This involves not only the physiology and anatomy and something 
of the psychology of sex, but also the laws of heredity, or what is popu- 
larly called "eugenics," the main facts of venereal diseases, and such 
related knowledge as every mature person should have. The problem 
is to present effectively this body of information as it is needed by the 
individual as he grows from infancy to maturity, so that at each stage 
he may have only that information which he needs in dealing with his 
experiences, and yet may have it before he encoimters any particular 
problem. 

Upon this basis, I venture to outline the progressive need for sex 
knowledge as the child grows to maturity: 

The boy is born with the hereditary characteristics and possibilities trans- 
mitted to him by his parents. He cannot choose these parents nor can he 
control the kind of care and training they may give him. Until birth he is 
entirely dependent on the nourishment and protection from injury and dis- 
ease which the body of his mother can afford. After birth for a year or more 
he is what his parents and others make of him. After that he is still largely 
the product of parental care for many years, but is increasingly acquiring 
knowledge and conducting experiments in governing and providing for him- 
self. 

When he arrives at the age of fourteen or thereabouts he finds himself being 
made over, and extensive additions and alterations appear without his under- 
standing or consent. 

AU these are but secondary changes in the transition of the boy to man- 



1917] HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION AND SOCIAL HYGIENE 407 

hood. Even more profound changes are occurring in those structures and tis- 
sues of the body especially devoted to the functions of sex. The boy finds 
himself the victim of strange thoughts and emotions which he does not under- 
stand, and physiological activities which cause him to doubt the soundness of 
his health. He comes under the domination of varying moods, ideals, and 
purposes. Without wilfully being disobedient, he may gain a reputation for 
laziness and inattention during the first years of adolescence, and later for 
being reckless and in a constant state of mihtant activity. 

On his twenty-first birthday he is pronounced legally of age and by the time 
he is twenty-five we recognize him as fully equipped to take his place in the 
world's work. From the moment of blending of the two sex-cells through 
which he received his heritage from his father and mother, it has been his 
task, as Chancellor Jordan has phrased it, to "bring its discordant elements 
into some sort of harmony — to form his ego by the union of these elements." 
It has been and must continue to be "his task to soften down their contradic- 
tions. He must train his elements of strength to be helpful to some one, in 
some way, that others may be helpful to him. He must give his weak powers 
exercise so that their weakness shall not bring him disaster in the competition 
of life. For it is likely that somewhere, somehow, it will be proved that no 
chain is stronger than its weakest link. Other powers not too weak, nor over- 
strong [he] must perforce neglect because in the hurry of life there is not time 
for every desirable thing. In these ways the character of [his] inheritance is 
steadily changing under his hands. As he grows older one after another of 
the careers that might have been his, the men he might have been, vanish 
from his path forever. On the other hand, by steady usage, a slender thread 
of capacity has so grown as to become like strong cordage, [and] he achieves 
at last, in greater or less degree, the 'higher heredity,' the fate that each man 
must create for himself." 

He had no choice in his own parentage, but he can choose for his children 
to the extent that he may select for them a mother who possesses heritable 
quaHties he does not have; and he can be sure of handing on to them his part 
of their heritage as he received it; and he can provide the environment and the 
guidance which wiU enable his children to make the most of their inheritance. 
All this he may glimpse dimly during adolescence, but there comes a time 
when some driving force within him crystallizes it and stirs new emotions 
and purposes. The altruistic and impersonal hero worship and sentiment for 
womankind which characterized his period of early adolescence is replaced by 
a desire for the comradeship and love of the woman who will understand his 
ambitions and w^hom he may protect and provide with a home. As he grows 
in experience as a breadwinner and in knowledge as a father he plans for the 
future success of his children, and directly or indirectly he concerns himself 
with their careers and their mating. 



408 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

What is true of the boy is essentially true of the girl. She has her child- 
hood period of growth, her adolescent development, her realization of the 
power and beauty of womanhood, and her sharing with men in the work of 
the world. She has her supreme experience of motherhood, and her final 
understanding of woman's great part in the passing on of human life and prog- 
ress to succeeding generations. Thus in its normal, unobtrusive way sex 
plays a part throughout the life of every individual and makes its plea to 
each generation for fair play in passing on the stream of Ufe to succeeding 
generations. 

The social hygiene movement is one of the major factors in the conserva- 
tion of men and women in order that our children's children may have the 
minds and bodies to utilize most effectively the physical world which we shall 
bequeath them. We are now asked the question, "Will we let them come, 
taking our place, gaining through our experiences, hallowed through our joys, 
building on them their own? Or will we throw their hope away, decreeing 
wanton-like, that the race they might have been shall never be?" 

The teaching of sex hygiene, so called, is not a foblem of the schools; it 
is a problem related to this entire span of years. When we trace the child back 
to his first knowledge of the phenomena of reproduction and sex, it is conceded 
by all that much of his information is obtained before the age when he enters 
school; and it must be conceded that much of the knowledge on this subject 
he will require in later years can not be wisely applied or fully comprehended 
until long after the age at which the majority of children leave our schools. 

We may approximately parallel the seven ages of man by the seven stages 
of sex hj^giene and education. First, the infant requires the foundation which 
may be given by the parents through attention to such important physical 
and social factors as proper food, cleanliness, regular habits, attractive home 
surroundings, real comradeship between parents and children, clean-minded, 
active playmates, and correction of defects or conditions calculated to produce 
sex stimuli. And here begins the formation of good manners which are in 
fullest truth akin to good morals. 

During the second stage the child wants to know where things come from. 
Sooner or later he will ask about the origin of babies. The stork story, like 
that of Santa Claus, satisfies him for a time, but probably for no longer than 
the Santa Claus story. His discovery that the latter is not true is immedi- 
ately supplanted by the facts, while in the former his discovery generally leads 
only to more unsatisfactory and evasive answers to his questions. 

Recently a letter came to our office from the mother of a little girl. It con- 
tained this paragraph : 

"Little Margaret (aged four and a half years) asked her father 'Where do 
babies come from?' 'They grow,' said her father. 'What do they grow from?' 
Father, thinking to turn her off, said, 'Oh, nothing.' Margaret went away 



191 7 j HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION AND SOCIAL HYGIENE 409 

and thought for a time, then with a puzzled expression came back and said, 
'Well, I think it is funny that a real baby can grow from nothing.' " 

Obviously the schools can not meet the present needs of this child except 
through providing the parents with information upon how to answer such 
questions. When the child enters school, however, this and any other mis- 
information she may have obtained should be corrected by some school officer 
if the parents will not meet the situation. 

The third stage of five or six years' duration represents that period during 
which the child is acquiring impersonal knowledge about sex and reproduction 
in nature. He learns about the pollination of flowers, the breeding of live- 
stock, the mating of birds. He learns something of the meaning of birth and 
motherhood among his pets. All this is natural and objective like other knowl- 
edge of natural phenomena. Here and there, where opportunity offers through- 
out the grammar grades in nature study, in geography, in history, in composi- 
tion, the half-truths the child obtains through these channels should be ampli- 
fied and given dignified meaning. The words sex education and sex hygiene 
need never escape from the conference room of the teachers where the cur- 
riculum is planned. 

The fourth stage demands information upon the intensely personal problem 
of the beginning adolescent changes. Here the responsibility for instruction 
again shifts to the parents or to a divided responsibility of the parents and 
teachers. There is need of careful discrimination in measuring individual 
children and their environment to determine at any given age the amount of 
information they require upon reproduction and sex phenomena. Unfortu- 
nately the method of grading children, adolescents, and adults on the basis 
of age alone, has been applied to sex education, as it has in the past been ap- 
phed to physical education and most other subjects. But both parents and 
teachers are realizing the error in this and beginning to work together on the 
development of individual instruction or effective grouping of boys and girls 
for necessary instruction upon the meaning of adolescence. 

The late adolescent stage (fifth) of final development into manhood and 
womanhood requires instruction in personal hygiene of sex, the facts about 
venereal diseases and their transmission, and the reasons for demanding con- 
tinence until marriage. 

There follows the stage (sixth) of mating when knowledge of the responsi- 
bilities of marriage and parenthood is needed. Here the high schools and 
universities should provide adequate instruction for their students, and should 
cooperate with parents and social hygiene societies in extension work through 
night schools, shop talks, and other educational devices for reaching the great 
majority of young people who leave school after passing the grammar grades. 
Lastly (seventh) there is the stage of parenthood when the father and mother 
are in need of training in methods of elementary teaching and in providing 
the proper environment for children. 



410 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Such in brief are the opportunities of the home and school in social hygiene. 
Let us for a moment consider the limitations of the home and the school in 
this field. Just as society can follow the child into the home to a limited de- 
gree only, so the parents can control the environment of their child outside the 
home to only a limited degree. One of the important duties of parents and 
teachers is to obtain proper supervision for the recreation and amusements 
of young and old. The vice investigations have been valuable in providing 
information upon the part which unsanitary factories, over-crowded offices, 
fatigue, the evil influence of designing acquaintances and numerous other 
factors, collectively play in the environment of the workers in both city and 
country. 

It is obvious that the period when the average child's time is fully occupied 
and controlled by the home and at school is limited to the pre-adolescent 
period. I would not argue from this that we should therefore advocate giving 
all children special courses in sex information which they can not understand, 
and will not need for years, but rather that we should follow these children 
out into the industrial world and instruct them there at the ages when informa- 
tion on the various phases of the subject is required. 

For the student, teacher, and practitioner of home economics there 
are not only the general demands, opportunities, and privileges of social 
hygiene work such as come to all and appeal especially to such of us as 
give heed to the facts, now better known and better interpreted, which 
meet us in our daily relations with our several tasks in life; but there are 
also special privileges and special demands. Teachers need to be trained 
to understand sex problems as they constantly arise in their schools, 
and to be able to encourage and assist, not only their pupils, but also 
others, especially in parent-teacher conferences. The school which has 
a teacher with, the personality and knowledge requisite for advisory 
work with small groups and with individuals is indeed fortunate. 

For the home economist who turns her attention to social service 
there arises an almost limitless range of personal contacts, giving rare op- 
portunities for advice, warning, and instruction, sometimes for saving 
irremediable mistakes, and again for rescue and reconstruction. There 
is no need to dwell upon the part the vv^orker in this field can play, or 
upon the positive constructive results that may be attained through sane 
and sound counsel, given not only to inquirers but to many who hardly, 
if at all, know their own need. 

In the home, the parents' work-shop as it has been called, teacher, 
social worker, and student may, as I have suggested, help the parent to 



1917] NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES AND CORRECTIONS 411 

a solution for the sex problems of the whole family, from baby to grand- 
parent. How much greater the privilege, more urgent the duty, and 
keener the joy of service and realized aspiration, which fall to the lot 
of the well informed father and mother who see their children meeting 
their daily problems with courage and self control. What such parents 
do for their children is as truly work as the father's wage-earning or the 
mother's housekeeping. 

For all this we need — that overworked word — preparedness. That 
means that the university, the college, and the normal school have a large 
share, potentially, through giving the necessary instruction; that their 
graduates have a clear duty to put to use their more or less thorough 
knowledge of social hygiene ; and that the home and school may coope- 
rate, especially in parent-teacher associations, in plans for reasonable sex- 
teaching. The home economist must remember that one meaning of 
social hygiene is home and family preservation and upbuilding; that it 
is thus vitally interwoven with all that works to these ends; and that 
the ideal family, father, mother, and children, need the ideal home, for- 
tified by sturdy morahty and plain common sense, for their ideal life. 



NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES AND 
CORRECTIONS 

PITTSBURGH, PA.; JUNE 6-13, 1917 

For the first time in the history of the National Conference of Chari- 
ties and Corrections, a group of home economics workers and social 
workers met for discussion of the relationship between home economics 
and social service. Nearly seventy-five were present at the Home 
Economics Luncheon Saturday, June 9, held under the direction of the 
Social Work Committee of the American Home Economics Association. 
A small group of home economics workers, especially interested in visit- 
ing housekeeping, also met several times during the conference week. 

Discussion at the luncheon centered around the big question of the 
day — a practical food conservation program. Dr. C.-E. A. Winslow, 
of Yale University, vi\ddly and clearly outlined the need for food con- 



412 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

servation. Reports were given of plans for campaigns in Pittsburgh, 
Boston, Baltimore, New York, Seattle, and Chicago. 

Miss Winifred S. Gibbs told of the development of social work in 
home economics during the ten years of her service with the New York 
Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor and of her interest- 
ing new Community work in Rochester in connection with the Chamber 
of Commerce and Mechanics Institute. 

Miss Bessie C. Lee of the Visiting Housekeeper Association in De- 
troit discussed the activities of her stafif of seven trained workers and 
the relationship existing between her association and various factories 
and social agencies in Detroit. Other visiting housekeepers reporting 
were: Miss Harper of the Associated Charities, Erie, Pa; Miss Caldwell, 
of Rochester; Miss Carr, of the Pittsburgh Associated Charities; and 
Miss Collins of the Chicago Commons. 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy, Chief of the Ofhce of Home Economics, U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, discussed the subject matter of food con- 
servation and gave many practical suggestions for waste prevention, 
food preservation, and meal-planning to insure adequate nutrition. 

Mrs. John M. Glenn, former President of the National Charities and 
Corrections Conference and now Executive Secretary of the New York 
Civilian Relief Committee of the American Red Cross, spoke inspiringly 
of the contributions which she believed home economics people could 
make during the present emergency, both through our own workers and 
the advice and instructions which we can give to others. She urged, 
however, that we learn from the family case-worker that families differ 
greatly and have to be studied and handled indi\idually rather than as 
a group. From her experience as a member of the Advisory Committee 
on Home Economics in the New York Charity Organization Society 
she feels that too often we place great emphasis upon establishing a 
standard and having all famihes live according to it. This is desirable 
to a certain extent, but should not be so stressed that there is no con- 
sideration of individual variations which always have existed and always 
will. 

In the general discussion which followed, these points were especially 
emphasized : 

Food advice to foreign families must be based on an actual knowledge 
of their dietary habits. 

Men need food education as well as women. Much can often be 
more quickly done by appealing to men than by appealing to women. 



1917J NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CHARITIES AND CORRECTIONS 413 

This is especially true among the foreign groups where the man's desire 
rather than the woman's usually controls home life. 

The educational value of the cafeteria lunch was brought out by the 
director of one of the Pittsburgh school lunch rooms, and also by Mrs. 
Routzahn of the Russell Sage Foundation, who told of her experiences in 
being given food education at a New York cafeteria where all trays are 
inspected and criticized by a trained dietitian. 

Mr. E. G. Routzahn, Associate Director of the Department of Sur- 
veys and Exhibits of the Russell Sage Foundation, urged that more 
attention be given to the proper planning and arrangement of printed 
matter used in food conservation campaigns so that essential points 
would be most effectively brought out. He also urged that we use well- 
planned lantern sHdes, good window displays, and interesting general 
exhibits to supplement lectures and demonstrations. He criticized the 
apparent tendency in food conservation campaigns to try to accomplish 
too much at a single time, rather than breaking the general program 
into successive steps and emphasizing each one separately in every pos- 
sible way. 

Miss Marian Perkins of the Brooklyn Bureau of Charities told of the 
cooking demonstrations which have been held in Brooklyn under the 
leadership of Miss Florence Nesbitt. 

Miss Emma A. Winslow told of similar work done in New York under 
the Charity Organization Society and of the report of this experiment 
soon to be prepared for publication, and also spoke briefly of the food 
conservation work to be undertaken by the States Relations Service 
of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, if the food bill before Congress 
is finally approved. This work is -to be done by emergency food agents 
working under the direction of the State Colleges of Agriculture and is 
to be carried on in urban as well as rural districts. Miss Winslow 
urged the cooperation of home economics and social workers in helping 
to make this service as successful and effective as possible. 

The Home Economics Luncheon was, of course, only a minor part of 
the big Conference program. A number of the conference sessions 
were devoted to the discussion of Social Problems of the War, and stimu- 
lating, constructive addresses were made by Irving Fisher and C.-E. A. 
Winslow of Yale University, Miss Helen Reid of the Canadian Patriotic 
Fund, W. Frank Persons, Eugene T. Lies, Elliott Wadsworth, and others 
of the American Red Cross, Edward T. Devine, William H. Taft, and 
many others of national and international prominence. 



414 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

At one of the metings of the Health Section, Miss Lucy H. Gillett of 
the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, 
gave a very interesting report of the practical conclusions to be drawn 
from the dietary study she has just completed under the direction of 
Professor Henry C. Sherman. Other distinguished speakers at this 
meeting were Professor Graham Lusk of Cornell University and Dr. Carl 
Alsberg of the Bureau of Chemistry, U. S, Department of Agriculture. 

The full proceedings of the Conference will soon be available in printed 
form, and should prove helpful to the home economics worker as well 
as the social worker. 

The Conference, under its new name, National Conference of Social 
Work, will meet in June of next year at Kansas City, Miss Winslow, 
Chairman of the Social Work Committee of the Association, was ap- 
pointed a member of the Conference Committee on Problems of the 
War and Reconstruction, and it is hoped that next year's meetings will 
still further strengthen the active connection betvveen those interested 
especially in the problems within the home and those who deal with 
the broad social and economic problems which influence the home so 
strongly from without. 

Emma A. Winslow. 

SOME NEEDS OF THE AMERICAN RED CROSS 

A cablegram lately received from Paris by the American Red Cross 
gives the following list of articles that are urgently required: — 

1,000,000 comfort bags. 1,000,000 mufflers of dark material, at least 
2 yards long and 1 foot wide. 1,000,000 sweaters of dark material.. 
1,000,000 pairs heavy worsted mitts. 

The suggestion is made that amateur effort be used on the above 
named articles rather than on socks because many hand knitted socks 
have inequalities which are hard on soldiers feet. These articles should 
be shipped as soon as possible. 

There seems to be a substantial supply of muslin bandages on hand 
but there is need for gauze bandages in as large quantities as they can 
be shipped. 

It is asked that all the above be hurried, since they are urgently 
needed. The suffering last winter was frightful and will probably be 
worse this year. Most of the materials named can be used not only 
for soldiers but also for the civilian population if necessary. 



1917] AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING FOOD VALUES 415 

AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING FOOD VALUES^ 

ISABEL BEVIER ' 

Director of Household Science, University of Illinois 

The misfortunes of the war are evident on every hand. Its benefits 
are not nearly so easily seen and yet they are beginning to appear. In 
spite of the teaching of years, the great mass of the people have been 
indifferent to "scientific feeding," and have preferred the good old way. 
No ''new-fangled notions," no ''calories," "just food" has been the cry. 

With the shortage of food and the demands for saving it, there has 
come even to the mind of "the people" their helplessness because of 
their ignorance of food values. The people are writing to Washington, 
to the agricultural colleges, to anybody and to everybody for help in 
saving food. In response to this demand a great variety of helps to 
the housewife are appearing. Mr. Hoover's instruction card and the 
Government devices are variations of lessons in food values. Everyone 
understands perfectly that four quarters may take the place of one dol- 
lar in buying food, but many people cannot tell how many eggs at forty 
cents per dozen may be used to replace in food value round steak at 
twenty-five cents per pound, or how to substitute for a quart of milk. 
It is easy even now to see that the term food value is beginning to re- 
ceive respectful attention, and that way lies the basis for wise buying 
of food. 

The University of Illinois has many avenues of approach to the food 
question. Its classes in selection and preparation of food, in dietetics, 
its practise apartment, and its lunchroom, each has studied its particu- 
lar part of the problem this year with unusual care. 

The lunchroom afforded the easiest approach to the general public 
and was therefore chosen as the medium for helping its patrons and 
through them a larger circle to what might be called selection of food 
or efl&cient and economic eating. It was thought that an idea of the 
general food habits of a few of its patrons could be secured by listing 
their menus for a period of time. Five different types of individuals 
were chosen from the regular patrons — a man student, a woman stu- 
dent, two faculty women, and one faculty man. Their menus were 
observed and calculated for fifteen days. Some of the results obtained 
are given below. 

^ A full report of this work is given in a bulletin just published by the Household Science 
Department of the University of Illinois. 



416 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



(2) 



Bread 


Meat pie 


Butter 


Browned potatoes 


Frankfurters 


Chocolate cake 




Orange ice 


Protein Calories 


Total Calories 


90 


962 



(1) 

Frankfurters Mince pie 

Baked beans Nut cake 

Chocolate ice cream 
Protein Calories Total Calories 

205 1517 



(3) 

Bread, 2 slices Baked beans 

Butter Mashed potatoes 

Beef a la mode Gravy 

Vanilla ice cream 

Protein Calories Total Calories 

255 1268 

The above lunches are examples of too much protein with entire 
absence of fresh fruits and vegetables. 



(4) 



(5) 



Bread 


Rice and tomato 


Bread 


Tomato and lettuce 


Muffin 


Asparagus on toast 


Butter 


salad 


Butter 


White cake and 


Salmon loaf and 


Yellow cake and 




frosting 


cream sauce 


frosting 


Protein Calories 


Total Calories 


Protein Calories 


Total Calories 


104 


1005 


112 
(6) 


1095 




Roll 


Vegetable soup 






Crackers 


Creamed cauliflower 






Butter 


Tomato salad 






Protein Calories 


Total Calories 






77 


603 





The above menus are good examples of the use of fresh vegetables. 



(7) 



Eread, 2 slices 


Navy beans 




(.«j 


Butter 


Baked creamed 


Bread, 2 slices 


Mashed potatoes 


Baked eggs 


potatoes 


Butter 


Gravy- 




Apple pie 


Baked eggs 


Apple pie 


Protein Calories 


Total Calories 


Protein Calories 


Total Calories 


130 


1054 


91 
(9) 


851 




Bread, 2 slices 


Mashed potatoes • 






Butter 


Gravy 






Lima beans 


Lemon pie 
Peach, h 






Protein Calories 


Total Calories 






59 


821 





1917] 



AN EXPERIMENT IN TEACHING FOOD VALUES 



417 



The above are illustrations of monotony; mashed potatoes and pie 
with the absence of fresh vegetables. 

These nine menus represent the common mistakes in diet: too much 
protein, or absence of fresh fruits and vegetables, and lack of variety. 

The average fuel value of each person's lunches for fifteen days was: 

Calories 

Faculty man 768 

Faculty woman 775 

Faculty woman 924 

Student girl 931 

Student man 1028 

In order to help those interested to make a better selection the usual 
cafeteria menu board was rearranged in the following manner.^ 

1. Meat and meat substitutes — protein. 

2. Green vegetables and fruits — acids and minerals. 

3. Starchy and creamed vegetables — starches. 

4. Desserts other than fruits — sugars and fats. 

Beside the menu board were placed the following charts: 

Menu A Menu B 

Take Take 

(1) Meat (1) Meat 

or Meat substitute or Meat substitute 
Eggs Eggs 

Macaroni and cheese Macaroni and cheese 

Rice and cheese Rice and cheese 

or Cream soup or Cream soup 
and and 

(2) Rice (2) Green vegetable 
or Macaroni • or Fruit 

or Potatoes or Salad 

or Hominy or Vegetable soup 

or Creamed vegetable or Relishes 
and and 

(3) Green vegetable (3) Pie 
or Fruit or Cake 

or Salad or Pudding 

or Vegetable soup or Ice cream 
or Relishes and 

and (4) Bread and butter 

(4) Bread and butter 



2 Adapted from Caroline L. Hunt and Helen W. Atwater, "How to Select Foods," 
Farmers Bulletin 808, United States Department of Agriculture. 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Before any of the above work was possible, it was necessary to have 
the food value determined in terms of portions or servings. While this 
involves a good deal of labor, it also places the work of cooking on a 
scientific basis and makes possible an economic study of the food mate- 
rials used. It also lessens the dangers of inaccuracy and miscalculations 
regarding quantities and the possible number of servings from a given 
quantity, a question difficult for the inexperienced to answer. 

The lunchroom manager may not be able to make good cooks of 
her students in one semester, for good cooking is an art acquired by 
much practice, but it is possible by this means to help students to learn 
to think of portions in terms of calorific value. 

As was to be expected, some of the patrons scoffed and declared they 
wished food, not calories, but later it was evident that some of the 
scoffers had reached the stage of curiosity as to what was on the board, 
and it is beheved that many of them will soon be ready for the next 
step, — the calorific value of each article or suggested combinations giving 
the fuel value. 



A Meatless, Wheatless Meal served 
in Dining Hall, University Farm, 
St. Paul, July 23, 1917. 



Pea Soup 

Rye Croutons 

Dill Pickles 

Boiled Cabbage Buttered Turnips 

Mashed Potatoes Lima Beans 

Rice Cornflake Fritters Maple Drip 

Rye Bread Oatmeal bread 

Corn Bread Butter 

Raisin Indian Pudding Lemon Sauce 

Lemonade 



1917] WORK OF THE FOOD ADMINISTRATION 419 

THE WORK OF THE FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

While for some months the Food Administration, under the leadership 
of Mr. Hoover, has been gathering together workers and formulating 
plans, it was only on August 10 that the United States Food Administra- 
tion was officially created, and that Herbert Hoover, on his birthday, 
was formally appointed as Food Administrator. 

In estimating the work of the Food Administration, three things must 
be kept in mind, the very short time it has been in existence, the pow- 
ers conferred upon it by Congress, and the real purpose for which it was 
created. 

There seems to have been a general and entirely unfounded expecta- 
tion that the immediate result was to be a lowering of retail food prices, 
though Congress had conferred no power of such direct control. The 
main purpose is not lowering of prices, though it is hoped that this will 
result, but the conservation of food. To use Mr. Hoover's words: 

The hopes of the Food Administration are threefold. First, to so guide the 
trade in the fundamental food commodities as to eliminate vicious specula- 
tion, extortion, and wasteful practices and to stabilize prices in the essential 
staples ; second, to guard our exports so that against the world's shortage we 
retain sufficient supplies for our own people and to cooperate with the allies 
to prevent inflation of prices; and, third, that we stimulate in every manner 
within our power the saving of our food in order that we may increase exports 
to our allies to a point which will enable them to properly provision their 
armies and to feed their peoples during the coming winter. 

To carry out these purposes we are asked not to go without needed 
food, indeed we are urged to "eat wisely and well," but to choose our 
foods in such a way that those most needed across the seas, especially 
the most concentrated foods, such as wheat, beef, pork, dairy products, 
and sugar may be saved for export. We have for our own use an abun- 
dance of food stuffs of other kinds — the perishables, fish, corn and other 
cereals — and we are asked so far as possible to substitute these for those 
other products of greater use abroad. 

Mr. Hoover tells us that 70 per cent of our people are "as thrifty and 
careful as any in the world," and that of these we need ask only such 
substitution as is possible, but he asks the other 30 per cent "by simpler 
living" to reduce consumption. He warns against waste in these words: 

Every ounce of waste is a contribution toward starvation. Our allies have 
reduced consumption by the most drastic measures, but it is impossible to 
reduce consumption to those in war work and engaged in other physical labor. 



420 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Therefore the incidence of this drastic reduction among our allies falls upon 
the old people and the women and children, and any shortage in the supplies 
we may send them will fall upon this class and this class only, for until they 
are reduced to starvation they themselves will insist on every sacrifice in order 
that their fighters in the trenches and the men and women in the munition 
factories may be maintained. 

There is no royal road to food conservation. It can be accomplished only 
through sincere and earnest daily cooperation in the 20,000,000 kitchens and 
at the 20,000,000 dinner tables of the United States. If we can reduce our 
consumption of wheat flour by 1 pound, our meat by 7 ounces, our fat by 7 
ounces, our sugar by 7 ounces per person per week, these quantities, multi- 
plied by 100,000,000, will immeasurably aid and encourage our allies, help 
our own growing armies, and so effectively serve the great and noble cause of 
humanity in which our nation has embarked. 

It is to encourage and stimulate this food conservation that the pledge 
card has been devised and that the nation wide campaign for signatures 
is to be begun in October. 

Let it be clearly understood that those who are using only enough — 
much less those who are using too little — are not asked to use less. 
They are asked to substitute when they can, and not even to do this 
if it means a greater expenditure of money. 

But it is true that our per capita consumption of both sugar and fat 
is at least an ounce of each more than the best dietetic standards ask, 
and this means, since many have too little, that some are using a great 
deal too much. 

In order that proper substitution of foods be made, it is necessary that 
every one who is providing food know what is meant by an adequate 
diet, and that everyone understand enough of the characteristics of foods 
to substitute safely one food for another. 

It is in helping get this message over to as many women as possible 
that home economics has found itself a place in the food conservation. 
The control of transportation and of export, and the fixing of prices to 
the producer are some of the many problems that are confronting the 
Food Administration. 

The duty has been laid upon the Food Administration to cooperate with 
the patriotic men in trades and commerce, that we may eliminate the evils 
which have grown into our system of distribution, that the burden may fall 
equitably upon all by restoration, so far as may be, of the normal course of 
trade. It is the purpose of the Food Administration to use its utmost power 
and the utmost ability that patriotism can assemble to ameliorate this 
situaticn to such a degree as may be possible. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE FAMILY BALANCED RATION 

In time of war as in time of peace it is not only important, but essential 
that the people be well fed. Victory does not depend alone on guns and 
soldiers; it depends as well on the efficiency of every man, woman, and 
child back of the firing hne. To maintain this efficiency there must be 
enough food and it must be so cooked and so combined as to be both pal- 
atable and nourishing. 

The selection or organization of food in the diet is as important as 
the organization of an army; a small amount of food rightly combined 
will give more energy than a large amount badly combined, just as a 
small disciplined force of soldiers is more effective than an untrained mob. 

There is nothing mysterious about planning the cheapest, most palat- 
able and most nutritious meals. On the fingers of one hand the dif- 
ferent groups of foods can be counted thus : 

1 . Foods depended on for mineral matters, vegetable acids, and body- 
regulating substances. 

2. Foods depended on for protein. 

3. Foods depended on for starch. 

4. Foods depended on for sugar. 

5. Foods depended on for fat. 

If all these groups are included in the diet the body will lack no nec- 
essary kind of material. To illustrate: 



GROUP 1. Foods depended on for mineral 






matters, vegetable acids, and body- 






regulating substances 


GROUP 2. Foods depended on for protein- 




for muscle 


building 


Fruits: Vegetables: 






Apples, pears, etc. Salads — lettuce, 


Milk, skim milk, 


Fish 


Bananas celery, etc. 


cheese, etc. 


Dried peas, beans, 


Berries Potherbs or "greens" 


Eggs 


cowpeas, etc. 


Melons Potatoes and root 


Meat 


Nuts 


Oranges, lemons, vegetables 


Poultry 




etc. Green peas, beans, etc. 






Tomatoes, squash, etc. 







421 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

GROUP 4. Foods depended on for sugar 
GROUP 3. Foods depended on for starch ^^^^^ Candies 

Cereal grains, meals, Cakes, cookies, Molasses Fruits preserved in 

flours, etc. starchy puddings, Sirups sugar, jellies, and 

Cereal breakfast etc. Honey dried fruits 

foods Potatoes and other Sweet cakes and desserts 

l''i ^^''^y ^"S"'^- GROUPS. Foods depended on for fat 

Crackers Dies 

Macaroni and other B'ltter and cream Salt pork and bacon 

igg Lard, suet, and other Table and salad oils 

cooking fats. 

Think of foods in these groups. If possible, see to it that at least one 
food from each group is served at least once a day. Learn from a study of 
these groups how to make up your own menus, and how to substitute 
one food for another in accordance with palatability and price. When 
laying in supplies of foods, think in terms of these groups. Realize, for 
example, that when it is difficult to obtain meat, dried beans and peas, 
dried fish and nuts can be eaten instead, and that the cereals, too, are 
rich in protein. When potatoes are scarce, rice or cornmeal is an ex- 
cellent substitute. 

A knowledge of these facts will prevent much sickness and useless 
expenditure of money. Consult with neighbors. Get in touch with 
your County Agent, your State Agricultural College, or with the United 
States Department of Agriculture if you want more information. 

The war must be won in the kitchens and on the dining tables of 
America as well as in the trenches. The Department of Agriculture 
stands ready to supply information to help the housewife do her bit 
toward winning this war. Carl Vrooman, 

Assistant Secretary of Agriculture. 

The Department of Agriculture is the central agency of the United 
States for collecting information regarding the rational and effective use 
of human food. Further suggestions along these Unes will be found in 
the following bulletins which are available for free distribution upon but 
postal card request: Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It, F. B. 
565; How to Select Foods— I, What The Body Needs, F. B. 808; How 
to Select Foods— II, Cereal Foods, F.B. 817; How to Select Foods— III, 
Foods Rich in Protein, F. B. 824; How to Select Foods— IV, Fruits and 
Vegetables, F. B. (not yet numbered); Home Canning by the One- 
period Cold-pack Method, F. B. 839; Drying Fruits and Vegetables in 
the Home, F. B. 841, 976; Fresh Fruits and Vegetables, Conservers of 
Staple Foods, F. B. 871. 



1917] THE HIGH COST OF LIVING 423 

THE HIGH COST OF LIVING. II. 

CHAELES J. BRAND 
Chief, Office of Markets and Rural Organization, United Stales Department of Agriculture 

The President of the United States recently summarized the hazards 
and uncertainties of farming in ail lands and at all times by saying 
that "the farmer is the servant of the seasons." This is absolutely true 
and should be borne in mind in considering the present food situation. 
This one sentence sums up, in large part, the conditions under which 
agricultural production is carried on. The farmer did not withhold 
his hand at the seeding time for the crop of 1916. He planted gener- 
ously, and in the case of most crops, an average greater than in recent 
years. 

The condition of high prices is not due to any failure on the part of 
American agriculture to attempt to provide for the peoples' wants 
Since a relatively normal production occurred, except in the case of a 
few crops, it is desirable that we come to some conclusion as to what has 
occasioned the shortage and the high prices. 

The first thought that occurs to most persons is that our exportation 
of foodstuffs has been too large. But the published statistics indicate 
that this is not a sufficient explanation. Meats are largely exported, 
but meat prices have risen relatively far less than other commodities. 
Only cereals, canned foods, meats and a relatively small number of other 
articles have been exported to any extent. We must look to a consid- 
erable extent to other factors than export for an explanation of the fact 
that we face a general shortage, whereas the shortage in production was 
confined to a few crops. Without ignoring increase of gold and credit, 
crop shortage, exports and inadequate car supply, I have come to the 
conclusion that domestic waste and over-consumption, due to high pur- 
chasing power on account of prosperous industrial conditions, have been 
the most potent factors in the existing situation. 

I will illustrate my point by a concrete case. 

It was well known as early as the first of August, 1916, that there was 
a shortage of supply in eggs. On that date the Department of Agricul- 
ture published the fact that the quantity stored was 24 per cent short 
compared with 1915. On November 1, the same conditions prevailed. 

1 Extracts from an address entitled "Consen-ation, Increased Production, and Improved 
Distribution of Foodstuffs," delivered before the Women's City Club Mass Meeting, March 
4, at Lyceum Theatre, New York City. Used with the permission of Mr. Brand. 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Prices ruled high, but the people bought eggs at the usual rate. The 
monthly reports on eggs in cold storage on December 1, 1916, and 
January 1, 1917, showed that the surplus was being consumed at a 
faster rate than the year before. Necessarily under such conditions 
prices went up. Some people have charged that owners of eggs held 
them back from the market. If they did, they performed a useful 
service, for egg prices in January and February would certainly have 
been very much higher if they had not. As a matter of fact on February 
1, our reports showed a shortage of 75 per cent as compared with the 
year before. If every consumer had resolved on November 1 to do his 
share of the economizing; if every housekeeper had bought nine eggs 
instead of twelve, the shortage being practically one-fourth, the short 
supply would no doubt have gone into consumption at reasonable figures. 

A similar instance happened in connection with onions. 

In passing I may say that eggs and onions are not exported products. 
We cannot blame the foreigner for having eaten our supplies. The 
American consumer has probably forced the high price levels by pur- 
chasing Uberally in spite of the dwindling stocks. 

The trouble has been that we were determined to have all we wanted 
whenever we wanted it because we had the money to buy. And tliis 
charge must be laid to the door particularly of the more prosperous ele- 
ment of the community. When the facts of a shortage become known, 
it is only the part of prudence for the consumer to study carefully and 
intelligently how to meet the situation and proceed upon a logical course. 
How much better economics it would be if, instead of forcing prices to 
an unreasonable height, we would moderate our usual requirements, 
avoiding the necessity of times of boycott during which we deny our- 
selves wholly for a time desirable food products. What we should have 
is the consistent limiting of purchases commensurate with production 
rather than the occasional and sporadic boycott. 

The Department of Agriculture pubhshes monthly fairly accurate 
reports of the stored supplies of eggs, butter, cheese, apples, and meats. 
It pubhshes estimates of the production of all crops each autumn. 
There is practically never a great shortage in any particular crop with- 
out some foreword of warning. These reports are furnished to the 
Department voluntaiily by the reporting firms, who have been quite 
generous in their cooperation, but it seems definitely desirable that 
these reports on foodstuffs which are so intimately connected with the 
public interests of the nation should not be left on a voluntary basis 



1917] THE HIGH COST OF LIVING 425 

that might at any time be ineffectual, but should be required periodically 
and if need be under oath as to their accuracy. The food supply of the 
people is of paramount importance and the Government should not be 
without power to command every necessary bit of information concern- 
ing it. 

The great majority of American families give too Uttle attention 
to the question of a normal food ration. Experts in home economics have 
estimated that we waste annually as much as $700,000,000 worth of 
foodstuff in the United States. This is about $7 a year for every man, 
woman, and child. 

It has been unpopular in America to be economical. Until we can 
popularize economy and prudent frugality, there is little hope of our 
meeting in effective fashion our present food problem, to say nothing 
of the acute problem that would be presented should we have a really 
small crop of food products generally throughout the United States. 

We must start a "Eat-\Vhat-We-Need-And-D on' t-Waste-Any thing" 
campaign and make it effective. It is not sufficient for any one section 
of the people to complain of high prices and demand improvement, 
for the only improvement that can come must be the result of millions 
of indi\'idual actions. There is undoubtedly enough food in the country 
for all of the people, but it must be properly husbanded and more 
imiformly distributed. Demand must be brought in Une with supply. 
I am especially insistent that the millions who are relatively comfortable 
in this country have no right in the selfish pursuits of their own satis- 
faction to impose undue hardships upon their less fortunate fellows, 
particularly in a world so utterly distraught as is the one in whic^ we 
live at the present time. In a very large sense I am my brother's keeper 
and I must order my living accordingly. So much for the problem as it 
exists, and for the most important of all of the possible remedies. 



426 



THE JOUHNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



O T3 O 

53 «) <j 

g a a. 

^ a 

D 

D in 

'-' 3 



T3 en OJ 
o a> c 



JJ ^ « 
P 



C 3 

^ a 



o a 



in 

s a 



-5 .a 



c 5 c ^> 






<u ^ 



^ a «•- 



.5 3 . 

■u tn " 

4J M 13 

tn o 



s -^ 

tn -^ 



3 a 



i ^a 

a 2 .2 



a ii 



OJ H 



& a 

05 3 1> 

g '-e 3 






a-s 



.a 1) 



S M 



H 



;2 :2 
5:2 rt 1^ 



00 vo 



li-> lO »0 lO lO "O lO 



c^ cj cd c^ c4 c^ cd 
CO \0 CN 00 <M 00 O 



o o o o o o o 

■4-J ■*-> 4-J -4^ -4-J -W -t-J 

\o ■^ o \o O O lO 






;S :2 



2 ^-^ 

S 3 Bi 
en H td 



Ci.^ 



a 




en 

3 


tn 


en 

a 


-73 




c3 


CI, 


o 



> 


-r) 


o 


O 




O 

a 




a 
-a 

G 


CX 


-o 


i^ 


a 


a 

tn 


3 


si 


Lh 


,J5 


^ 


a 












a 


^ 


«i 


Cj 


ui 



^ ^ 



> V ^ =^ 3 a 

frt Ci( r! rn *-< ^ ^^ 











a 


tn 


XI 


^ 




Oh 


.^ 


>, 


c 




c 


O 

c 


a 






a, 


1-1 

o 


Cfi 


3 




"o 


0) 


rt 


h 






n1 


a 




tn 


a 


a 


13 

a 




<u 
»-• 

3 


■n 


cii 


C/J 


IS 


CT 


o 






•^ .> a 



o g o a 



!^ -^. 



^ .^ (-< tn 



S C^ 



3 -2 fc! o 



3 -^ 
r 1 '^ 



o 




.3 




«i« 






<u 






_'c 


■a 


,^ 


-u 


n, 






u 





a 



m 



u 



o 



CL, 



pu 



1917] 



CHART FOR CANNING 



427 



6 






3 
(J 


O 




-a 
c 




J3 


U 


■i 


CX 


Lm 


tn 






n 


-o 


o 

2 


O 

c 

6 


3 

o 


-a 


to 






-5 
'o 


> 

o 

s 

1) 


M 






£: 






tn 


<j 




C 




in 




o 


rn 


a. 






en 




-a 

OJ 


Ji 


1-1 


'a 


o 






> 
o 


rl 


fcJO 

D 

o 


.£3 
>> 


O 




> 

o 

F3 


o 
o 


c 






>*i ^ u 



« 



Ph 



> 


(J 




D. 




o 

s 


a 
o 




o 














Xi 


OJ 




J2 


1> 


2 
"3 








5= 


o 


( ) 






M 








il 




s 




en 


1) 










c 


^ 


.s 


1) 


o 


O 






o 





•7«! ^ •- 



c 2 3 



o — 



>, 






rt 


O 


-i»! 


a 




O 
O 




1) 


u 








s 


o 


a 


rrt 






s 




t/J 


O 


11) 


tn 


M 


c 





d -a 
"3 ^ '3 

S o a, tn -M s 



tn en tn en 

X! XI J2 XI 



lo o lo o 



^ tn tn tn tn tn 

:2 jD jO ^ jO ^ 

"^ O ") O lO lO 

CN CN T-l 



tn tn tn 



c^ c^ c^ c4 



rt c3 cS etj rt :a 

O lO O lO o o 
O ro >0 rO r^ CM 



5 



O •^ CN ^H ^H 



o u3 a 



:73 rt r-f ^ 



§> 



as 



p5 



o 


_rt 


c 




k< 


^ 


ro 


4i 






lO 


« 


X! 






o 


4J 


Tl 






"rt 








« 




C/i 



c3 3 

& a- 



CJ ^ 



5 *^ ^ & 

'- 3 -a ^ 

'-' S G 

tn fl e 33 

rt 0) .3 i) 



o 


x: 

> 


3 

o 


o 
.S 

CJ 


in 

■A 


O 


tn 

>-• 
3 
O 

xi 






3 

3 

tn 
ii 

<u 


3 


XI 
in 


tn 

a 


aj 
o 

S 


in" 

.s 


aj 

o 

a 


x: 
1 


p 

CJ 


in 




3 


o 
o 

u 


cci 
a; 

a 

O 


-a 
C 

;=) 
tu 
X! 


0) 

o 

a 


0^; 




Pi 


^ 








w 


(In 






p^ 



> X5 rt 
O ^ X! 

S > ca 



.a "5 



c 


XI 


y 












a, 

CO 




:n 
3 




"""^ 


a. 


O 






o 










<:> 




CO 


,^ 


'a 




c: 


11 


a 




CJ 


CJ 


a 


m 


o 


XI 


-a 


rt 



M 



m 



u u 



C ps^ 



3 




O* 




C* 


Ft 


.2 


S 


hn 


>» 


3 


X3 








«) 


o 


U 

^ 


a. 





ZM 



XJ 






3 
o 


fl 


3 
O 

XI 




XI 


X3 


3 


3 




XJ 


.3" 


^ 


M 




3 
O 


l-l 




H 

n 


?l 


T) 


SJ 


_4) 


iz; 


to 


•a 
< 


0) 


X3 




Xi 




XI 


^ 


« 


■-< 




-y 


n1 


o 


;H 


if) 


M 










*f^ 


i!i 


Q 


g 


i )' 


HH 


-a 


w 


3 


Ut 




CJ 






3 
3 




XI 
3 

a, 


in 


X! 
1) 


x> 

i-i 










-i-> 










in 


ii 


a 


a 


a, 




n) 


o 


1-1 


X3 


1 


XI 


o 


*-»-< 






( 1 








rl 


in 


XI 


a 

3 


IH 


o 






O 


O 


-t 


H 


« 


U 


U^ 


(d 


* 


M 


H— 


++ 


U 



428 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

HOW AND WHY WE SHOULD SAVE FATS 

The United States is producing what in normal times would consti- 
tute an abundant supply of vegetable fats such as cotton seed oil, and 
peanut oil, and enough animal fats to meet our needs. Yet there is no 
question that a period of fat stringency is impending. An excessive use 
of fats for the manufacture of soap, explosives, and lubricants, and the 
lack of tonnage to transport the amount of fats and oils imported by the 
Allies from the tropics has brought about increasing consumption and 
decreasing supply. The stringency must be reheved in two ways. 

There must be an increased production of vegetable oils by the utili- 
zation to the fullest possible extent of the soy bean, cotton seed, and 
peanut for oil manufacture. There must be also every effort to in- 
crease the amount of dairy products. 

On the other hand fats must be conserved as far as is possible. This 
must involve a reduction, to some extent, of the fat consumption in 
the human diet. That a good many people are using too much fat 
(how much is eaten and how much wasted we do not know) is shown by 
the fact that in America we use more than 3| ounces of fat per person 
per day, while an average of 2 to 3 ounces is sufficient. 

We need to keep one thing clearly in mind. The fats of milk and 
eggs are in a class by themselves so far as fats serving for human foods 
are concerned. Milk or egg-yolk fats should always be supphed in the 
diet of children, for Ihey contain something which is indispensable to 
health and growth. This something is contained in much smaller 
amounts in the body fats of animals and is not present in fats or oils 
of vegetable origin. 

The needs of children for milk fats cannot be over-emphasized, and, 
owing to the peculiar demands of children for special physical properties 
in their foods, there are no articles other than milk, cream, butter, or egg 
yolks which can be used as sources of this dietary essential. For the adult 
there is no danger of any ill effects from reducing or stopping the con- 
sumption of butter. 

Besides reducing somewhat the use of fats generally, as food, we must 
check the waste of fats and use every particle. We can also help if we 
do not use butter for cooking, if we lessen the amount of frying, and 
if we use, for such frying and sauteing as we do, the vegetable oils rather 
than the high melting fats, since we have a much greater supply of oils 
than of solid fats. 



1917] JELLY MAKING 429 

POTATOES 

The United States Department of Agriculture estimates that the 
total potato yield this year will be more than 467,000,000 bushels. In 
1916 the crop was 285,000,000 bushels and in 1915, 360,000,000. That 
potatoes will be cheaper and may be used freely will be welcome news 
to the many housekeepers who have exercised all their ingenuity in 
devising substitutes for them. 

Since the early harvested potatoes can not be kept easily those now 
on the market are distinctly in the class of "perishables," that the Food 
Administration is asking us to use abundantly, to save products that 
may be kept or transported. Instead of devising schemes to use rice 
and macaroni instead of potato we may now see how far the potato 
may take the place of wheat products.^ "A small potato (3 or 4 ounces) 
supplies as much starch as a large blice of bread (1 ounce) but rather 
less protein. Potatoes eaten abundantly make it possible to get along 
with less bread. Potatoes can be substituted for about one-fourth of 
the wheat flour used in making ordinary bread and rolls." 



JELLY MAKING 

Much waste of sugar and spoilage of jellies can be avoided by using 
a simple alcohol test recommended by the Bureau of Chemistry, United 
States Department of Agriculture. To determine how much sugar 
should be used with each kind of juice put a spoonful of juice in a glass 
and add to it one spoonful of 95 per cent grain alcohol, mixed by shak- 
ing the glass gently. Pour slowly from the glass, noting how the pectin 
— the substance in fruits which makes them jell — is precipitated. If 
the pectin is precipitated as one lump a cup of sugar may be used for 
each cup of juice (many prefer not to use more than f or | of a cup) 
if in several lumps the proportion of sugar must be reduced to approxi- 
mately three-fourths the amount of the juice. If the pectin is not in 

^ Farmers Bulletin 871. Fresh Fruits and Vegetables as Conservers of other Staple 
Foods. 



430 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

lumps but is merely precipitated, the sugar should be one-half or less 
of the amount of the juice. If the juice shows no precipitation under 
this test, it is unsuitable for jelly making and m.ust be combined with 
apples or other juices rich in pectin. 

The fruit juice must not only contain pectin but be somewhat acid 
to make good jelly. 



FOOD ADMINISTRATION PLEDGE 

TO THE FOOD ADMINISTRATOR, 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I AM GLAD TO JOIN YOU IN THE SERVICE OF FOOD CONSERVA- 
TION FOR OUR NATION AND I HEREBY ACCEPT MEMBERSHIP IN THE 
UNITED STATES FOOD ADMINISTRATION, PLEDGING MYSELF TO 
CARRY OUT THE DIRECTIONS AND ADVICE OF THE FOOD ADMINIS- 
TRATOR IN THE CONDUCT OF MY HOUSEHOLD, IN SO FAR AS MY 
CIRCUMSTANCES PERMIT. 

Name 

Address 

Number in Household Do you employ a cook ? 

Occupation of Breadwinner 

Will you take part in authorized neighborhood movements 

for food conservation ? 



There are no fees or dues to be paid. The Food Administration wishes to have 
as members all of those actually handling food in the home. 

DIRECTIONS 

Mail your pledge card to the Food Administrator, Washington, D. C, and you will receive free 
your first instructions and a household tag to be hung in your window. 

Upon receipt of ten cents with your pledge card and a return addressed envelope, the official button 
of the Administration, and if desired, the shield insignia of the Food Administration will also be sent you. 



EDITORIAL 

Business as Usual. Probably no war-time phrase has been used 
more often than this, and with such conflicting emphasis. We have 
been urged over and over again to observe it, and as urgently begged to 
disregard it. Perhaps the apparent contradiction is after all only a 
difference in interpretation. Some read into the phrase a request for 
the accustomed amount of spending, a demand for the support of every 
industry, and even a plea for luxurious Hving. 

To others, it means that everyone is to maintain a sane and steadfast 
purpose; that he is to realize that "the very first duty of every intelligent 
and educated person is to keep his head, and consider how his labor can 
be made most effective;" that he is above all to do his own job. 

That job may be the giving up of one's usual task, and undertaking 
some new and dramatic work, but to most of us it means that we must 
do to the best of our ability the every-day work that we have always 
done, and learn to do it so effectively, and so well, and so swiftly, that 
if the additional opportunity comes, we can undertake the new work too. 

If we are not careful, we may yield to the temptation, always present 
at such times as this, to neglect the usual for the unusual, the every-day 
task for the one that seems greater and more alluring. 

In many of our cities, charity societies and other social agencies are 
feeling the pinch of retrenchment, because gifts are transferred from 
them to emergency organizations, when they are in greater need of 
support than ever, and when the new calls for money should be answered 
by greater generosity, not by transferring the gift from one channel to 
another. Children are leaving school, and young men and women hesi- 
tating to complete their college work, because of these other things that 
seem more important at the present time. 

We need to repeat the slogan "Business as usual," with this interpre- 
tation : Let us fulfill the new demands, but let this work be in addition 
to the every-day task that belongs to us, not instead of it. 



431 



432 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Household Waste and Public Waste. From time to time one 
meets with something like rebellion on the part of the housekeeper who 
is asked in a multitude of ways, by every newspaper and magazine and 
speaker, to "ehminate waste." It is not that she is unwilling to do her 
part, but that when she compares the amount she can save, by the most 
careful economy, with the public waste of which she hears constantly, 
she questions whether her efforts are worth while, after all. 

She hears rumors of carloads of vegetables dumped into the harbor; 
of wharves piled high with fruit and vegetables that through bad hand- 
ling must be thrown away; of the holding of food by speculators for a 
higher price, and its consequent spoihng; she is told of the waste in 
hotels and institutions, and even in army camps; and of the use of food 
grains for alcoholic drinks. 

She sometimes wonders whether her time is well spent in trying to 
divert from this river of waste the tiny stream from her own household 
that has been one of its thousands of tributaries. 

But we need to remember that public reforms follow, not precede, 
private convictions. If we "eliminate waste" in the household today 
we shall train our children — our boys as well as our girls — to such habits 
of care and efficiency that the next generation may automatically ''elimi- 
nate" public waste. This is our great hope, but we are not without 
immediate encouragement. 

In New York city the women themselves have gone to the wharves, 
have trimmed vegetables and have had all that could be saved sent to 
a central kitchen for canning and drying; the waste in camps is in the 
new, not the regular army, and will undoubtedly be controlled by the 
government as rapidly as possible; distilled liquors are no longer to be 
manufactured in this country, while in England the amount of grain 
used for fermented drinks has been cut down 75 per cent, and none is 
used for distilled liquors; the hotel men have met and agreed upon cer- 
tain economies; and the government through the Food Administration 
is taking drastic measures to prevent speculation. 

So we in the household and in the school will cheerfully "do our bit," 
and as we gain greater influence in municipal housekeeping we will en- 
deavor to carry over into the larger field the lessons we have learned, 
and the plans we have found effective. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Food and the Principles of Diekiics. By 

Robert Hutchison. New York: Wm. 

Wood and Company, 4th edition, 1917, 

pp. 617. $4.00. By mail of the Journal 

$4.20. 

This is a new edition of one of the best 
known and most comprehensive of our 
standard text-books in dietetics; one which, 
at the time of its first appearance (1900) was 
remarkable for the enormous amount of 
chemical, technological, and physiological 
literature which it covered most e.xcellently 
and up to date; which was and is, remark- 
able among text-books on dietetics, for the 
numerous citations of original investiga- 
tions with which its statements are sup- 
ported; which was and is remarkable for its 
clearness of style and for its practical ap- 
plications of scientific knowledge. Even up 
to the present day, it has steadily held its 
place as one of the score or perhaps dozen 
texts, with which the dietitian's library can- 
not dispense. 

In this nev/ edition, some 50 or 60 pages 
have been inserted at intervals, among the 
five hundred or so pages of the third edition. 
One new chapter is on "Some Dietetic. 
Cures and Systems," (10 pp.) and deals 
briefl}'' with vegetarian diet systems, purin- 
free diets. Dr. Hare's S3'stem, exclusive pro- 
tein diet (the Salisbury cure), zomotherapy, 
salt-free diet, soured milk treatments. 
About 20 pp. of additional matter dealing 
with medical dietaries have been included 
in chapter 28, under "Principles of Feeding 
in Disease." It will be observed that these 
30 pp. constitute half of all the new rnaterial. 

The topic "Vitamines" is treated in three 
paragraphs, and in a few scattered sentences 
here and there. To those who are collect- 
ing the opinions of authorities upon this 
much confused subject, the following sum- 



mary as to their occurrence may be of in- 
terest: "We know that they are only 
represented in extremely small quantity in 
ordinary food-stuffs, but that they are accu- 
mulated in relatively much greater amount 
in certain articles, such as the pericarp of 
rice, wheat, and other cereals, the brain, 
heart, and eggs of mammals and birds, and 
in yeasts. The anti-scorbutic vitamine 
seems to be especially abundant in fresh 
vegetables and in fruit juices," (p. 19.) 
Again (p. 95): "Professor Thompson has 
shown that the addition of a small amount 
of beef extract to the diet leads to an in- 
crease in weight both in men and animals, 
and to an increase in the retention of nitro- 
gen in the body. Whether these results are 
to be ascribed solely to an improvement in 
digestion and absorption, or whether the 
beef extract contains some substance (? a 
vitamine) which e.xercises a specific effect 
upon metabolism, is uncertain, but at aU 
events the experiments are highly interest- 
ing and important." P. 136: "It has been 
objected to margarine, that it may be defi- 
cient in vitamines, which are present in 
butter. To this it may be replied, that 
there is no proof that butter contains vitam- 
ines, and in any case, in a mixed diet, the 
matter is one of no importance." 

In the opinion of the re\iewer, the meager 
amount of additional material which has 
been inserted in the text in various places, 
does not at all serve to bring it adequately 
into touch with modern knowledge upon 
such topics as the physiology of digestion; 
diet for diabetics; the physiological effects 
of water-drinking in various amounts; 
recent studies in metabolism induced by 
experimental diets (e.g., with varying pro- 
portions of protein, wth different kinds of 
proteins or amino-acids, or of mineral salts, 

433 



434 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



or %vith the effects of inanition) ; the physio- 
logical effects of different iron compounds 
found in foods and drugs, the variations in 
acidity or alkalinity of ash of foods; the 
physiological effects of alcohol; the nature of 
appetite and hunger; or such practical points 
as the composition of modern commercial 
bread. It is true that much of the recent 
work which we so greatly miss has been 
done by Americans, and naturally might not 
attract the attention of an English dietitian 
to the same exte'nt, as in the case of a text- 
book published in this country. Yet it 
will be observed, that only a very small 
proportion of the references cited in the 
footnotes are dated much later than 1910; 
indeed, the greater number antedate 1900. 
Minna C. Denton. 

How To Cut Food Costs. By Lenna Frances 
CooFEE. Battle Creek, Michigan: The 
Good Health Publishing Company, 1917, 
pp. 128. 

The author's aim in writing this book is 
first, "to teach housewives and others 
charged with the task of supplying and 
preparing food, how they can best do this 
at the least money cost," and second, to 
explain what is meant by a "Balanced 
Ration" and how to provide it. The first 
chapter contains a simple and brief state- 
ment of the food requirements of the body 
together with a classification of the food- 
stuffs on the basis of their function in nutri- 
tion. In the following chapters the author 
takes up the relative value and money cost 
of these foods. There are tables giving the 
number of calories to be obtained for one 
cent from the cereals and breadstuffs, 
vegetables, fruits, meats and meat substi- 
tutes. These tables are based upon March, 
1917, prices, but no mention is made of the 
place where the food was purchased. They 
show the relative cheapness of cereals over 
other foods, of bulk cereals over package, 
of dried fruits as compared to fresh. These 
comparisons of cost are all made on the 
basis of calories, although in the discussion, 
emphasis is put on the fact that milk, eggs, 
and meat, contain valuable "muscle form- 



ing material" and that milk, whole cereals, 
and vegetables are valuable as "bone 
fortners." 

A table giving the calories contained in 
one pound of all the common food materials 
has been included in order that the house- 
wife may herself determine the number of 
calories which she purchases for one cent. 
With the fluctuations in prices from year to 
year and from season to season this suggests 
a means by which the housewife may check 
up the relative cost and nutritive value of 
various foods. There is also additional 
valuable material in the form of economical 
menus which were served to six people 
during the month of March, 1917, at a cost 
of twenty-three and one-fourth cents per 
capita per day, together with a large num- 
ber of low-cost recipes. The latter furnish 
suggestions for the substitution of milk, 
macaroni, and beans, for meat, and of corn- 
meal for wheat. 

The author, in her discussion of food 
requirements, has made only general state- 
ments regarding the quantities of food 
which should be used. More specific in- 
formation as to the desirable relative expen- 
ditures for milk, cereals, vegetables, and 
fruits, would have increased ;he value of 
the book greatly. There is also no mention 
made of the difference in the nutritive value 
of proteins from milk, meat, and eggs, and 
those from the cereals and legumes. In the 
light of Dr. McCoUum's results from feed- 
ing beans to white rats it would seem that 
the value of legumes may be somewhat 
overestimated. The book is written from 
a vegetarian point of \aew. 

The last two chapters contain a discussion 
of the rapid rise in the cost of food during 
the past two years, the various factors 
involved in the cost of foods, such as trans- 
portation, middlemen's profits, free delivery 
and waste, and ways in which some of these 
factors may be eliminated. 

While the book is written primarily for 
housewives, it contains much material of 
practical value to teachers. 

Elizabeth W. Miller, 

School of Education, University of Chicago. 



1917] BOOKS AND LITERATURE 435 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Dressmaking. By Jane Fales. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1917, pp. 508. $1.50. 

By mail of the Journal, $1.63. 
The Effective Small Home. By Lilian Bayliss Green. New York: Robert M. McBride and 

Company, 1917, pp. 194. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.58. 
The Family Purse. Boston: Seaver Rowland Press. $.25. (In form of envelopes for 

different disbursements.) 
Food Poisoning. By Edwin Oakes Jordan. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, cl917, 

pp. 115. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 
The Four Epochs of Woman's Life. By Anna M. Galbraith. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders 

Company, ed. 3, 1917, pp. 296. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.61. 
The Home Nurse's Handbook of Practical Nursing. By Charlotte A. Aikens. Philadelphia: 

W. B. Saunders Company, 1917, pp. 303. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.64. 
How to Avoid Infection. By Charles V. Chapin. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University 

Press, 1917, pp. 85. $.50. By mail of the Journal, $.55. (Harvard Health Talks.) 
Household Manufactures in the United States 1640-1860; a Study in Industrial History. By 

Rolla Milton Tryon. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, cl917, pp. 413. $2.00. 

By mail of the Journal, $2.10. 
Housing in Springfield, Illinois; A Study by the National Housing Association. By John 

Ihlder. New York: Russell Sage Foundation, cl914, pp. 24. $.15. 
Kitchenette Cookery. By Anna Merritt East. Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1917, 

pp. 112. $1.00. By mail of the Journal, $1.06. 
Meals for Five on $6.00 a Week. By Josephine L. Bessems. Elgin, 111. : Da\'id C. Cook Pub- 
lishing Company, 1916, pp. 28. $.25. 
Personal Hygiene and Physical Training for Women. By Anna M. Galbraith. Philadelphia: 

W. B. Saunders Company, ed. 2, 1916, pp. 393. $2.25. By mail of the Journal, $2.37. 
The Practical Cookbook. By Margaret Willett Howard. Boston: Ginn and Company, 

1917, pp. 152. $.72. By mail of the Journal, $.78. 
The Small Family Cookbook. By Mary Denson Pretlow. New York: Robert M. McBride 

and Company, cl915, pp. 216. $.85. By mail of the Journal, $.92. 
Vocational Mathematics for Girls. By William H. Dooley. New York: D. C. Heath and 

Company, cl917, pp. 369. $1.28. By mail of the Journal, $1.38. 
Women Workers and Society. By Annie Marion MacLean. Chicago: A. C. McClurg and 

Company, 1916, pp. 135. $.50. By mail of the Journal, $.54. 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

The following pamphlets are issued by Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 
Cornell Reading Course for the Farm Home: Household Accounts. By Edith Bradford, 

Lesson 110, November, 1916. 
Alilk: A Cheap Food. By Flora Rose, Lesson 3, January 1917. 
Planning the Home Kitchen. By Helen B. Young, Lesson 108, July, 1916. 
Food Series. Waste of Meat in the Home — Pt.2. By Susanah Usher, Lesson 109, Oct. 1916. 
Short Cuts for the Home Dietitian. By Miriam Birdseye, Lesson 112, Apr., 1917. 

The following pamphlets are issued by the Iowa State CoUege of Agiculture Ames, Iowa. 
Emergency Leaflets. April 1917. Household Conservation: no. 4, Food; no. 5, Textiles; no. 

6, Health; no. 7, Home Management; no. 3, Plan for Mobilizing Iowa's Food Producers; 

no. 17, Canning by Cold Pack Method; no. 19, Plan for Conducting a Country-wide 

Food Conservation Campaign. 
Leftover Foods. H. E. Circular, no. 2, 1917-18. 



436 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Suggestive Outline for Club Study. Home Economics Circulars: 1915-16 no. 1, Food; 
no. 3, the House; no. 4, American Industries; 1916-17: no. 2, Child; no. 6, Valuable 
Books and Bulletins on Home Economics. 

Short Course Class Notes: Third Year, 1916-17: no. 16, Dairy Products and Their Food 
Value; no. 15, Important Sources of Mineral Foods; Fourth Year, 1916-17: no. 25, 
Emergency Meals at Low Cost; no. 23, Suggestive Menus; no. 22, Three Dinners — Two 
Pounds of Meat; Fourth Year 1917-18: no. 20, Corn and its Uses. 

Issued by the Department of Home Economics, Florida State College for Women, Tal- 
lahassee, Fla.: 

Canning Meats and Vegetables in Steam Pressure Canner. Bulletin 13. May, 1917. 
Home Drying of Vegetables. By Sarah W. Partridge. Bulletin 14. May, 1917. 
Jellies, Preserves and Marmalades. Bulletin 8. January, 1917. 

Moderate Cost Menus and Receipts from Florida Food Materials. By Nan Henderson. Bul- 
letin No. 15. June, 1917. 

Issued by the Massachusetts Agricultural College Extension Service, Amherst, Mass.: 
Extension circulars: No. 37, Methods of Saving Fats; No. 38, Canning of Fruits and Vege- 
tables, Cold Pack Method; No. 39, Preparation Wastes; No. 40, Table Wastes; No. 41, 
Storage Wastes. 

Issued by the University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.: 
Feeding the Baby. By Louise Stanley, Ph.D. Extension Series 24, Bui. Vol. 18, No. 9. 
The Feeding of Children. By Hildegarde Kneeland. Extension Series 23, Bui. Vol. 18, No. 8. 

Issued by the Oregon Agricultural College Extension Service, Corvallis, Ore. 
Foods — Preparedness. By A. Grace Johnston. Emergency Circular, April, 1917. 
The Hen in Town. By C. C. Lamb. Emergency Circular, April, 1917. 
Home Canning. By Anna M. Turley. Bulletin 204. May 15, 1917. 

Issued by the Extension Service of the College of Agriculture, The University of Wis- 
consin, Madison, Wis.: 

Canning for Pleasure and Profit. By Elizabeth B. Kelley. Circular 68. January, 1917. 
How to Cook Soy Beans. Circular 79. May, 1917. 
Twelve Ways to Use Barley. Circular 80, June, 1917. 
What to Feed the Children. Circular 69. April, 1917. 

The following are issued by the publishers listed: 

The Canning and Preserving of Fruits, Jelly Making. By Bessie R. Murphy Home Economics 
Bulletin no. 8, May, 1917. Also no. 7, The Canning and Drying of Vegetables. 
Bureau of Farm Development, Chamber of Commerce, Memphis, Tenn. 

The Farm Fruit Garden. By H. O. Werner. North Dakota Agr. College, Agricultural Col- 
lege, N. D. March, 1917, Agricultural Bulletin no. 9. 

Food for the Family. By A. Grace Johnson. Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Ore. 
August, 1916, Extension Bulletin 3, no. 10. 

Nursing as a Vocation for Women. By Katherine M. Olmstead. Ext. Div. of Univ. Wis- 
consin, Madison, Wis. November, 1916. Vocational Guidance Series no. 1. $.10. 

Thrift Monograph. Pub. by N. E. A., Ann Arbor, Mich. January, 1917. pp. 87. $.25. 

Vitamines or Food Accessories. Food Dept., Agr. Expt. Station, Agr. College, N. D., vol. 
4, no. 12, April, 1917. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 437 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Contributions to the Bibliography are welcomed. Please send material to the Joxjrnal 

Foods and Cookery 

Changes in Fresh Beef During Cold Storage Above Freezing. R. Hoagland, C. N. Mc- 
Bryde, and W. C. Powick, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 433 (1917), pp. 100, figs. 2. 

Practical Milling Tests. E. F. Ladd, North Dakota Sta. Circ. 15 (1917), pp. 11, figs. 4. 

The Distribution of Chlorin in Cereals and Dry Legumes. Balland, Jour. Pharm. el 
Chivi. 7 ser., 15 (1917), no. 4, pp. 105-107. 

Report of the Dairy and Food Department [of Iowa]. W. B. Barney, Ann. Rpt. Dairy 
and Food Comr. Iowa, 30 (1916), pp. 72, figs. 12. 

Eighth Annual Report of the Board of Food and Drug Commissioners. Ann. Rpt. Bd. 
Food and Drug Comrs. R. I., 8 (1916), pp. 35. 

[Food and Drug Inspection.] E. F. Ladd and Alma K. Johnson, North Dakota Sta. 
Spec. Bid., 4 (1917), no. 10, pp. 243-258, fig. 1. 

Recipes for the Preparation of the Dasheen. U. S. Dept. Agr., Bur. Plant Indus. [Circ], 
1916, pp. 4. 

Electrical Cooking and Heating. Edna Groves, Jour. Electricity, 38 (1917), no. 4, pp. 
116-118, fig. 1. 

Misguided Appetite and the High Cost of Living. A. E. Perkins, Mo. Bui. Ohio Sta., 
1 (1916), no. 12, pp. 363-370, fig. 1. 

[Report of the] Nutrition Laboratory. F. 0. Benedict, Carnegie Inst. Washington Year 
Book 15 (1916), pp. 272-285. 

Planning of Meals. Lelia McGuire, Agr. Col. Ext. Bui. [Ohio State Univ.], 12 (1916-17), 
no. 3, pp. 16. 

Eggs and Their Value as Food. C. F. Langworthy, U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. 471 (1917), 
pp. 30, figs. 3. 

Flavoring Extracts, Their Character and Composition. J. P. Street, Mod. Hospital, 
9 (1917), no 1, pp. 15-17. 

Special Diets: How to Secure Variety. Cora McCabe Sargent, R.N., Amer. Jour. 
Nursitig, 17 (1917), no. 8, pp. 694-700. 

Oleomargarine — A Useful and Economical Substitute for Butter. J. P. Street, Mod. 
Hospital, 8 (1917), no. 3, pp. 195-198. 

The Possibilities of Roasts. May B. Van Arsdale and Day Monroe, Teachers College 
Rec, 18 (1917), no. 2, pp. 161-173. 

Physiology and Nutrition 

Studies in the Physiology of the Respiration. I, The Capacity of the Air Passages and 
the Percentage of Carbon Dioxid in the Alveolar Air During Rest and Exercise. R. G. Pearce, 
Amer. Jour. Physiol., 43 (1917), no. 1, pp. 73-86, fig. 1. 

[Report on] Nutrition. T. B. Osborne and L. B. Mendel, Carnegie Inst. Washington 
Year Book 15 (1916), pp. 365-372. 

The Nutritional Value of the Banana. V. C. Myers and A. R. Rose, Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assoc, 68 (1917), no. 14, pp. 1022-1024. 

The Vitamin Content of Brewers' Yeast. A. Seidell, Jour. Biol. Chem., 29 (1917), no. 
2, pp. 145-154, figs. 4. 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

Lectures on Nutrition Delivered under the Auspices of the Washington Academy of 
Sciences, Washington, D. C, 1916. Jour. Wash. Acad. Scl, 6 (1916), nos. 10, pp. 269-280; 
11, pp. 337-357, fig. 1; 12, 387-396; 13, 431-446; 16, 575-595. Contains the following: 
The Biochemical Analysis of Nutrition, by C. L. Alsberg; The Basal Energy Requirement of 
Man, by E. F. DuBois; Food Economics, by G. Lusk; Studies on the Mineral Elements in 
Animal Nutrition, by E. B. Forbes; and the Importance of Vitamins in Relation to Nutri- 
tion in Health and Disease, by C. Voegtiin. 

Studies in Pellagra. Pub. Health Sen. U. S., Hyg. Lab. Bui. 106 (1917), pp. 102, pis. 7. 
I. Tissue Alteration in Malnutrition and Pellagra, by J. Sundwell (pp. 5-73, pis. 7). II, 
Cultivation Experiments with the Blood and Spinal Fluid of Pellagrins, by E. Francis (pp. 
75-80). Ill, Further Attempts to Transmit Pellagra to Monkeys, by E. Francis (pp. 
81-130). 

Further Experience with Homogenized Olive Oil Mixtures. M. Ladd. Arch. Ped., 33 
(1916), no. 7, pp. 501-512. 

Nitrogen Metabolism in Pregnancy. K. M. Wilson, Bid. Johns Hopkins Hosp., 27 
(1916) p. 121. 

The Basal Metabolism in Obesity and Its Significance. (Editorial.) Jour. Amer. Med. 
Assn., 67 (1916), no. 4, p. 288. 

Some Early Symptoms Suggesting Protein Sensitization in Infancy, B. R. Hoobler, 
Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 12 (1916), no. 2, pp. 129-135. 

A Study of the Heredity of Pellagra in Spartanburg County, South Carolina. Elizabeth 
B. Muncey, Arch. Int. Med., 18 (1916), no. 1, pp. 32-75. 

The Food Consumption of Adolescent Boys. (Editorial.) Jour. Amer. Med. Assji. 67 
(1916), no. 11, pp. 814, 815. 

The Hereditary Factor in Pellagra. C. B. Davenport. Arch. Int. Med., 18 (1916), no. 
1, pp. 4-32. 

A Discussion of Acidosis with Special Reference to that Occurring in the Diseases of Child- 
hood . (Report of New York Academy of Medicine, Section in Pediatrics.) Arch. Ped., 
33 (1916), no. 2, pp. 124-140. 

Infantile Scurvy. Therapeutic Value of Yeast and of Wheat Embryo. A. F. Hess, 
Amer. Jour. Disease Children, 13 (1917), no. 1, p. 98. 

The Hospital Dietary. E. P. Joslin, Modern Hosp., 8 (1917), no. 1, pp. 57-60. 

Report of Dietary Study of St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H. F. C. Gephart, Boston 
Med. and Surg. Jour., 176 (1917), no. 1, pp. 17-21. 

The Present Significance of the Amino Acids in Physiology and Pathology. D. D. Van 
Slyke, Arch. Int. Med., 19 (1917), no. 1, pp. 56-78. 

Economics 

Institutional Economics for War Time. Mod. Hospital, 9 (1917), no. 1, pp. 20-22. 

The Service Army — Food Economy and the Elementary School. Ernest B. Kent, Indus. 
Arts. Mag., 6 (1917), no. 7, pp. 281-282. 

E.x'periments Comparing the Cost of Meals as Purchased and as Eaten. May B. Van 
Arsdale and Day Monroe, Teachers, College Rec, 18 (1917), no. 1, pp. 38-50. 

The A. B. C. of Food Buying. Lenna F. Cooper, Good Health, 52 (1917), no. 7. 

Education in Economy [of Foods]. C. A. Spooler, Pomona, Cal.: Author, 1917, pp. 
248, pis. 22. 

A Summary of the Market Situation in Boston. P. T. Cherington et al., Boston: Print- 
ing Department, 1916, pp. 175, figs. 19. 

The Conservation of Food. J. A. Wesener and G. Teller, Mod. Hospital, 9 (1917), no. 
1, pp. 60, 61. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



American Home Economics Associa- 
tion Meeting. There were about 300 in 
attendance at the meeting of the A. H. E. A. 
held in Portland, Oregon, in connection 
with the N. E. A., July 10. Many of these 
were teachers from California, Washington, 
Oregon, and other adjoining states. Miss 
MacKay, the president of the Association, 
presided. 

As many of the papers as possible will be 
printed in the Journal, in order that all the 
members of the Association may share in the 
benefit of the meeting. 

After the meeting many visited the 
Oregon Agricultural College and had several 
conferences there. 

A Western Home Economics Association 
was formed, consisting of eleven states west 
of the Rocky Mountains, British Columbia, 
and Alaska. An Oregon branch was also 
formed. The list of the officers follows. 

Officers of the Western Home Economics 
Association 

President, Mrs. Ellen P. Dabney, Super- 
visor of Home Economics, Seattle Public 
Schools. 

Vice-President, Miss Ellen M. Bartlett, 
Superv-isor of Home Economics, San Fran- 
cisco Public Schools. 

Treasurer, Miss Demmon, Supervisor of 
Home Economics, Butte, Montana. 

Secretary, Miss Ava B. Milam, Professor 
of Domestic Science, Oregon Agricultural 
College, Cor\-allis, Oregon. 

Officers of the Oregofi Branch 

President, Miss Ava B. Milam, Professor 
of Domestic Science, Oregon Agricultural 
College, Corvallis, Oregon. 

Vice-President, Miss Lucy Crawford, In- 
structor Girl's School of Trades, Portland, 
Oregon. 

Secretary, Miss Edna Groves, Super\dsor 
of Domestic Science, Portland Public Schools. 



The Bowling Green Neighborhood As- 
sociation, New York City, under the auspices 
of the Bureau of Welfare for School Children 
of the .'\. I. C. P., expects to take possession 
of a new building about the first of Sep- 
tember. On the second floor will be located 
the offices, the waiting room, and three chil- 
dren's clinics, — general, nutrition, and dental. 
E.xhibition cases will be placed in the wait- 
ing room in which will be shown food and 
other exhibits. One section of the nutrition 
clinic will be fitted up as a demonstration 
kitchen. Suggestions are desired with 
reference to the equipment of this clinic, 
particularly as to the type of utensils that 
have been found to serve best for such a 
purpose. 

It is planned to keep the kitchen outfit 
very simple including in it such articles as 
would serve in the kitchens of the mothers 
coming to it. 

University of Chicago. A lecture on Ida 
Noyes Hall, the new Women's Building, 
was given in July by Elizabeth E. Langley, 
Instructor in Manual Training. The gen- 
eral topic was the Architecture and Furnish- 
ings of a Modem College Home for Women. 

In a series of public lectures on War 
Problems, Dr. Graham Taylor, president of 
the Chicago School of Civics and Philan- 
thropy, spoke on Community Standards, 
and Mrs. Catherine M. Briggs, general 
superintendent of the United Charities of 
Chicago, discussed the question of Volun. 
teer Service in Conserving the Home During 
War. 

The Home Economics Department at 
Purdue University, in cooperation with 
the Department of Agricultural Extension, 
completed its second Food Conservation 
Short Course in July. The first was held 
June 18 to 23 and was arranged to give in- 
struction to women wishing to train as 

439 



440 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



Emergency Food Workers. There were 
seventy in attendance including teachers, 
girls club supervisors, farmers institute 
workers, and other women who had had pre- 
vious training in home economics. The pro- 
gram consisted of laboratory work in can- 
ning, and lectures on food conservation sub- 
jects. Mr. FarreU of the U. S. Department 
of Agriculture, was present and gave demon- 
strations on canning and drying of fruits and 
vegetables. 

On July 9 the second week's course opened 
and this was arranged for the housekeepers 
who wished to know more about food con- 
servation. The program consisted of dem- 
onstrations on canning and drying and on 
"war foods." Talks and round tables gave 
opportunity to discuss many problems 
along the lines of food substitution, war time 
menus, war time budgets, and similar sub- 
jects. Two hundred women attended this 
course. 



of the Woman's Commi!;ce, Secretary 
Houston has assigned Miss Helen W. At- 
water of the Office of Home Economics to 
cooperate with Mrs. McCormick's depart- 
ment, and she now divides her time be- 
tween the two offices, serving as Executive 
Chairman of the Food Production and 
Home Economics Department of the Woman's 
Committee. 

This department like most of the others 
of the Woman's Committee, is organized 
by states with a state chairman in charge, 
and local representatives working under 
her. It is in close touch with the Coopera- 
tive Extension work of the U. S. Dept. 
of Agriculture and the State Agricultural 
Colleges of the various states and also with 
the Food Administration. As its name 
implies, it expects to aid in the work of 
women in food conservation and in the 
other feature^ of household economy which 
circumstances may render important. 



Notes. At Winthrop College, Rock Hill, 
S. C, special classes were arranged for Club 
Women, July 9-21. Home economics and 
agriculture were among the subjects offered. 

Beginning in 1917-18 all young women 
candidates for an academic degree in the 
Louisiana State University will be required 
to take two one-term courses in home 
economics. 

Miss Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of 
Simmons College, has been made a member 
of the State Board of Education of Massachu- 
setts. 

The Woman's Conmiittee of the Council 
of National Defense has recently organized 
a Department of Food Production and 
Home Economics under the chairmanship 
of Mrs. Stanley McCormick. To secure 
harmonious working between the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture and this branch 



Miss Grace Schermerhorn has been ap- 
pointed Director of Cooking in the New 
York City public schools to succeed the 
late Mrs. Williams. Miss Schermerhorn 
has been for the past year Supervisor of 
Household Arts in the public schools. Long 
Beach, Cal.; for three years she was director 
of Practice Teaching in Household Arts 
at Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. She 
is a graduate of Teachers College. 

Miss Veta Franklin of Bellingham, Wash- 
ington, is to succeed Miss Schermerhorn 
at Long Beach. 

The Fifty-fifth meeting of the Americaix 
Chemical Society will be held in Boston, 
Massachusetts, September 11-13. The Di- 
vision of Biological Chemistry will hold its 
sessions on V/ednesday and Thursday, and 
on Wednesday there will be a special pro- 
gram devoted to enzymes and their behav- 
ior. The headquarters of the Society will be at 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1917 No. 10 

TRAINING WOMEN TO EARN— A NATIONAL MOVEMENT^ 

ALVIN E. DODD 
Secretary National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education 

We all know that in Europe today, women are taking the place of 
men at the laboring oar of industry in many a factory and in many a 
shop, because the men are called to war. How soon a similar situation 
will be upon us no one can this day tell. But this we do know, that if 
war does come upon us, the rate at which the women will enter the occu- 
pations and industries in this country will be very greatly increased 
over the rate at which they have been entering industry during the past 
thirty years of peace. 

The United States Census of 1910 shows steady increases in the 
number of women wage-earners and it shows that their work is not 
incidental as is commonly assumed. In 1880, 15 per cent of our girls 
and women were at work; in 1890, 17 per cent; in 1900, 19 per cent; 
and in 1910, 23 per cent. In the present year of 1916, it is without 
doubt true that one-fourth of the girls and women over 10 years of age 
are gainfully employed. The census further indicates that the length 
of time during which women remain in industry is not so brief as 
is commonly assumed. No one is surprised to learn that two million 
girls between 14 and 20 are at work, but we seldom hear of the million 
and more women past 45 who are earning their living, or of the four 
million and more in the prime of Ufe who join hands with the girls' 
brigade on one side and, with the grandmothers' brigade on the other. 

1 Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, N. Y., 1916. 

441 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

In the last thirty years, the number of wcmen in commercial and 
business occupations has grown from 228,421 to 1,202,352 or almost 
fivefold. But the fact also remains that from 80 to 90 per cent of all 
girls and women are at some time in their lives homemakers, and that 
one girl or woman in e\'ery 2.8 is a wage earner points to the conclusion 
that any profitable scheme of education devised for girls must have these 
two ultimate aims in view, i.e., the making of homemakers and the 
making of wage-earners. 

In addition to these two caUings, both of which may be safely antici- 
pated in the life of the average girl or woman, there is the responsibility 
of citizenship, proper group relations for which every girl and woman 
should have preparation. 

Until these needs are fully met, and perhaps even then, provision must 
be made for those women who are already homemakers and desire to 
increase their present home efficiency, for those who are wage-earners 
and eager to enlarge their fields of usefulness, and for those who desire 
to know better their social relationships and duties. 

The National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education is 
primarily interested in furthering opportunities for vocational training 
for women who are entering the occupations, but at the same time it 
recognizes that every girl should have preparation for the varied duties 
of the home as a legitimate and integral part of her education ; that this 
should be offered throughout the entire school course, both in elementary 
and in high schools; and that it should be considered a necessary part 
of a girl's general preparation for life, no matter what her particular 
calling might be. 

The American Home Economics Association is primarily interested in 
furthering education for homemaking, but recognizes at the same time 
that every girl needs some special occupational skill beyond her general 
training for homemaking. 

It is only by such skilled activities that a girl can worthily employ 
the time from leaving school until marriage. Only by worthy use of 
the time between school and marriage is a young woman kept in the un- 
selfish and efficient habits w^hich will make her a devoted and intelligent 
homemaker. Only by such skilled activities can a married woman with- 
out children give her powers full exercise. Only by such reserve skill 
can a married woman find financial security in reverses of widowhood, 
desertion, incapacity or incapability of her husband. By the discipline 
of such skilled service before marriage can the well-to-do woman be best 



1917] TRAINING WOMEN TO EARN 443 

prepared to serve wisely as a civic or club worker in the second leisure of 
middle age. 

Every community today should ojfer extension courses in practical arts 
to its womeii. There can and should be cooperation between the National 
Society and the American Home Economics Association in the estab- 
lishment of evening courses other than trade extension work. Such 
courses can provide a great opportunity to the schools to stand back of 
the home and to gradually raise home standards among working people. 
Such instruction to be effective must be clear cut and specific and brought 
to bear directly on the actual experience of the student, comparable to 
the definite results expected and gained in the specific trade courses al- 
ready developed in a number of large cities. This involves the setting 
up of definite administrative influences such as: (a) A care'ul selection 
of teachers on the basis of their practical knowledge of the subject to be 
taught; (b) the limiting of classes to groups of not more than fifteen; 
(c) the development of a series of short courses which admit of great 
variation and which can be adapted to meet the specific needs. 

Such studies and the resulting pronouncements should be under- 
taken by a joint committee of the two associations. 

How to determine what courses are most needed leads to the second 
possibility for cooperation between the two groups represented by our 
Societies. There are being made an increasing number of vocational 
surveys. These surveys are based on the idea that a gathering of facts 
about the schools of any community is necessary for an intelligent plan 
which will make more effective the educational work being done in that 
community. Pertinent facts about local industries and local condi- 
tions are absolutely necessary as a basis for any intelligent vocational 
program To meet the special needs of the community, a program 
must be based on knowledge of these facts. 

A course in home economics which wili meet the needs of a city girl 
will differ from that which will meet the needs of the country girl. Home 
economics courses for a group of girls who have spent their day in "dipping 
chocolates" should differ from a course given to a group of high grade 
department store employees. 

In both the Richmond and Minneapolis Surveys, made by the National 
Society, studies of the home worker, both paid and unpaid, were 
made. In Minneapolis this part of the Surv^ey was under the charge 
of a committee of women representing the various interests and points 
of view, such as the public schools, visiting nurses committees, women's 



444 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

clubs. A specialist in home economics from the University Agricultural 
Extension Division had charge of the field work and made the report 
which was submitted. In this work she was assisted by students of the 
University Home Economics Department and by others including some 
of the teachers in home economics in the public schools who were given 
permission to spend time in this study for the valuable information and 
understanding which such experience would bring. The chapter re- 
lating to this study in the Report of the Minneapolis Survey, is one of 
the most valuable in the entire survey, and is commended to home 
economics workers generally for its very definite bearing on the devel- 
opment of home economics and industrial courses for women. 

We need to know a great deal more about women in industry than we 
do now. The number of women in industry is often quoted and the 
statement is frequently made that the working life of the women in 
industry is from three to five years. There are reasons to believe that 
the average is very much higher than this. We have no means of 
knowing from the United States Census figures whether the women who 
enter industry each year are coming in new and for the first time or 
whether they are returning for the second, third, or fourth time. We 
need to know more of how long these women have been in industry, 
during each period of their service, and whether a local survey would 
bring out many valuable facts along this line. Here is opportunity for 
cooperation in the * appointment of a joint committee to determine 
what facts of this sort are needed and how they may be gathered. 

The industrial conditions under which many work, and their relation to 
home economics, need to be carefully studied. Such studies would have 
important bearing on the content of home economics courses. Such 
information may be expected to make for a definiteness of aim and for 
standards of accomplishments which are greatly needed. 

The Home Economics Association may be the means, not only of 
gathering much information, but may also be the means of carrying it 
into quarters where it is most needed. This may possibly be done: 
(a) through the Home Economics Clubs affliated with the American 
Home Economics Association; (b) by devoting more space in the Home 
Economics Journal to a presentation of some of these industrial courses 
in their bearing on home economics. 

The National Society in its past conventions has given much consid- 
eration to the question of what home economics training should be 
given as a part of vocational courses. Vocational education is develop- 



1917] TRAINING WOMEN TO EARN 445 

ing rapidly. With the passage of the Smith-Hughes BiU, the American 
Home Economics Association might well devote one section meeting at 
its convention to a consideration of vocational education and its bearing 
on home economics training. 

In this whole question of cooperation between these associations there 
is none so important and so full of possibilities for immediate results 
as effective work on the problem of how to secure adequately trained 
teachers and adequate state supervisors of home economics. A careful 
study and report of the certification and training of teachers and super- 
visors of home economics somewhat after the plan of a similar state- 
ment prepared by the National Society on vocational teachers, might be 
of very great influence in impressing the school administrators of the 
country mth the training and experience and qualities which it is neces- 
sary to look for and to have if effective instructors are to be secured. In 
other words, the setting up of standards for teachers through an ofiScial 
pronouncement of the American Home Economics Association might 
be secured. 

The putting into operation of the Smith-Lever Bill has brought many 
difi&culties and as many of you well know there is serious danger of the 
funds being used in some places in ways which cannot possibly bring 
adequate return. It is unfortunate that the Smith-Lever Bill did not 
include stipulations which would safeguard to a somewhat greater extent 
both the standards of the work to be done and the expenditure of these 
public funds. 

The Smith-Hughes Bill is a distinct advance in this respect, in that 
it not only very definitely stipulates the purposes for which money 
may be spent but it also makes the payment of national aid con- 
tingent upon the work done meeting the approval of the government 
authorities. 

The Commission on Federal Aid to Vocational Education which 
drafted and recommended the Smith-Hughes Bill had this to say: 

The problem of home economics training for the great mass of girls who 
spend their early years as wage-earners in stores, shops, and factories, is also 
one for serious consideration and investigation and one that has as yet hardly 
been touched although it is perhaps more important and far-reaching than 
any other. Especially needed are such studies as those relating to the pur- 
chase and care of clothing, the conservation of health and the maintenance of 
efficiency through proper food and exercise, the planning of personal and house- 
hold budgets, the proper sanitation and ventilation of home and workroom 



446 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

surroundings. Such studies as these and many others will be greatly needed in 
the development of part-time education for girls who are already at work and 
would also be highly valuable in developing courses in home economics for 
young housekeepers who have not had the opportunity for such training in 
our schools. 

The American Home Economics Association has a Committee on Legis- 
lation. Some years ago the National Society adopted a declaration of 
principles and policies which should underlie any system of vocational 
education. The legislation which has been passed in all the States so 
far and legislation which has been brought before the Federal Govern- 
ment has been in large part based on these principles and policies. A 
similar statement on legislation dealing with home economics might well 
be undertaken by the Home Economics Association through its Com- 
mittee on Legislation, Such legislation standards would relate very 
closely to vocational education legislation, and might well be the efforts 
of a joint committee. 

In America there needs to be learned a lesson of effectiveness and one 
of the first steps in the learning of the lesson is to learn that we need to 
learn it. Both of our associations have taken the first step. The at- 
tendance at the annual conventions of each organization by a number of 
delegates representing the other association, the service on the Boards of 
Control of members of the other association and the participation in the 
programs have shown the possibilities of what we may learn and do 
together in advancing the cause of human effectiveness. 

These are matters of value to the nation at large. They mean the 
enhancement of our greatest national resource, our men and our women. 
From this enhancement naturally arises the development of our national 
power and influence. Hence is our cause true patriotism. From it 
comes the best of preparedness, both for peace and war. As Secretary 
of Commerce Redfield stated, recently: "Trained producers and trained 
users are both safe and sane citizens, for the training to do involves the 
training to think, and the plea for preparedness and for 'safety first' is a 
call for education which enhances both the worker and the home." 



1917] MEDIUM PRICED LINENS 447 

MEDIUM PRICED LINENS FOR INSTITUTION AND HOME' 

MARY SCHENCK WOOLMAN 
Specialist in Vocational Education, Boston, Massachusetts 

It is not always easy for the general shopper to obtain full informa- 
tion on fabrics from going to the stores. Walking through the depart- 
ments and looking casually about avails Httle, and the textile expert of 
the store is not easily procured, for his time is valuable. 

The writer has been making a study for the Retail Trade Board of the 
Boston Chamber of Commerce on the way women are abusing the privi- 
leges given to them by the department and specialty stores, especially 
in the wrong use of the charge account, and in the returning, for in- 
sufl5cient reasons, goods taken out on approval, called the "return goods 
evil." Therefore, she has had entry into eighteen stores for special 
investigation and included with her other work, a study of linens as 
affected by the war. The plan of the work was the following: 

To see, through the eyes of the department buyers, available, repre- 
sentative, medium priced linen towels and tablecloths which are recom- 
mended for institutions and homes; to know from what countries the 
most satisfactory Unen is imported, and why it is considered good; to 
see grades of linen apt to be adulterated or weak; to know the lowest 
prices for really good wearing linen (this was for regular prices and 
not for short stock on the bargain counter) ; to make physical and chemi- 
cal investigations of the linen chosen and purchased for illustration, 
that statements could be verified and information increased. 

It is more difficult to wisely choose medium priced linen than the 
finer and more expensive grades, for substitutions for strong fiber and 
various finishes may be used to lower the price while maintaining the 
appearance. Shoppers for institutions as well as for the home are often 
lacking in ability to judge, and consequently buy towels and table linen 
which will not give satisfactory wear. Without training, the only safe 
procedure for them is to keep strictly to reHable firms rather than to be 
attracted by what seems to be better values at lower prices elsewhere. 
Reputable firms in this country are bu^dng from reliable firms in Europe, 
and the heads of linen departments are very willing to tell the inquiring 
shopper the condition of the linens on their counters. 

^Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Ithaca, N. Y., 1916. 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

We depend principally upon a few European countries for our 
stock of medium-priced linens. On account of the war the usual 
supply has almost ceased. Once in a while a consignment will come 
through unexpectedly. The former stock of Hnen is naturally decreas- 
ing, and the prices for it are rising steadily. Linen buyers say that as 
soon as the present goods are sold they will be unable to fill some orders 
and the stock on hand will be much higher in price. For illustration, 
the small, fine, Irish fringed napkins (tea napkins), usually sold for 
$4.50 per dozen, were, shortly after the beginning of the war, $6 a 
dozen, if they were found at all. There is now no hope of importing 
them, and the price for those that remain will be at least $7.50 a dozen. 

One result of this war shortage, for we must have household towels 
and table-cloths, is the use of cotton to take the place of linen. We are 
a cotton-growing country and produce flax for seed rather than for 
fiber. Consequently, we are increasing the manufacture of cotton 
towels and table-cloths although some towels and crash are being 
manufactured from our own flax, but not sufficient for the demand. 

The question for us to decide, while linen can still be procured, is 
whether cotton toweling and table-cloths can take the place satisfac- 
torily of the linen ones. Does the lower price of cotton offset the 
values of the higher priced linen? Can cotton be made as valuable for 
household purposes as linen? Let us compare the qualities of the 
two. 

Cotton fiber is very short. It can be twisted and made strong, but 
the little fibers will protrude from the yarn or woven cloth. The fiber 
is full of oil and easily catches dust. Consequently, after constant 
use for a short time toweling made from cotton becomes grey and dull 
looking, requiring constant boiling to keep it sanitary. Cotton dries 
more slowly than linen, and as a result several towels are needed where 
two linen ones would serve. 

When cotton tea-toweling is first used it seems almost as satisfactory 
as linen, for it is finished with a smooth, glistening surface; but this passes 
away in the laundry and the short fibers come off in specks and fluff 
and cHng to the china or glass. 

Cotton towels are less than one-half the price of linen at normal 
times. It is true that cotton toweling will sometimes wear longer than 
toweling made of poor flax, but it never will have as good qualities for 
housekeeping use. 



1917] MEDIUM PRICED LINENS 449 

Flax from the combing or hackling processes yields fibers of two 
lengths — one long and smooth, called "line" (the best linen is made 
from this), and the other short and rough, called "tow." Toweling 
made chiefly of the line is the best, but medium priced towels are apt to 
have some tow in them, in the filling threads at least. 

A reliable small linen towel would not cost less than 25 cents at nor- 
mal times, while a cotton towel of the same size would run from 8 to 
15 cents. 

Linen is undoubtedly a more sanitary material for constant house- 
hold use and worth the added price on account of its valuable properties. 

Ireland, Scotland, and Germany are the countries we rely upon for 
our good medium-priced linens. For a given price there is little dif- 
ference between them in the quaHty of the output. We also import 
fine goods from them, but Austria, Belgium, and France send in general 
only their finest Hnens to America. 

The present study was on the towels and table Hnens of Ireland, 
Scotland, and Germany. Ireland uses Belgian yam largely for its 
manufacture, though still continuing some growth of flax. At present 
cotton is being used there, as Belgian yam cannot be procured. The 
Belgian yarn is noted for its fineness and strength, the River Lys being 
especially good for the retting of the flax whereby the fiber is released 
from the stalk. The extreme care which had been given to the growth, 
the well worked out rotation of crops, the close planting, and the way 
the women and children walk through the fields, often with bare feet, 
at the time of the springing of the flax to remove the weeds without 
bruising the tender shoots, tend to make the crop fine and the stalks 
straight and strong without branching. 

Belgium produces good line, fitted for the manufacture of the finest 
toweling and table linen. The quality of Irish toweling and table linen 
is influenced by the use of the Belgian fiber or yarn. If you put your 
hand on an Irish towel and then on a Scotch one of the same price, 
there seems to be less body in the former, but the strength is about the 
same. The Scotch, in general, use the Belgian yarns less than do the 
Irish. 

The better table Unen in Ireland is still hand woven. There are 
many cottages in or near Belfast where hand looms are used in weaving 
the higher priced damasks. The medium priced cloths are woven by 
power looms. 



450 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

Germany has obtained much of its flax from Russia, a? id the latter 
country produces strong, medium grade flax. Germany gives us an 
extremely good product, but one must have a care in selecting German 
medium priced linen, for some firms are anxious to get a market and 
therefore reproduce Irish, Scotch, and French table linen and towels at 
a lower price but not always quite so good. Germany produces attrac- 
tive colored linens, but care is needed in the laundering or they will 
fade, for flax does not hold dye well without strong mordants. 

Many housekeepers prefer to buy the German unbleached table 
cloths and bleach them for themselves. There is economy in this, for 
the chemical bleaching, used almost exclusively for the medium grades, 
weakens the fiber. An institution cannot always do this, however, for 
it takes too much grass to bleach out large amounts of Hnen. The 
Battle Creek Sanitarium, for example, has weekly from its baths alone 
1 1 ,000 towels and huge numbers of table clothes and towels from dining 
rooms, bed rooms, and operating rooms. It would be hardly practical 
for a large institution to buy unbleached linen and bleach it out-of- 
doors unless it had large grass spaces. 

Linen has always some sizing in it, for the yarn would become rough 
in the weaving if it were not sized. The difficulty comes when sizing is 
used to cover up imperfections, coarse weaving, or the use of cotton or 
tow. Good linen yarn is round and made of well twisted line. If the 
yarn is loosely twisted and flat, it will not wear so well. Tow is not so 
strong or smooth as the line. 

Beetling is the usual process of manufacture in finishing linens. Heavy 
pressure by beating with hammers is thus brought to bear on the woven 
goods, and a glistening effect is the result. In good Hnen this quality is 
inherent, and, after washing, can be restored by pressure with heated 
irons. By having much sizing on goods made of tow or cotton, followed 
by beetling, the gloss is gained temporarily. Beetling flattens good yarn 
slightly. The condition to avoid is poorly spun, flat, rather thin yarn, 
heavily sized, the cloth loosely woven and light in weight, sized and 
beetled, so that it looks substantial and glistening. When it is laundered 
the dressing will gradually pass away, leaving the coarse, open mesh, 
which will not wear well. 

The yarn in a good piece of linen wil] be even in strength. When 
some threads are strong and other threads weak the cloth will not wear 
satisfactorily. 



1917] FOOD FACTS BUREAU OF BOSTON 451 

The feel of good linen is smooth, cool, leathery, yet soft. The light 
from it is clear, but not too brilHant. It has weight as lifted in the 
hand, and is judged by its weight. When linen is stiff and creases easily 
it probably contains a good deal of sizing. If the finger nail is pressed 
against the cloth the sizing can be detected. Table cloths below $1.25 a 
yard at normal times are not apt to be satisfactory in wear. A good 
double damask may be more expensive than the single, for the threads 
are double at least in the filling, but it is a more satisfactory invest- 
ment. The pattern is more distinct on the wrong side, hence both 
sides of the cloth can be used. The pattern is in the warp threads and 
they look Ught against the background of filHng on the right side. A 
close all-over pattern launders better than bands and plain twill 
alternating. 



THE FOOD FACTS BUREAU OF BOSTON 

"FOOD FACTS" in letters three feet high on a sign displayed in the 
windows of 69 Bedford Street strikes the eye of every pedestrian within 
visual range, and has for some days aroused considerable curiosity as 
to its significance. Closer approach reveals that this is an "Informa- 
tion Bureau and Directory of Food Facts." Behind this mysterious 
sign trained and enthusiastic women workers are rounding into shape 
a project which is designed to be a clearing house for all organizations 
working on food problems and a 'fountain of helpful information to 
every housewife, student or teacher of domestic economy, or any person 
in any way interested in practical, everyday questions of food economy, 
utilization, and conservation. 

Practically all organizations with correlative interests in the city and 
state have signified their desire to cooperate with the Food Facts 
Bureau, and to participate in the benefits of it, and the institution 
promises to become a most important factor in peace times as well as 
war times. Representatives of some 75 organizations interested in 
food conservation and home economics met by invitation at the Bureau 
for a conference. Twenty-six organizations definitely allied themselves 
with it. 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The purpose of the Bureau is to assemble, display, and facilitate the 
distribution of printed material on the subject of "Food Conservation; 
to catalogue agencies, and societies, in Massachusetts dealing with this 
problem; to coordinate the various separate agencies capable of giving 
specific information by the establishment of a clearing house, through 
which, without losing identity, they may cooperate; to organize a 
force of expert volunteers, women of training and experience, to vali- 
date, so far as is practicable, material collected by the Bureau; to issue 
from time to time, a bulletin called "Food Facts." 

It will be seen from this that the Bureau in no way overlaps or du- 
plicates the work of those organizations which are already doing splendid 
service in constructive work along the lines of lectures, demonstrations, 
and classes. Many of the questions which come to these organizations 
may be turned over to the Bureau for answer, greatly to the relief of 
these overworked centers, which in most cases have not the facilities for 
handling large numbers of inquiring visitors nor for maintaining a 
complete Hbrary and analytical catalogue of the literature involved. 

When in full swing the Bureau hopes, for example, to be able to refer 
any suburbanite or out-of-town visitor to a definite person or organi- 
zation working in his or her immediate locality, thus coordinating the 
scattered groups and associations working to the same end. It has 
been likened to the East Boston Tunnel. The tunnel isn't much to 
look at and for itself would never be sought out, but it serves a definite 
purpose in connecting Scollay Square and East Boston. Similarly the 
Food Facts Bureau serves as a channel of distribution of large collec- 
tions of information. 

Mrs. Herbert H. White is chairman of the Food Facts Committee 
which has direct charge of the Bureau and its operation, under the 
general administration of the War Service Committee of the Women's 
City Club, and the State Committee and City Committee on Food Con- 
servation, of which the chairmen are respectively Mrs. James J. Stor- 
row. Dean Sarah Louise Arnold of Simmons College, and Miss Mary 
A. Barr. The headquarters of the Food Facts Committee and the 
Bureau itself are familiar to many as the former location of the Labora- 
tory Kitchen, and the large space permits the visitor freedom and quiet. 
It is a cool, well ventilated room attractively fitted with spacious tables, 
comfortable chairs, and a few plants and flowers set about in esthetical- 
ly appealing Paul Revere Pottery products. 



1917] FOOD FACTS BUREAU OF BOSTON 453 

Miss Edith Guerrier who was lent by the Boston Public Library has 
been cataloguing and analyzing the collection of books, pamphlets, govern- 
ment publications, and every vehicle of authentic information available, 
so that any question arising may be answered in the most expeditious 
and comprehensive manner possible. The Boston Public Library 
has loaned temporarily such government publications as are now out 
of print or not yet received. This mass of material is being examined 
and vaHdated by a corps of volunteer experts and every effort is made 
to insure to housekeepers and others in search of help and advice the 
best that there is in existence. 

Publishers have almost unanimously assisted the Bureau by con- 
tributing copies of such pubUcations as they control. Approximately 
30 Agricultural Experiment Stations have furnished material and 
pamplilets. The Library Committee of the Simmons Club has given 
valuable service in the analytical cataloguing of the collection. 

The Bureau is essentially a specialized library, but a very live one. 
While the field of active demonstrations will be left to the organizations 
now occupying it so efi&ciently, these will be invited to conduct demon- 
strations at the Bureau. There will be also constantly changing ex- 
hibits of timely interest and educational value, under the supervision 
of Miss Margaret McGill. The exhibits will be self explanatory and 
intended to convey a definite suggestion or idea to the observer. A 
series of Dr. Blood's food charts is hung on the wall of the rooms at 69 
Bedford Street, and these are brought up to date weekly, as to current 
market prices and the comparative cost of foods of equal fuel value. 

Current Food Facts are posted conspicuously on bulletin boards, 
in the form of newspaper clippings, magazine articles, and daily an- 
nouncements arranged under classified headings, and every opportunity 
is afforded for studying these and other literature. 

Arrangements are under way by which it is expected that the mar- 
kets will cooperate wdth the Bureau in enabling it to publish daily the 
prices of seasonable products and the conditions of scarcity and over 
production. This one item would be of infinite value if generally used 
by housekeepers on their way to do their day's or week's marketing, 
and Vv'ould help the markets as well as the buying public. 

The Bureau has already cooperated to good purpose with Simmons 
College and the Public Safety Committee in getting before the public 
material on skim milk, a subject that has been much agitated of late. 
It is probable that the organization will have a large place in bringing 
about public benefits in this way. 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Suggestions and information from housekeepers are earnestly de- 
sired, as emphasized by a conspicuous poster hung on the walls of the 
Bureau: 

INFORMATION 

We Need to Receive as 
Well as to Give Information. 

DO YOUR BIT 

Send Us Any Food Facts of 
Value That You May Have. 



Such Material Will Not Be Lost. 
It Will Be Filed, Catalogued, and 
Displayed in Such a Manner That the 

PUBLIC 
Will Have the Benefit of It. 

The Bureau wants housekeepers and others, men and women, to 
come in and give any suggestions of practical housekeeping value as 
well as to ask for such information, thus making it truly a clearing 
house for individuals and organizations alike. It is especially desired 
that those famihar with foreign methods of cooking and food conser- 
vation give such information to the Bureau in order that the public 
may learn other than the limited American methods. 

Even before the Bureau was officially opened in September, the public 
was welcomed and urged to "Come in, look around and get acquainted," 
and incidentally to try out the effectiveness of the organization, by ask- 
ing the questions that occurred to each one. By early autumn the Food 
Facts Bureau became so well known that no formal introduction was 
necessary. 



ELLEN H. RICHARDS DAY FOR 1917 

B. R. ANDREWS 

Teachers College y New York City 

Teachers of home economics in high schools, normal schools, and 
colleges, as well as others are asked to observe Richards Day, December 
3, with a special program in which attention is given to the war and the 



1917] ELLEN H. RICHARDS DAY FOR 1917 455 

service which home economics can render in the war emergency. A 
prominent government official said recently that America has a re- 
source in this war which was never available in earlier emergencies, 
namely, Home Economics as an organized movement, with its trained 
workers and its estabhshed facts, and that the services of Ellen H. 
Richards in establishing such an educational movement could now be 
seen in something of their real importance. 

The Journal suggests that on Richards Day this year, wherever 
possible, use be made of the pageant, "America's Gifts to the Old 
World," which is especially appropriate during the war in which the 
United States is allied, as President Wilson has suggested, with five- 
sixths of the civilized powers of the earth. 

One central problem in the war situation, as all home economics 
workers appreciate, is the utilization of America's food supply to meet 
the needs of the Allies as well as ourselves. This pageant offers in a 
most interesting way a review of the distinctively American resources 
in food-stuffs. In connection with the pageant a statement might be 
made of the food situation, based upon the bulletin, "Ten Lessons on 
Food Conservation," published by the Food Administration, Washing- 
ton, D. G., and this would make an observance of Richards Day that 
would be not only very interesting but helpful to home economics 
students in comprehending the world's situation. As we all know, 
the Food Administration is asking that American corn be given pre- 
cedence in our diet, wherever possible, over wheat. The significance 
of corn as one of "America's Gifts to the World" would be most hap- 
pily emphasized by a presentation of the pageant. 

The Journal of Home Economics is prepared to furnish copies of 
the pageant. Funds raised through its presentation, it is suggested, 
may well be added to the Richards Fund. In this connection it is 
interesting to remember that the income from the Richards Fund 
is this year helping to support a graduate fellowship in home economics 
offered cooperatively by the University of Cliicago, and that during 
all the years gifts to the Fund wdll aid in advancing the movement 
which Ellen Richards initiated for the scientific control of living con- 
ditions through home economics. 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

CORN MEAL MUSH 

WALTER PROCTER JENNEY, PH.D. 

The more general consumption of corn meal as food, means more of 
other cereals for export to feed Our Allies — it is a way to Win the War. 

From the early settlements made by the English in America, down 
to the present day, practically only one way has been found to prepare 
corn meal mush, the "hasty pudding" of the Colonists. In the homes 
of the "Colonial Dames," corn meal was boiled for mush in practically 
the same way that is followed by their descendants in this year of Our 
Lord 1917. Even Sir Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford, an emi- 
nent American scientist and philanthropist, who (about 1783-1795) in 
time of famine, sought to improve the condition of the industrial classes 
in Bavaria by teaching them to use corn meal for food, knew no other 
way. It is related that standing, paddle in hand, beside a kettle of 
boiling water, with corn meal brought from America, he gave the people 
a scientific demonstration of the way to make "hasty pudding." 

No record appears to have been preserved as to how the early settlers 
first learned to make it. Possibly they were taught by the Indians, 
who, it is related, instructed the Pilgrims to put a fish in each hill when 
planting their corn — probably the earliest record of the emplo}Tnent 
in America of a fertilizer to stimulate the growth of a crop. 

Corn meal was the principal food of the Colonists. The War for 
Independence was fought on "hasty pudding" and corn bread. And 
in the War of the Rebellion, corn meal constituted the main subsistence 
of the people of the South. It should be an important article of food 
of the American people in this Great World War we have set ourselves 
to win. 

From the earliest tradition, the usual procedure in making corn 
meal mush has been to sift the meal slowly between. the fingers in a 
thin stream into the boiling water, while stirring the contents of the 
kettle with a wooden paddle held in the other hand. About a tea- 
spoonful of salt was added for each pint of water, but the meal was 
seldom measured, as the quantity required to give the mush the desired 
consistency, varied with each sample of meal, some meals swelling more 
than others. Commonly, one part of meal, by measure, was added 
to three and one-half to four and one-half parts of water. After all the 
meal was added, the kettle was stirred while boihng for a few minutes 



1917] CORN MEAL MUSH 457 

and then pushed back from the fire, and the mush allowed to slowly 
cook for an hour, or more, stirring occasionally. In recent years, the 
cooking of the mush is often finished in a fireless cooker. 

The quality of the mush is greatly influenced by the kind of corn from 
which the meal is made and the coarseness or fineness with which it is 
ground. Some manifest a preference for white, others for yellow corn. 
The product of the old fashioned water mills, where the shelled corn 
was ground just as it was received from the grower, without removing 
the germ, is especially favored. The fine flour-Hke meal, made by 
modern milling processes, is well adapted to mix with wheat flour, but 
afi'ords an inferior quahty of mush. 

The water should be freshly boiled, otherwise the mush is deficient 
in flavor. 

Slow cooking at a moderate heat, for a long time, is necessary to 
develop the full flavor of the mush. It does not seem possible to cook 
it too long, in fact, the longer it is cooked the better. Made in this 
way, with careful attention to every detail in its preparation, "hasty 
pudding" was simply delicious. 

By accident the writer discovered an improved method of cooking 
corn meal for "hasty pudding" or mush, that seems to him much less 
difiicult to carry out than the old way, and takes only about one-third 
the time. While engaged in preparing "hasty pudding" in "the good 
old way," he was called away just as the water commenced to boil, and 
turned off the flame. Returning in a few minutes, he started to add 
the meal, when the whole quantity accidently fell into the water. To 
his surprise, the meal quickly dift'used in the water, without clotting 
or forming lumps. This led to a study and the working out of the fol- 
lowing method. 

Procure the best corn meal obtainable, freshly ground and somewhat 
coarse. Probably the surest way to insure haxdng meal of the best 
quahty for mush and also for corn bread and cakes, is to select the 
finest corn of the new crop and grind it at home in a small grist mill, 
which can be purchased for a few dollars in the stores. The meal may 
be ground then coarse or fine, as desired, and in quantity to last for a 
day or for a number of days. 

It is not necessary to use a double boiler, any aluminum or porcelain- 
lined vessel of suitable size may be employed. To make about one 
quart of mush put five cups of water in the vessel, add one level table- 
spoon of salt, and heat to boiling. As soon as the water boils remove 



458 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

the vessel from the fire. Measure one cup of meal, level full, and at 
the expiration of three minutes, pour the meal into the water and stir 
until it is diffused; then replace the vessel upon the fire for four or 
five minutes and stir until the mush thickens enough to remain in sus- 
pension but at the same time is sufficiently fluid to pour cleanly out of 
the vessel. Pour into a deep porcelain-lined baking dish, provided 
with a closely fitting cover, and bake slov/ly in the oven for an hour or 
more. 

After it is placed in the oven, the mush cooks slowly in an atmosphere 
of steam and gradually thickens, becoming sufficiently solid when cold 
to admit of its being slipped out of the dish in which it was baked. 
After taking from the oven remove the cover of the dish and drain off 
the water condensed upon the cover and upon the surface of the mush. 
This steam-baking swells the meal to the maximum volume, which will 
vary somewhat with different kinds of meal. Some water also evapo- 
rates in the baking. If preferred, the baking may be carried out in a 
fireless cooker, two or more heated soapstone disks being added to en- 
sure the thorough cooking of the mush. 

Impressed with the idea that it was the air present in the mush while 
cooking that developed the flavor, the writer tried the experiment of 
mixing air with the hot semi-fluid mush before placing it in the oven 
by whipping it with an ordinary rotary egg-beater until the mush in- 
creased somewhat in volume and became light and creamy. The 
experiment was a success. The Hghtness and creamy consistence of 
the mush, caused by the aeration, proved to be permanent, even after 
two hours baking in the oven, and the flavor seemed superior to that of 
the same meal cooked in the various ways described. 

Corn meal mush is most often eaten cut in slices and fried, especially 
in cool weather. If it is to be used in this way it should be made some- 
what stiff er, allowing 1 cup of meal to only 3 or 4 cups of water. It is 
served with fried salt pork, home-made sausage, or with broiled bacon, 
or is eaten with honey or syrup. 

Mixed with milk, eggs, and shortening and made into balls and baked 
in the oven, it formed the "Indian dumplings" of the early settlers in 
New England, and was eaten as a vegetable with meats served with 
thick "made gravy" such as roast goose, roast turkey, or roast pork. 
In colonial days the supper of the children was generally a bowl of 
milk, with mush warm from the kettle in which it had been prepared. 
It was eaten for breakfast or lunch, either hot or cold, with molasses or 
with maple syrup. 



1917] CORN MEAL MUSH 459 

Corn meal mush may be eaten with sour cream and with sour milk 
in all its forms — clabbered milk, curds and whey, and sour milk cheese, 
commonly known as "cottage cheese." 

For breakfast or dessert, mush is eaten cold with sugar and cream, 
and with fresh fruit, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, sliced 
peaches, or apple sauce. For this purpose the mush is made with less 
salt. When fresh fruit is not obtainable, preserves or stewed dried 
fruit — prunes, apricots, or peaches may be substituted. 

Something like one hundred and twenty-five years have rolled by 
since Count Rumford taught some hungry people in Europe how to 
make corn meal mush. While in England and France its use is as yet 
limited, compared with what it might be made, corn meal is exten- 
sively consumed in Italy. The Italians have made economy in food a 
special study, and eat corn meal mush, cut in slices and fried, as in 
America. They also use it as the foundation for "polenta," placing a 
thick layer of sHces of mush in the bottom of a deep baking dish, covering 
it with pieces of cold meat, and then prepare a sauce, using the gravy 
of the meat and adding tomatoes, red (chile) peppers, onions and a 
little garhc, with any sweet herbs, parsley, or celery at hand, not for- 
getting a slice of lemon. The sauce is heated to boiling, poured over 
the meat and the whole sprinkled generously with grated cheese and 
browned in the oven. 

The people in many parts of America badly need instruction in 
cooking corn meal. A prominent scientist of Washington, remarked 
to the writer: "It is surprising, when one travels through some parts 
of this country, to find that where they raise the finest corn, they cook 
it so badly. Their corn bread comes to the table half cooked — it 
tastes raw — like chicken feed." 

Bad cooking is not confined to corn meal alone. Of course there 
are many delightful exceptions, but it must be confessed, that gener- 
ally throughout this great country, good faithful missionary work in 
the preparation of food is greatly needed. If ever there was a country 
that needed intensive instruction in domestic economy it is America. 



460 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

CORN FESTIVALS 

ANNA BARROWS 
Teachers College, New York City 

Drama has been used from time immemorial to bring before the people 
some important truth, or enforce some practical lesson. 

The Hebrew prophets were "past masters" in this method of teaching, 
and all through the Old Testament we find it illustrated. The celebra- 
tion of the Harvest, common, not only to Jew and Greek, but to primi- 
tive peoples the world over, was really one kind of dramatic lesson, and 
even the New England Thanksgiving partook of this character, though 
perhaps the Pilgrims themselves would have been the last to realize it. 

One of these old festivals rarely mentioned is Lammas Day or Lammas- 
tide, celebrated the first day of August. The dictionaries tell us that 
the name means the loaf-mass, bread-feast, or feast of first fruits, and 
that it is a contraction of two Anglo-Saxon words meaning loaf and feast. 
According to Chambers' "Book of Days" this was a survival of the four 
great pagan festivals of Britain, the others coming on the first days of 
November, February, and May. After the introduction of Christianity, 
the general observance of the day was continued in commemoration of 
the grain harvest, and a loaf was the offering at the church. 

The American Indians held a "corn dance" to celebrate their ingath- 
ering. Why do not we today stimulate the use of corn by having corn 
festivals, that might well combine exhibits, a series of tableaux and read- 
ings, and a luncheon or supper? 

At about the time of the Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893, 
considerable interest was shown in such affairs, probably because the 
Indian Corn was one of the gifts of the new world to the old. Even 
before that, there were Corn Palaces, and the decorative effects of corn 
were displayed in diverse fashion. 

"Maize Festival" would be a more correct term than "Corn" to 
apply to such celebrations, since the latter word is applied to grains in 
general. The corn mentioned in the Bible was not the Indian corn. 

If such a festival is planned and a large room or hall is available, 
shocks of corn may be used for decoration. The ripe ears may be 
fastened on the wall in the form of letters for mottoes, or rosettes, and 
vases may be filled with the spindels. 

Traces or single ears of corn may decorate the table, and for place 
cards clean, smooth husks may be used. Even the dress of the guests 
might be made of corn husks, or bracelets and necklaces of the kernels 
may be worn. 

The fitness of things should be carefully considered in planning a 
menu espetially adapted to each occasion. 



1917] 



CORN FESTIVALS 



461 



Before me is the menu of "The Feast of Mondamin" given in a little 
Maine \dllage in 1888. 



Corned Beef 
Com, Canned 
Corn Johnny Cake 
Corn, Hulled 
Baked Indian Pudding 



MENU 

Genesis XLII, 2 

Boiled 

Genesis XVIII, 8 

Corned Tongue 

Vegetables 

Deuteronomy XVIU, 4 

Maize Dishes 

II Samuel VI, 19 

Com Gems 

Entrees 
Joshua V, 11 

Puddings 
Zechariah IX, 17 

Pastry 

Corn Starch Pie 

Dessert 



Corned Shoulder of Pork 



Succotash 



Com Bread 



Corn Mush 



Corn Starch 



Com Starch Cake 



Popped Corn in Cornucopias 



Corn Starch Blanc Mange 
Corn Balls 



A similar entertainment has just been given in the same place. 

For a meeting of the State Federation of Women's Clubs, or any- 
smaller gathering of that sort, less substance and more garnish might be 
desirable than if it were being gotten ready for a convention of Boy 
Scouts. 

With present prices of meats, we should use all our ingenuity to see 
if we cannot get up an attractive meal from corn and milk without the 
use of meats. Here are two menus: 



Com Chowder 



Cream of Com Soup 



Samp, Lyonnaise, Tomato Sauce 
Boston Brown Bread 



Hominy Croquettes, Cheese Sauce 
Com Muffins 



Succotash Salad 
Com Wafers 



Salad of Canned Com and Pimentoes 
Brown Bread Sandwiches 



Blanc Mange (Cornstarch) 
Com Syrup Sauce 



Baked Indian Pudding 

or 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 



462 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

This by no means exhausts the list of corn dishes. Canned corn 
may be scalloped, or made into fritters. Popcorn may be used in place 
of croutons in soup, or in corn balls. Crushed popcorn sifted through 
a frying basket or other coarse strainer may be used like nuts in little 
meringues or kisses, or sprinkled over frosting on cake. Toasted corn 
flakes may be used in the same way. Corn syrup may be used for 
sweetening some of the foods. Corn coffee, made by parching the 
cracked grains or, better still, from the browned crusts of Boston Brown 
Bread, may be substituted for the real coffee. This beverage was 
made for children and invalids long before the manufacturer s thought 
of making it. 

"Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It." Farmers' Bulletin 
No. 565 of the United States Department of Agriculture, gives more 
than fifty tested recipes for the use of corn meal. 

The southern part of our country has held more closely to the earlier 
methods of preparing corn for human food than any other section. 
There the white varieties are preferred, while the North calls for the 
yellow, and the regions toward Mexico where the Spanish tastes still 
influence are said to make more use of the darker shades even the pur- 
plish tints. In that region tamales and tortillas are favorite ways of 
using corn but there is no reason why they should not be prepared 
elsewhere. 

The literary program for a Corn Festival might be as follows: 

PROGRAM 

1. Cornet Solo. 

2. Reading: Whittier's Corn Song. 

3. A brief essay written from the botanical standpoint. Sargent's 
Corn Plants would furnish material for this. 

4. Reading: Hiawatha, illustrated by tableaux. 

5. Quotations read by all who are present. 

6. Song: Three Grains of Corn. 

7. A short historical sketch. 

8. Reading: Barlow's "Hasty Pudding," or "The Johnny Cake." 

9. Reading: Whittier's "Husking," illustrated. 

10. Chorus: Negro Melody. Going to the Shucking. 
As might be expected no other poet has given us more corn poetry 
than Whittier. 



1917] CORN FESTTV'ALS 463 

There is his Corn Song, beginning: 

Heap high the farmer's wintry board! 

Heap high the golden com! 
No richer gift has autumn poured 
From out her lavish horn! 

His Song of the Pumpkin might be fitly introduced since pumpkins 
are always raised among the corn. 

An illustration is easily arranged by representing the interior of a 
barn with a group of people among the corn for the buskers. 

Bent low by autumn's wind and rain, 

Through husks that dry and sere, 
Unfolded from their ripened charge, 
Shone out the yellow ear. 

A rehgious ser\'ice for Sunday School might fitly be planned for 
either sowing or harvest time. The story of the grains could be told 
reverently, and their importance in the life of man shown, especially 
the influence on the early history of this country, since the first settlers, 
both in Virginia and Massachusetts, owed their existence to Indian 
corn and to the Indians who showed them how to raise and how to cook 
it. Here is what Captain John Smith had to say about it: 

With only six or seven companies I dropped down the river, and making 
signs to some Indians for what we wanted, they derided us as famished men, 
and offered us a handful of com or a piece of bread in exchange for swords 
and muskets .... Presently they sent their ambassadors to me with 
corn, fish, and fowl, and whatsoever they had, in order to make their peace. 
Powhatan sent a message saying he would load my ship with corn if I would 
but send him some men to build him a house, give him a grindstone, some 
guns, a cock and hen, together with some coffee and beads. 

One of the early New England colonists writes of the scarcity of their 
food and their dependence on corn: 

When I could have meal and water and salt boiled together, it was so 
good who could wish better? The Indians did sometimes bring corn, and 
truck with us for clothing and knives. 

Indian corn is the distinctive grain of this land. More attention 
could well be given to teaching something of its history to the children, 
and to the people of other countries who have come to live with us. 
This may best be done through something of the festival order. 



464 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Besides this, especially this year, every patriotic citizen should see 
to it that corn appears daily on the home table, and he should also en- 
deavour to introduce it to friends who have neglected or never known 
its good qualities. 



A CORN RHAPSODY 

We shall call him Corn, the King of Plenty. There stands the 
American nonpariel of all the vegetable kingdom, eight, nine, ten 
feet high, towering far above all other annual plants, and serried into 
armies of defense against want, file by file and rank by rank, into batal- 
lions, divisions, and corps d'armes, a gallant and gaily caparisoned host 
covering a battlefield of 79,000,000 acres. 

See him where he stands erect, proud of bearing, with his plume 
swaying grandly in the breeze and in the gladsome warmth of the sun- 
shine which he loves. But as he stands in his strength and splendor 
he works and never sleeps. With his alchemy of long, tapering blades, 
he is extracting the wealth of oxj-^gen and ozone from the air to com- 
bine with the mineral elements extracted by his sappers and miners 
from the generous soil on which he stands, and he is converting it all 
into gold. Springing from a once little kernel, growing into a miracle 
of beauty and strength, he is with all his dignity and finery not for- 
getting his destiny — the destiny not only of presenting to mankind the 
climax of vegetable bravery of apparel and form, but also the climax 
of creative capacity and execution. As he waxes in height, strength 
and grace with his pennons and plumes, he adorns his frame with 
jewels — ear after ear of the generous fruitage of his body, which, ever 
attentive to beauty as to substance, he festoons with tassels of silk, 
and anon he enriches them with row after row in phalanxes of tens, 
hundreds, thousands of the richest gifts of Ceres to the earth. — Henry 
Watterson. 



Indian maize hath, of certain, an excellent spirit of nourishment; 
but it must be thoroughly boyled, and made into a maize-creame, like 
a barley creame. — Francis Bacon, in Natural History. 



1917] THE JOHNNY-CAKE 465 

THE JOHNNY-CAKE 

Little Sarah she stood by her grandmother's bed, 
"And what shall I get for your breakfast?" she said. 
"You shall get me a johnny-cake: quickly go make it, 
In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it." 

So Sarah she went to the closet to see 

If yet any meal in the barrel might be. 

The barrel had long time been empty as wind; 

Not a speck of the bright yellow meal could she find. 

But grandmother's johnny-cake — still she must make it, 

In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it. 

She ran to the shop; but the shopkeeper said, 
"I have none — you must go to the miller, fair maid; 
For he has a mill, and he'll put the com in it. 
And grind you some nice yellow meal in a minute; 
But run, or the johnny-cake, how will you make it. 
In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it?" 

TJien Sarah she ran every step of the way, 
But the miUer said, "No, I have no meal to-day; 
Run, quick, to the cornfield, just over the hill. 
And if any be there, you may fetch it to mill. 
Run, run, or the johnny-cake, how will you make it. 
In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it?" 

She ran to the cornfield — the corn had not grown, 
Though the sun in the blue sky aU pleasantly shone. 
"Pretty sun," cried the maiden, "please make the com grow." 
"Pretty maid," the sun answered, "I cannot do so." 
"Then grandmother's johnny-cake, how shall I make it, 
In one minute mix, and in two. minutes bake it?" 

Then Sarah looked roimd, and she saw what was wanted; 
The com could not grow, for no corn had been planted. 
She asked of the farmer to sow her some grain, 
But the farmer he laughed till his sides ached again. 
"Ho! ho! for the johnny-cake, — how can you make it. 
In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it?" 

The farmer he laughed, and he laughed out aloud, — 
"And how can I plant till the earth has been ploughed? 
Run, run to the ploughman, and bring him with speed; 
He'll plough up the ground, and I'll fill it with seed." 
Away, then, ran Sarah, still hoping to make it. 
In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it. 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The ploughman he ploughed, and the grain it was sown, 
And the sun shed his rays till the corn was all grown. 
It was ground at the mill, and again in her bed 
These words to poor Sarah the grandmother said: 
"You shall get me a johnny-cake — quickly go make it, 
In one minute mix, and in two minutes bake it." 

THE HASTY PUDDING 

Some tawny Ceres, goddess of her days. 

First learned with stones to crack the well-dried maize, 

Through the rough sieve to shake the golden shower. 

In boiling water stir the yellow flour; 

The yellow flour bestrewed and stirr'd with haste, 

Swells in the flood and thickens to a paste. 

Then puffs and wallops, rises to the brim. 

Drinks the dry knobs that on the surface swim; 

The knobs at last the busy ladle breaks, 

And the whole mass its true consistence takes. , 

Delicious grain! whatever form it take. 
To roast or boil, to smother or to bake, 
In every dish 'tis welcome still to me, 
But most, my Hasty Pudding, most in thee. 

Joel Barlow. 

The Food Conservation Section of the United States Food Admin- 
istration is about to issue a Bulletin of instructions and suggestions to 
Librarians in order that they may cooperate with the Administration 
in placing before the people of the United States the ways in which we at 
home may help win the War. This bulletin is prefaced by the following 
letter: 

To the Librarians of the United States: 

Libraries are so organized as to get in touch with ALL THE PEOPLE, rich 
and poor, young and old. You librarians are many of you doing your "bit" 
along the line of food conservation. To encourage those already at work and 
to spur to endeavor those who are letting the side of food conservation go in 
their complete absorption in other things, the Food Administration will es- 
tabUsh with you a direct communication through a series of monthly "Food 
News Notes for Libraries," which will enable you to know the food fact to be 
stressed, and will give you suggestions as to lists of books and pamphlets and 
other usable material. 

We ask your loyal siipport and we know that you will give it. 



1917] MESSAGES FROM FOOD ADMINISTRATION 467 

TWO MESSAGES FROM THE FOOD ADMINISTRATION 

We have received a request from the French Government that we al- 
low them to export from the United States 100,000 tons of sugar within 
a month, and probably more at a later period. 

Our own situation is that we have just sufficient sugar to maintain 
our normal consumption until the first of January, when the new West 
Indian crop becomes available to all. 

Our consumption is at the rate of 90 pounds per person per year — a 
little under 4 ounces per day per person. 

The French people are on a ration of sugar equal to only 21 pounds 
per person per year — or at the rate of less than one single ounce per day 
per person — a little more than the weight of a silver dollar each day. 
The English and Italian rations are also not over 1 ounce per day. 

The French people will be entirely without sugar for over two months 
if we refuse to part with enough from our stocks to keep them supplied 
with even this small allowance, as it is not available from any other 
quarter. 

Sugar even to a greater amount than the French ration is a human 
necessity. If our people will reduce by one-third their purchases and 
consumption of candy and of sugar for other uses than preserving fruit, 
with which we do not wish to interfere, we can save the French situation. 

In the interest of the French people, and of the loyalty we owe them 
to divide our food in the maintenance of our common cause, I ask the 
American people to do this. It is unthinkable that we refuse their 
request. 

, [Signed] Herbert Hoover. 

The week of October 21 to 28 has been selected for a nation-wide cam- 
paign to complete the enrollment of our forces in conservation of our 
food supply. 

The harvest is now in hand, and we can measure the world's food re- 
sources. The available supplies this harvest year are less than last 
year; the demand upon us is greater than last year, and from the last 
harvest we exported more than we could really afford. We can only 
meet the call upon us next year by savings and by substitution of com- 
modities which cannot be transported. 

The Allies are our first line of defense. They must be fed, and food 
will win the war. All Europe is on rations or restricted supplies. Only 



468 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

in our own country is each one permitted to judge for himself the duty 
he owes his country in food consumption, although the world depends 
upon us to guard and provide its food supply. 

This is a duty of necessity, humanity, and honor. As a free people 
we have elected to discharge this duty, not under autocratic decree but 
without other restraint than the guidance of individual conscience. On 
the success of this unprecedented adventure in democracy will largely 
stake the issue of the war. 

We are asking every householder, every hotel, restaurant, and dealer in 
foodstuffs in the nation to become a member of the Food Administration 
for conservation, and to pledge themselves to follow, insofar as circum- 
stances permit, the suggestions that will be offered from time to time 
as to measures of food savings. 

For us there is no threat of privation. We wish only that our people 
should eat plenty, but wisely and without waste. Wisdom in eating is 
to make possible such adjustments in our food consumption, shipping 
and war necessities as will allow us to fulfill our duty in exports to our 
Allies. By elimination of waste we serve ourselves economically and 
morally. 

I therefore appeal to the churches and to the schools for their 
assistance in this crusade; to all the organizations for defense, local 
and national; to all the agencies, commercial, social and civic, that 
they join the Administration in this work for the fundamental safety 
of the Nation. 

[Signed] Herbert Hoover. 



The scarcity of leather has led the shoe repairers of the United States, 
who are organized in over 80 associations, to advocate the use of rubber 
heels. Leather heels have risen in price so that the repairmen have to 
charge 50 per cent more than they did before the war, but rubber soles 
and heels show practically no advance in price, and they have the ad- 
vantage that they can be put onto shoes by moderately skilled labor. 

Weekly Bulletin, Food Administration. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

DEMONSTRATING IN AND TO THE HOME 

A. C. TRUE 
Director, States Relations Service 

By the time this magazine is published, the Department of Agricul- 
ture hopes to have increased its force of women county agents and 
women home demonstration agents to such an extent that their ser- 
vices will be available to the ma,jority of the communities of the United 
States. This is not the announcement of a new organization; it is 
merely the development of work which began in 1910 with the organi- 
zation of canning clubs in three counties in Virginia and one in South 
Carolina. Ever since the declaration of the existence of a state of war, 
the Department has been planning the development of this work so as to 
bring the information and experience of the Department, through trained 
deputies, to the women of America. 

It is vital to the success of this movement that the readers of the 
great women's magazines of the United States should understand the 
educational system which the Department of Agriculture has been build- 
ing up during the last seven years. It is probably news to most women 
that early in the summer there were over 500 home demonstration 
agents and an enrollment in canning clubs of approximately 100,000 
women and girls. In these emergency days, when the work of women 
is so important to the safety of the country, enrollments have multi- 
phed by the thousands and our experts estimate that during 1917 there 
will be ten times as many girls and women carrying on some phase of the 
home demonstration work as there were in 1916. This will make an 
army of about a million with trained leaders enough to guarantee 
efficiency as well as success throughout the ranks. 

The history of the home demonstration work has been a natural 
process of development. The county agents have had the girls and 
women make their demonstrations with fundamentals and necessities. 
They started with vegetables and fruits; later they took up work with 

469 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

bread and meat; soon they began to use milk and butter. All along 
incidental things were interwoven and incidental instruction was given. 
Canning, preserving, brining, curing and drying are but incidental pro- 
cesses in the campaign of saving food. Instead of academic lessons in 
sewing the club members tvere taught to make their own caps, aprons, 
uniforms, towels and other things necessary to the work in hand. Time 
and labor saving devices were bought as the occasion arose. Thousands 
of fireless cookers were made to utilize the products put in the pantries 
by the girls in connection with the chicken, eggs and meats being studied 
by the women and the best ways of utilizing these products so as to 
insure a nutritious, healthful, and economical diet are also being taught. 
Lessons and lectures on sanitation have been found to be ineffective 
compared with showing the necessity for cleanliness in putting up nice 
packs of vegetables and fruits, and in making high-class butter and 
cheese. Sanitation is learned by creating a demand and showing a 
necessity for it. More fly traps and fly swatters have been made, more 
doors and windows have been screened and more water works estab- 
Hshed in order to aid the club girl and her mother in making their com- 
munity a simple object lesson in saving food than could possibly have 
been done in any other way. 

The Department contemplates taking up this same kind of work with 
the city women. Although the club members in the cities may not be 
able to produce foods in such large quantities as those in the rural 
districts, they have greater opportunities for saving, collecting, market- 
ing, and preparing foods. In the city work it is expected that organ- 
ized bodies of women will be used as in the county work, and that the 
method of getting demonstration done in the homes will have a perma- 
nent place in this new line of work. 

The Department urges the women of the United States to inform 
themselves as to the home demonstration work which is about to be so 
rapidly extended, that, working together with the Federal Government, 
they may successfully meet not only this emergency, but build better 
and happier households for the coming year. 

If you do not know who your county agent is or whether you have a 
county agent, get in touch with the Director of the Extension Service 
at the State Agricultural College. He will be able to put you on the 
road to cooperation along the lines suggested. 



1917] CLUB PROGRAMS IN WAR TIME 471 

CLUB PROGRAMS IN WAR TIME 

HELEN LOUISE JOHNSON 

During this past summer, ever since war was declared on April 6, 
the women of the country have been lending their intelligent aid, and 
experience in organizing, to certain tasks seemingly outside the special 
field of club work. The Woman's Committee of the Council of Na- 
tional Defense has been organizing its machinery. The American Red 
Cross has been increasing its membership from a comparatively few to 
enormous numbers in these few months. Many new organizations 
have sprung up in spite of the present day belief that there is waste in 
competition and that consolidation of interests makes for a saving of 
every resource. 

In many of these tasks club women have been the most sought for 
and efficient workers, because their training has been along the lines 
required in these seemingly new endeavors; and, because they have 
been engrossed and occupied in war service, there has been an un- 
grounded fear that club work must suffer. 

It is ungrounded for two reasons: First, because war ser\dce work, 
except in two particulars, differs not in kind but in intensity from the 
interests, topics, and programs that held and vitalized clubs before 
the war. Second, because the women of the clubs of both State and 
General Federation know the power and efficiency of organized effort, 
and reahze that to loosen the bonds of their organizations means to 
lessen the value of their service at this time. 

Their programs will differ from those of a few years since, and yet 
if the club woro.en are wise they will not let them go too far away from 
the realities of life, — those things which make for permanent good, 
for beauty, for truth, and for the growth of the spirit. Art and music 
and literature must be cherished today as never before, that life itself 
may be kept sweet and true at its source. To allow the materiaUsm 
of war to blot out or lessen our love of hfe at its best, would be to 
sacrifice a great factor in the moral renovation which should follow a 
war into which this country has entered for the sake of its ideals. 

The club movement as it is understood today, began almost directly 
after the close of the Civil War. It had its inception when new in- 
dustrial activities were making unprecedented changes in our social 
world ; when new duties and hitherto untried civic responsibilities were 
thrust upon women; when the value of child life was claiming new 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

recognition, and public health measures were forced upon a /^awakened 
country. 

Today there is another, not a new but the old, insistent call to serv- 
ice. Much has been achieved for both men and women since Emma 
Willard and Mary Lyon dared to ask adequate educational opportunities 
for the daughters of mothers as well as for their sons. The progress of 
the bloodless revolution for the physical and intellectual liberty of 
women has moved with great rapidity since the Woman's Christian 
Temperance Union and the Woman's Suffrage Association formed the 
first groups of pioneer workers with a world wide affiliation for a com- 
mon purpose. 

Women now work side by side with men. They are found adequate 
and ready to fill the spaces in the ranks of the industrial army when 
the call to arms has come. They are helping, aiding, giving service 
everywhere and, just because they are, the club movement will receive 
new life, a new impetus, for it is needed more than ever before, be- 
cause in times of war, even more than in times of peace, every possible 
means should be employed for the safe-guarding of the home, and all 
that the home means. 

Horatio Dresser has told us that the movement in behalf of efficiency 
means an intelligent effort to provide for individual work under con- 
ditions more favorable for all concerned. So wherever there is the 
most complete cooperation in an organization there is the greatest 
eflSciency. A mere -system of organization does not necessarily mean 
efficiency. Into that machinery must be infused a spirit sufficiently 
great to result in disinterested, unselfish ser\dce, a spirit which compels 
the putting aside of personal ambition for individual or single club 
recognition for the sake of the work to be done. Cooperation means 
sharing. It indicates the working together for a common aim. It 
demands a giving as well as a taking from both sides. And this is the 
kind of work and service club work has taught women to do. 

Again new industries are opening to women. Again new kinds of 
activities are pressing their needs upon a busy world. Again new 
duties and further ci\dc responsibilities are being thrust upon women. 
Again is there need of safeguarding the home and its interests; of in- 
creased effort toward public health and public safety measures. Again 
little children must be cherished and cared for physically and intellec- 
tually so that they may become the nation's reliance, its true wealth in 
the years to come. 



1917] CLUB PROGRAMS IN WAR TIME 473 

Conservation has become the slogan, the watchword of the day. 
If we are not careful we may forget that it refers to anything but food. 
Yet all our resources should be preserved from decay, loss, or injury, 
and this means that we must not alone continue to work for the pres- 
ervation of our great national parks in all their beauty, for waterways, 
for forests and birds and trees, but that the future of the race to use and 
enjoy these should also be assured. 

We cannot afford to have women taken from the home into industry 
until the last alternative has been tried. We cannot afford to have 
happy children transformed into tired, dull eyed, hopeless, stupid, 
or vicious young people. We cannot afford to let down by a single inch 
the all too insufficient bars we have erected about the labor of women 
and children, nor consent to any measure which lessens the value of 
a food material or may unduly increase its price. The future of a 
nation is at stake. The womanhood of women, the childhood of chil- 
dren must be kept from direct or insidious attack as we are striving to 
protect the manhood of men. 

So now we are planning club programs based on this great idea of 
conservation of life, and this means that we cannot well leave out the 
work of any one of the eleven departments. All are needed. A great 
war program can be built upon and from them, stimulating, inspiring, 
and helpful. 

The majority of clubs have weekly meetings from the first of October 
to the first of June. This gives thirty weeks in which to study and 
work for the conservation of our resources, material, physical, intel- 
lectual, and spritual. 

In order to mark real accomplishment it would be wisdom to select 
three special Hnes of work, using the work of the other departments to 
strengthen, amplify, widen and beautify these. Because of the sorrows, 
the perils, the hardships, and the privations of war, it will be neces- 
sary in every possible way to guard against the lowering of tone in the 
ordinary conmiunity, and here the music and literature departments 
should be of the greatest help. 

Community singing needs to be promoted. Community gatherings 
where joy and happiness can be made the key note, and where the 
right kind of fun for young people, and the right kind of entertainment 
for older ones are provided and enjoyed. 

This should be one of the lines of work undertaken and promoted 
by the clubs, for preventive measures are much more intelligent, more 
constructive, and cost less than curative ones. 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

The second should be linked with what we have called industrial 
and social conditions, a work that must broaden its scope and closely- 
coordinate its activities with those of other departments, — the con- 
servation, civics, education, home economics, public health, and, above 
all, legislation. Welfare as an economic quantity must be taught and 
preached to every one in order that the welfare of all may be conserved. 

Mr. Creel has said: 

For the last generation, in our legislation, in our education, and in our 
social and philanthropic work we have been trying increasingly to make the 
nation make the most of itself. We have been bettering the conditions of labor 
and of living; by law and by private effort we have succeeded in maintaining 
an increasingly high standard of health and efficiency. We have been experi- 
menting in education, adapting our school machinery and methods to the 
JieWer industrial conditions and the modes of living and earning a living that 
they have forced upon our children. Our bureaus of public health, our labor 
laws, and our charitable organizations have combined to reduce the ravages 
of disease, fatigue, and unhealthful surroundings both in the home and work- 
ing life of the poor. 

The first impulse after war was declared was to cast all one's effort and 
enthusiasm into work that had an immediate and obvious military bearing; 
to regard reconstructive activities as luxuries that must wait for their con- 
tinuance until war was over. But these protective and conserving agencies 
are peculiarly necessary in war time when increased pressure in every de- 
partment of life and industry tends to throw off the safeguards it has taken 
a generation to achieve. One of the most important branches of military 
science is devoted to keeping the soldier at the maximum of vitality. It is 
no less imperative to keep the civilian corps at the same pitch of effectiveness. 
The conserving and constructive agencies of peace, whether in the form of 
labor legislation, education, or social work, instead of being abandoned, should 
be redoubled in their efforts and, so far as conditions will permit, broadened 
in their scope. 

Here is the reason for renewed efforts in the lines of work clubs al- 
ready have been pursuing. 

The education department has an enormous task before it, not alone 
because immedite problems are presented, but because of the neces- 
sary changes war is already forcing upon our time worn, in some cases 
almost obsolete, curricula. The schools and colleges must be kept 
open. There is extreme need for the best trained men and women, 
the experts in every technical field. Our industrial development will 
be irremediably handicapped if our technical forces are not constantly 



1917] CLUB PROGRAMS IN WAR TIME 475 

fed. Therefore the elementary and high schools must be made more, 
not less efficient, for these are the feeders for the more advanced tasks, 
and from them also without further training must be sent out classes 
of young men and women to fill the clerical and routine positions left 
vacant by the draft. If there is the slightest let down in our educational 
standards and requirements we shall find ourselves in a few years 
with a civilian army of incompetents. 

Child welfare work, public health work, and home economics in 
its broadest interpretation, all these are of paramount importance. 
Programs should be simpHfied and directed toward a general purpose 
which may well be that voiced by the General Federation for its war 
ser\dce work, — "to prevent the disintegration of the home and the low- 
ering of standards of living." 

The food conservation movement has already been taken up by the 
clubs in class work, lectures, demonstrations, and study. But all this 
should be coordinated so that individual effort will not be lost and the 
clubs will strengthen their organization. If women do not realize 
that their strength lies in the community work they are able to do by 
the very fact of an already existing organization, they may fimd their 
work dissipated through other less effective and far reaching channels. 

Form your club programs with certain definite purposes in view and 
then use your facilities, your knowledge, your training, your experience, 
and organization to the utmost in performing the service which has been 
voiced as the great purpose of federated women today — "conservation 
of life, of liberty and of happiness; conservation of child life, of woman- 
hood, of civic and national integrity in matters of public and private 
import; conservation of the best and highest functions of womanhood 
which shall make her in truth the conserver of all that is best in our 
advancing civilization, preserver of all that is good in the civilization 
of the past, and helpmeet in the daily battle of life which is constantly 
going on." 

This then should form the basis of club programs for war time. 



476 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



EAT WISELY AND WELL" 



Eat and Grow Fat 

Find out how many calories 
you need per day to maintain 
your present weight. 

To gain in weight you must eat 
food }delding a larger number of 
calories than are required for 
maintenance. 

It is not necessary to increase 
your protein intake. 

Select concentrated rather than 
bulky foods; eat fats, milk, sugar, 
breads, starchy vegetables, etc. 

A setting 
ivill give 
you about: 
Cfwose: calories 

Cream soups 200 

Baked beans 200 

Potatoes, white 150 



Potatoes, sweet. 

Succotash 

Carrots 

Preserved fruits. 

Pastry 

Ice cream 

Cake 



200 

150 

75 

. . . ." 125 

300 

200 

200 

Cream, per cup (18 per cent fat) 400 



Eat and Grow Thin 

Find out how many calories 
you need per day to maintain 
your present weight. 

Your protein requirement will 
be about 10 per cent of this 
amount. 

To lose weight with safety you 
must eat food yielding fewer cal- 
ories than the number required 
for maintenance, taking the full 
amount of protein. 

It is perfectly safe to take 500 
calories a day less than your 
maintenance requirement. 

In addition to the protein foods 
— meat, eggs, beans, or cheese — 
select bulky rather than concen- 
trated foods. 

A sening 

will give 

you about: 

Choose : calories 

Clear soups 20 

Cabbage 25 

Spinach 40 

Celery 10 

Lettuce 10 

Tomatoes 20 

Fresh fruits 30-90 

Lemon jelly ■ 100 

Ices 100 

Coffee jelly 40 



— Used by permission of the University of Minnesota, 



1917] CORN MEAL RECIPES 477 

CORN MEAL RECIPES 

From Various Sources, but all "Tried and True" 

spoon corn bread 

1 cup white commeal 1 cup milk 

2 cups water 1 tablespoon fat 
2 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix cornmeal and water, and bring slowly to boiling point. Cool 
five minutes. Add eggs, well beaten, and other ingredients. Beat 
thoroughly and bake in a well greased pan twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven. Serve from the same dish with a spoon. 

(U. S. Farmers' Bulletin.) 

OWENDAW 

Boil 1 pint of hominy grits with 3 pints of salted water until mixture 
thickens, then set on back of stove and cook slowly until done, about 
half an hour. While hot mix in 1 large spoonful fat and 3 eggs beaten 
very light; next add 1 pint of milk, and lastly 1 pint of cornmeal. The 
batter should be the consistency of rich boiled custard. If too thick add 
milk. Bake with good deal heat at bottom until the batter is set. 
Serve with spoon from dish. This is a soft breakfast bread and a South 
Carolina specialty. (Mrs. J. C. Witherspoon.) 

CORN pone 

2 cups white commeal 1^ cups buttermilk 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted fat 

^ teaspoon soda 

Sift meal, salt, and soda together, stir in the buttermilk; add the 
melted fat and beat until smooth. ' Wet the hands in cold water and 
shape the mixture into small pones. Brush a griddle or pan over with 
melted fat, and let get smoking hot, then place the pones on it. Bake 
in a moderately hot oven until thoroughly done and brown. 

(Cecilia De Nellottz.) 

baked indian pudding 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoon ginger 

5 cup corn meal f cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 

Scald the milk, and pour over meal and cook twenty minutes in a 
double boiler. Add salt, ginger and molasses. Pour into a greased 
baking dish and cook in a moderate oven until firm, about three hours. 

(Teachers College.) 



478 THE jomiNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

BAKED INDIAN AND APPLE PUDDING 

1 pint milk ^ teaspoon ginger 

i cup cornmeal J cup molasses 

I teaspoon salt 1 apple 

Sift cornmeal slowly into the scalded milk, stirring constantly. 
Cook in double boiler thirty minutes, stirring occasionally. Add salt, 
ginger, and molasses. Put into greased baking dish and bake 1 hour in 
a slow oven, stirring occasionally. Slice apple and stir into pudding. 
Bake until apples are tender. (Teachers College.) 

THE RED CROSS 

The Red Cross Commissioner in France has cabled for 1,500,000 
each of sweaters, mufflers, mittens, and socks, and the Woman's Bureau 
has issued directions for making these according to patterns most 
desired. In order that they may be uniform the Red Cross Supply 
Service has had knitting needles made in the correct sizes to be called 
Red Cross needles Nos. 1, 2, and 3. No. 1 is as large as a No. 10 steel 
needle, as the socks wanted are heavy golf socks. Many women in knit- 
ting the socks are ignoring the fact that the directions call for these large 
needles and heavy 4 ply lO's yarn, and are making socks that are too 
small, and not sufficiently heavy for the trenches. The sock given in 
the circular is the one the Canadians have found most successful, and 
while there are many other good directions for knitting socks, those 
knitted for France can hardly be too heavy, as the cold will probably be 
intense. 

The Woman's Bureau of the Red Cross has issued a circular (ARC 
404) giving Suggestions for Christmas Packets For Our Men at Horne 
and Abroad. Lists of articles are named and careful directions given 
for packing. 

To correct some misunderstandings the Red Cross makes the follow- 
ing announcement. 

The Red Cross has an absolute rule about parties and entertainments 
given for its benefit. No Red Cross emblem or name can be used in 
announcements or advertisements of such affairs unless the entire pro- 
ceeds are to be devoted to the Red Cross. The entire proceeds, not net 
or half. 

Red Cross uniforms at such entertainments must not be worn except 
by those members of the Red Cross who are also authorized members 
of one of the regular uniformed Red Cross corps. 



EDITORIAL 



Food for France Fund. Many people have been asking for an op- 
portunity to give food products to the soldiers, but up to this time there 
has no way been found to take these homemade things directly to the 
men in the trenches. Now the Food for France Fund is asking for the 
following products: 



LIST OF FOODS NEEDED 



Butter in Tins 

Meat Juice 

Cocoa 

Green Coffee 

Dried Vegetables 

Chocolate 

Dried Chicory 

Preserves 

Dried Beans and Peas 

Flours 



Canned Vegetables 
(Peas, Beans, Toma- 
toes, etc). 

Animal Fats 

Oil 

Canned Hams 

Condensed Milk 

Salted and Smoked 
Bacon 

Macaroni 



Noodles 

Vermicelli 

Split Peas 

Dried Fruits 

Prunes 

Rice 

Lard 

Canned Salmon 

Sugar 

Tapioca 

Note: If you wish to give anything not mentioned, please advise. 

Housekeepers who have a little time to use in this way may send their prod- 
ucts directly to this Fund, and so reach the soldiers whom they want to 
help. This is a dhance for personal service that has been sought by many 
who have time and surplus material, and who may now carry out the plan 
which they themselves have suggested. Why could not home economics stu- 
dents have old-fashioned apple paring bees, or get-together groups for drying 
fruit? Any who do not wish to send the food may send instead money to 
purchase it. 

The Committee of the Food For France Fund guarantee that the money 
you donate will be spent entirely for foodstuffs, with no reservation for any 
form of commission or executive or running expense. The kinds of foods 
purchased will be determined always by cable instructions as to immediate 
needs direct from Minister Godart's department. These goods will be shipped 
by the most direct channels to the Service de Sant6 in Paris, from where they 
will be immediately distributed to the neediest hospitals. A member of our 
American Committee consults with the Service de Sant6 in Paris. 

Our appeal does not conflict with the work of any other Committee sending 
food to France, as we supply through direct oflScial channels the military 
hospitals. 

Carita Spencer, Chairman, 10 East 58th Street, New York, N. Y., Ap- 
pointed Delegate Extraordinary by Minister Justin Godart, Under-Secretary of 
State and Head of the French Service de SaniS. 

Checks payable to Alexander J. HemphiU, Treasurer, Food for France 
Fund, 10 East 58th Street, New York. 

479 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ANNOUNCEMENTS 

Members of the American Home Economics Association are invited 
to attend the eighth annual meeting of the American Association for 
Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality to be held at the Jefferson 
Hotel, Richmond, Va., October 15 to 17, 1917. 

The program has been arranged with special reference to war needs. 
Some of the subjects that are scheduled for discussion include : 

How the Pediatrician and the Obstetrician can Cooperate in Reduc- 
ing the Mortahty in the First Month of Life. Prenatal Care. 

Care of Children of Pre-School Age. 

Birth Registration: Registration and Certification from the View- 
point of War's Demands. 

Definite War Programs for the Reduction of Infant Mortality. 

Special Problems of Obstetrical and Infant Care in Rural Com- 
munities in War Time. 

Red Cross Town and Country Nursing Service for Infant and 
Maternal Welfare. 

Problems in Nursing and Social Work that have arisen in connec- 
tion with infant welfare work, and the way they are being solved. 

Public School Education for the Prevention of Infant MortaUty. 

(1) PossibiHties and limitations of elementary school instruction 

in the care of infants. 

(2) Extension courses in public schools for adult women in the 

care and feeding of children. 

(3) Education of college and university women for giving in- 

struction in the care of the health of mothers and children. 

Venereal Disease and Infant Mortality: Prevention of Venereal Dis- 
ease as a War Measure. 

Programs and other information in regard to the meeting can be 
secured from the Executive Secretary, Miss Gertrude B. Knipp, 1211 
Cathedral Street, Baltimore, Md. 

The American Public Health Association has changed the place of 
its annual meeting from New Orleans to Washington, D. C. The ten- 
tative dates are October 17 to 20, immediately following the meeting 
noted above. The central theme of the meeting will be the welfare 
of the soldiers, sailors, and civilians in time of war. Programs will 
soon be available, and may be obtained from the Acting Secretary, 
Mr. A. W. Hedrick, 126 Massachusetts Avenue, Boston, Mass. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Vocational Mathematics for Girls. By Wil- 
liam H. DooLEY. New York: D. C. 
Heath and Company, 1917, pp. 369. 
$1.28. By mail of the Journal, $1.38. 

To the teacher of home economics, the 
appearance of a book devoted to vocational 
mathematics for girls is an event of no 
little importance. The fact that the author 
has attempted to bring together "samples of 
problems from all occupations that women 
are likely to enter, from the textile mills 
to the home" is a hopeful indication of a 
new attitude towards the education of girls, 
even if it may seem a little over sanguine 
to include in the list such topics as plumb- 
ing and hydraulics, commercial electricity 
and house construction. 

The book is almost encyclopedic in its 
scope. For this reason we shall confine our 
attention to the two sections that are of 
immediate concern to the home economics 
teacher, Part II, "Problems in Home 
Making," and Part III, "Problems in Dress- 
making and Milliner>'." Here there are 
"samples of problems" on such important 
topics as budgets and accounts, food and 
dietetics, fuel for light, heat, and power, 
and estimation of the amount and cost of 
material for garments and hats. The col- 
lection is extensive. One might wish that 
the problems had been selected or classified 
with reference to the same economic group. 
For instance, standards for the division of 
the income have been given for incomes of 
$750 only, yet the problems in other chapters 
would be suitable only for families with 
much larger incomes, families that buy 
"mahogany furniture," "bouillon cups," 
"telephone stands," "electric irons," "chif- 
fon scarfs," and invest in "stocks, bonds, 
mortgages, and insurance." 



The chapter devoted to foods, a topic of 
special interest during the present crisis, is 
an attempt to treat dietetic computation in 
accordance with the modem theory of nu- 
trition. Unfortunately, this has not been 
done with suflacient thoroughness or skill 
to make it entirely satisfactory. In the 
first place, the problems are somewhat dis- 
connected. Thus a student is required to 
"find the number of ounces of protein in a 
pound and a half of dried beef" without 
making any use of the result. Then, the 
problems are not always of practical value. 
Thus, a girl is asked "how many cups 56 
tablespoons of baking soda will fill," whether 
or not such a problem bears any reference to 
family cookery. Even the methods of com- 
putation are not always practical, as, for 
instance, when a student is expected to 
find the "fuel value of a pound of lard from 
the fuel value of a teaspoon," regardless of 
the fact that a teaspoon is at best an ap- 
proximate measure. The amount of pro- 
tein is figured in pounds instead of in grams 
or Calories, and the computation of the 
fuel value of menus by means of the 100 
Calorie portion, a method that has the 
sanction of such eminent authorities as 
Professor Rose and Professor Fisher, has 
been entirely omitted. 

The chapter on fuel for light and heat 
contains valuable information and practical 
problems, although there is some confusion 
between problems for the homemaker, the 
commercial user, and the house bmlder. In 
the chapter on house furnishings the tables 
on the cost of the furniture, china, and 
kitchen ware offer an opportunity for the 
study of various sociological problems. 
The section devoted to dressmaking and 
millinery offers a variety of problems, 

481 



482 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



some of which are suitable for the home, 
others for the trade. This section might 
have been more useful if the line of distinc- 
tion had been drawn a little more sharply. 

Yet in spite of its shortcomings, the book 
will undoubtedly receive a cordial welcome 
as a pioneer attempt to bring together the 
available material for teaching girls the 
arithmetic of every day affairs. 

Since it is in so many respects a first 
attempt, it is ine\'itable that the first 
edition should contain some inaccuracies. 
The statement in a reference table that 
"1 gram of protein yields 4100 Calories" is 
evidently an error in the decimal point. 
Other careless errors have crept in, as, for 
instance, in the problems on the fuel value 
of food, "I teaspoon of lard" (instead of 2) 
"I cup of skimmed milk" (instead of 1|), 
"J of a medium sized egg" (instead of 1 to 
1^) are said to yield 100 Calories. A simi- 
lar error is to be found in the rule for bias in 
which it is stated that "the length of a 
bias strip is about ^ (instead of |) longer 
than the width of the goods." Such errors 
can readily be corrected by any teacher 
familar with the subject. The teacher will 
also probably wish to substitute current 
market prices for those used in the table of 
the comparative cost of Joods, in which 
round of beef is quoted at from 12 to 16 
cents, stew meat at 5 cents, butter 20 to 
30 cents a pound, and milk at 6 to 7 cents a 
quart, — prices that have not prevailed for 
many years. 

She may also wish to add some problems 
in which the girls compile their own data 
and apply to their own home problems the 
principles that they have been studying in 
regard to budget making, dietetics, the 
estimation of the cost of materials for gar- 
ments, and the keeping of accounts. 

One is inclined to think that the book 
might have been more valuable to the 
teacher if it were based on a more critical 
analysis of a smaller number of occupations, 
with a wider range of choice in problems and 
a more logical development of each topic. 
Bu it will be of interest to teachers of home 
economics, not only because it is one of the 



first attempts to collect the arithmetical 
problems of home making, but because it 
indicates how much material is available 
for use as soon as mathematics teachers are 
ready to discard traditions and select their 
problems from the home and the vocation. 
Katharine F. Ball, 
University of Minnesota. 

The Healthful House. By Lionel Robert- 
son and T. C. O'Donnell. Battle 
Creek, Mich.; Good Health Publishing 
Company, 1917, pp. 191. $2.00. 

As is stated in the preface, the putpose of 
this book, "is to emphasize the health im- 
portance of beautiful colors, beautiful lines 
and masses, beautiful waU and floor cover- 
ings, equally with fresh air and light — to 
present to the reader, in short, a house that 
is healthful because it satisfies the demands 
of hygienic and esthetic sense alike." 

In chapter one, the introduction, the 
authors discuss the need of rest and repose 
in the healthful house. This can be ob- 
tained by: first, a study of the laws govern- 
ing the use of form, outline, and color; 
second, a speaking acquaintance with one's 
own temperament; third, the knowledge 
that the character of the life to be lived in 
the house must be expressed by the intelli- 
gent use of form, outline, and color. 

Chapter two gives a very practical dis- 
cussion of the principles of beauty. 

Of special interest is the discussion of the 
use of indirect lighting in the average home. 

The feeling for direction or movement of 
line in outline is the basis for the selection 
and placing of furniture, the sequence of 
rooms, and the designs of staircases. Color 
plays a vital part in the comfort and rest- 
fulness of our homes, therefore the percep- 
tions should be trained to respond to its 
harmonies. — "Healthy vigorous life will 
naturally express itself in rich colors, so 
that the colors with which one surrounds 
himself might almost be used as an indica- 
tion of his state of health and of his atti- 
tude toward life." 

Chapter three treats of backgrounds, 



1917] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



483 



including in that term walls and floors. In 
this chapter as in the next four chapters the 
relation is shown between the practical 
and the esthetic, and the effect of both upon 
health. The following topics are included 
in these chapters: the House Harmonious, 
On Purchasing Furniture, On Choosing the 
Site, and Of What Material. 

Chapters seven and eight present up-to- 
date facts concerning Heating, Ventilating, 
and the Dustless House. 

Chapters ten to sixteen inclusive discuss 
the various rooms of the house, including. 
Basement, Entrance, Living Room, Dining 
Room, Kitchen, Bedroom, and Bath Room. 

In these chapters, no attempt is made to 
classify furniture and rugs upon the historic 
basis. The basis of selection for each room 
is the intelligent use of the principles of 
beauty and the principles oif hygiene. 
Ethelwyn Miller, 
University of Chicago. 

The Prevention of Disease. By Kenelm 
WiNSLOW, M.D., Philadelphia and Lon- 
don: W. B. Saunders Company, 1916, pp. 
348. $1.75. By mail of the Journal, 
$1.87. 

Preventive medicine is no longer an idle 
expression of interest in the elimination of 
disease. It is a real force breaking down 
the traditions and mysterious medical laws 
of the past, and constructively building up 
a subject matter of paramount importance 
in the protection of human life. 

Dr. Winslow has written a concise prac- 
tical book which is accurate in fact, care- 
fully written and, withal, more interesting 
than the usual volumes purporting to deal 
with this subject. 

It is a guide book and not a book of 
reference, a book to be read and not to be 
placed upon the shelf for occasional consul- 
tation. 

A number of the chapters are headed by 
introductory notes from the pens of eminent 
men with a purpose of giving character to 
the author and lending support to the scien- 
tific facts contained in the special chapter. 
Such backing up is hardly required and 



appears somewhat puerile in a popular 
scientific work where the author soon 
indicates whether or not he possesses the 
fundamental knowledge warranting the 
writing of the book. 

Whether writing on personal hygiene, 
germ diseases, food poisoning, the disorders 
of nutrition, or the prevention of diseases of 
children. Dr. Winslow has been moderate in 
his statements, well balanced in his dis- 
cussions, and thoroughly conscientious in 
his presentation of the truths of preventive 
medicine as accepted today. 

Ira S. Wile, M.D. 

American Red Cross Text Book on Home 
Dietetics. By Ada Z. Fish. Philadel- 
phia: P. Blakiston's Son & Company, 
1917, pp. 118. $.75. By mail of the 
Journal, $.79. 

The author of this book attempted a hard 
task in trying to cover the subject of Home 
Dietetics in fifteen lessons with a total of 
133 pages. Some idea of the scope of these 
lessons may be gained from the list of sub- 
jects: I. Hygiene of Food; II. Nutrients; 
III. Meat and Fish; IV. Milk and Eggs; 
V. Cereals — General Discussion; VI. Cereals 
— Bread Making; VII. Meat Substitutes — 
Cheese, Legumes, and Nuts; VIII. Vege- 
tables and Fruits; IX. Digestion; X. Fuel 
Value and Dietary Standards; XI. BUl-of- 
Fare Making; XII. Serving the Family 
Meals; XIII. Food for Infants and Young 
Children ;vXIV. Food for School; XV. Food 
for the Sick. With such a range of sub- 
jects covered in such short space, each must 
necessarily be given inadequate discussion. 
Digestion, for example, is disposed of in 
three pages. We assume that this brief 
treatment was not a matter of choice with 
the author. 

AH the lessons except the first are followed 
by exercises in practical cookery. It is to 
be regretted that the opportunity has been 
lost to make a real and evident connection 
between the material discussed in the so- 
called theoretical portion and the practical 
work. 

Thirty-six of the one hundred and thirteen 



484 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

pages are devoted to recipes. This seems 22, 27, 36, 52, 106, and 112. There are 

unfortunate where the space available is so several places where the proofreading seems 

limited, and especially when the recipes not to have been done carefully, 
are readily available from sources close at After reading this book we are a little at 

hand and in what seems to the reviewer a loss to understand just what is the field 

a better form than they are presented here. that "Home Dietetics" is intended to cover. 

There is unnecessary repetition that ought From the standpoint of workers in dietetics, 

especially to be avoided when there is it seems unfortunate that the Red Cross 

little space; e.g., nearly all the recipes are has chosen to treat the subject in what 

repeated, first in famUy and then in in- seems so inadequate a way. 
dividual sizes. In some cases mistakes have Louise Stanley. 

been made in reducing the recipes. See pp. University of Missouri. 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

American Red Cross Text Book on Home Dietetics. By Ada Z. Fish. Philadelphia: P. 

Blakiston's Son & Company, 1917, pp. 118. $0.75. By mail of the Journal, $0.79. 
Better Meals for Less Money. By Mary Green, New York: Henry Holt and Company, 

1917, pp. 295. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.35. 
The Charity Visitor, a Handbook for Beginners. By Amelia Sears. Chicago: Chicago 

School of Civics and Philanthropy. New and revised edition, 1917, pp. 69. Paper, 

$0.50. By mail of the Journal, $0.54. 
Community Center Activities. By Clarence Arthur Perry. Department of Recreation, 

Russell Sage Foundation, New York City, 1916, pp. 127. $0.35. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, $0.40. 
Constructive Seranng. Book II. By Mary E. Fuller. Indianapolis: Industrial Book and 

Equipment Company, 1917, pp. 83. Paper, $0.60. By mail of the Journal, $0.65. 
The Home and Its Management. By Mabel Hyde Kittredge. New York: The Century 

Company, 1917, pp. 385. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.62. 
The Manual Arts. By Charles A. Bennett. Peoria, 111.: The Manual Arts Press, 1917, pp. 

116. $1.00 By mail of the Journal, $1.05. 
A Manual of Household Accounts. By J. Chester Crandell, C. P. A. and Mercy Frye Cran- 

dell. Boston: Whitcomb and Barrows, 1917, pp. 24 plus ruled account pages. $2.00. 

By mail of the Journal, $2.13. 
The Modern Milk Problem. By J. Scott MacNutt. New York: The Macmillan Company, 

1917, pp. 258. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, $2.12. 
1000 Things Mothers Should Know. By Mae Savell Croy. New York: G. P. Putnam's 

Sons, 1917, pp. 296. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 
Proceedings, Tenth Annual Meeting of the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial 

Education. Issued by the N. 8. P. I. E., 140 W. 42nd Street, New York City, 1917, 

pp. 311. 
Training the Children. By James L. Hughes. New York and Chicago: The A S. Barnes 

Company, 1917, pp. 148. $0.60. By mail of the Journal, $0.64. 
Transactions of the Seventh Annual Meeting of the American Association for Study and Pre- 
vention of Infant Mortality. Published by A. A. S. P. I. M., 1211 Cathedral Street, 

Baltimore, 1917, pp. 364. $3.00 and postage. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 485 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Public Health Service, Washington, D. C: 
Third Report of the Commission on Milk Standards. Reprint No. 386. 
Flight of Mosquitoes. By J. A. A. Le Prince and T. H. D. Griffith. Reprint No. 396. 
Laundries and the Public Health. By M. C. Schroeder and S. G. Southerland. Reprint 
No. 385. 

Issued by the Department of Food Sanitation and Distribution of the Women's Munici- 
ipal League of Boston: 

Housing of Food Stuffs in Small Provision Stores. Bulletin 8, No. 4, March, 1917. 
Also a number of circulars, prepared chiefly by Simmons College alumnae, dealing with 

drying and canning of fruits and vegetables, jelly making, the economical preparation 

of food, and the use of substitutes for scarce food products. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 

Preservation of Food. Agricultural Division, Ohio Branch, Council of National Defense. 

Food Economy for the Housewife. The State College of Washington, Pullman, Wash. $0.25. 

Food Values, Economical Menus. By Alice Bradley. Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, 
Boston, Mass. $0.25. 

Home Canning. The Connecticut Agricultural College Extension Service, Storrs, Conn. 
Home Canning Bulletin No. 4. 

Household Accounting. By Laura Comstock. Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture, 
Boston. 

Household Arts. Teachers Manual and Course of Study. Bulletin No. 29, 1916. Massa- 
chusetts Board of Education, Boston. 

Kansas Mothers' Book. By Lydia De Vilbiss, M.D., Kansas State Board of Health, Di- 
vision of Child Hygiene, Topeka, Kans. 

Meals for Harvest Time. By Jen L. Cox. Home Economics Bulletin I, Kansas State 
Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kans. 

Timely Suggestions and Economical Recipes. Department of Home Economics, Drexel 
Institute. 10 cents. 

Utilization of Food. Receipes prepared by the Home Economics Department, Ohio State 
University. Issued by Agricultural Division Ohio Bftinch, Council of National Defense. 

What is the Smith-Hughes Bill? Bulletin No. 25, National Society for the Promotion of 
Industrial Education, 140 West 42d Street. New York City. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

The bibliography this month is selected from the less technical magazines. All are 1917 
issues unless otherwise stated. 

Bread in Wartime. William L. Stoddard, Good Housekeeping, July. 

What Must I Do? (Prepared in the office of the Food Administration.) Womans Home 
Companion, September. 

High Cost of Living. David Starr Jordan, Sunset Magazine, April. 

What It Costs to Live. William B. Wilson, Independent, February 26. 

High Cost of Living: a Partial Solution. Dudley B. Palmer, Outlook, March 14. 

The Cost of Roast Pig. H. P. Armsby, Science, August 17. 

Reducing the Cost of Living. H. K. Orr, Home Progress, May. 

Eat and Save Money; Some Simple Facts about Diet. Charles P. Gushing, World's 
Work, June. 



486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Economical Ration for the Times. Charles Bolduan, Scientific American, December 9, 
1916. 

Food Values. Graham Lusk, Science, April 13. 

Measured Meals for Girls and Boys. William R. P. Emerson, Good Housekeeping, April. 

Do You Eat Enough Roughage? A. R. Reynolds, American Magazine, March. 

What We Eat; and WTiat Happens To It. P. B. Hawk, Ladies Home Journal, Novem- 
ber and December, 1916; January, February, April, May, June and August, 1917. 

"WTiat to Eat in Wartime. Graham Lusk, World's Work, August. 

The High Cost of Waste. William C. Redfield, Pictorial Review, September. 

Bureaucracy and Food Control. William C. Edgar, Reviru) of Reviews, June. 

Need of Food Thrift. Charles L. Pack, Outlook, June 13. 

Service Army — Food Economy and the Elementary School. E. B. Kent, Industrial 
Arts Magazine, July. 

Wartime Diet. Harvey W. Wiley, Good Housekeeping, June. 

Waste Not, Want Not; an Interview with the United States Food Administrator. D. 
Wilhelm, Independent, June 9. 

Conser\'ation of Food. Dr. J. A. Wessner and George L. Teller, The Modern Hospital, 
July, August, and September. 

High Cost of Food — Causes and Remedies. John J. Dillon, Review of Reviews, February. 

High Food Prices and Their Causes. David S. Kennedy, Review of Reviews, January. 

Keeping Down Food Costs. H. C. Douglas, Ijidependenl, May 12. 

People's Markets. M. M. Marks, Indepetident, March 12. 

Woman's Wit Pitted Against High Food Prices. K. Halsted, Ladies Home Journal, April. 

War, Patriotism, and the Food Supply. Frederick V. Coville, National Geographic 
Magazine, March. 

Food Problem: Waste in Hotels. J. C. WoodhuU, Outlook, March 14. 

How Much Food Shall I Buy for the Family's Three Meals? Alice Bradley, Woman's 
Home Companion, September. 

Home Economics and Public Health. Winifred S. Gibbs, Survey, December 23, 1916. 

Housewife and the Eight-hour Day. Harvey W. Wiley, Good Housekeeping, January. 

Unit Courses in Household Science for Montclair Housewives and Maids. S. H. Bridge, 
Industrial Arts Magazine, January. 

Cost of Educating the Underfed. I. S. Wile, School and Society, December 30, 1916. 

Problems of Human Nutrition. A. E. Gibson, Scientific American, Supplement, Janu- 
ary 20. 

The Bacteriology of Foods. Edwin C. Jordan, American Food Journal, May. 
Training of Gkls and Women for Trade and Industry. Mary Schenck Woolman, Indus- 
trial Arts Magazine, September. 

Honor System of Eating in England. Ruth W. Kauffman, Outlook, August 1. 

Wherein Food Madness Lies. John W. Harrington, New York Evening Post Magazine, 
August 11. 

What We Women Should Do. ' Jeannette Rankin, Ladies Home Journal, August. 

Don't Make These Mistakes; An Appeal From One Who Knows to Every Patriotic 
Woman in America. Lord Northcliffe, Ladies Home Journal, September. 

Enough and None To Spare. Hugh J. Hughes, Reviews of Reviews, August. 

Food or Famine. J. Russell Smith, Century, September. 

The Economics of Purchasing. Marion Parris Smith, Jotirnal of Association of Collegiate 
Alumnae, February. 

Maiding with Maids. Laura Belle Stephens, Journal of Association of Collegiate Alum- 
nae, April. 

Budget for Three. S. Chase, Good Housekeeping Magazine, May. 

Food Budget in a Delaware Home. Mrs. J. B. Baxter, Ladies Home Journal, February. 

Keeping Household Accounts. R. Hamilton, Good Housekeeping, February. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fel- 
lowship oilered jointly by the Trustees of 
the Memorial Fund and the Universit}- of Chi- 
cago has been awarded to Minna G. Denton, 
S.B. and A.M., University of Michigan. 
Miss Denton's teaching experience at 
Milwaukee-Downer College, Lewis Insti- 
tute, and Ohio State University has been 
supplemented with research work as Fellow 
in Physiolog>' at the University of Chicago 
and in the preparation of various scientific 
papers. She is at present at work on a 
problem in food conservation, viz., "Altera- 
tions in Nutritive Value of Vegetable Foods 
Due to Boiling and Canning." The fellow- 
ship carries a stipend of $500 and tuition 
fees for the year 1917-18. 

The Federal Board for Vocational Edu- 
cation, provided for by the Smith-Hughes 
Bill to administer the funds appropriated 
by this bill, consists of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the 
Secretary of Labor, the United States Com- 
missioner of Education, and three citizens 
appointed by the President: Mr. James P. 
Monroe, of Massachusetts, Mr. Charles A. 
Greathouse, of Indiana, and Mr. Arthur 
Holden, of Iowa. 

The Board has chosen Mr. C. A. Prosser, 
formerly of the Dunwoody Industrial Insti- 
tute, Minneapolis, as Executive Officer, 
with five assistant directors : Miss Josephine 
Berry, of the University of Minnesota, 
representing Home Economics; Mr. Lay ton 
S. Haskins of New York, representing 
Agriculture; Mr. Lewis H. Carris of New 
Jersey, representing Industrial Education, 
and Mr. Charles H. Winslow of Indiana, 
representing Research. The assistant direc- 
tor for commercial education is not yet 
appointed. 

Miss Berry is on a six months' leave of 
absence from the University of Minnesota. 



Notes. Miss Mary Sweeney, of the 
University of Kentucky, is acting as chief 
of the Home Economics Section of the Food 
Administration for September and October. 
Miss Isabel Bevier, of the University of 
Illinois, is to serve for November and 
December. 

It has been planned that representative 
women from different colleges shall hold 
this position for two months at a time, thus 
bringing Home Economics workers from 
each section of the country into close rela- 
tion with the Food Administration. The 
permanence of the work is to be maintamed 
by the appointment of an executive secre- 
tary. 

Miss Marlatt has returned to her work in 
Wisconsin, but still holds the chairmanship 
of the advisory committee. 

Miss Anna Barrows is to give several 
months to the work of the Office of Exten- 
sion Work, North and West, States Rela- 
tions Service. She will be part of the time 
in Washington and part "on the road." 

Miss Edith Guerrier, of the Boston Public 
Library, who organized the Food Facts Cen- 
ter in Boston, and who is in charge of a 
branch library in the ItaHan district, is in 
Washington for two months to develop the 
Food Conservation Library estabhshed by 
the Home Economics Section of the Food 
Administration. Miss Guerrier, in connec- 
tion with her social service work, founded 
the well known Paul Revere Pottery. 

Miss Katharine Blunt is to be in the Office 
of Home Economics, United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, for four months from 
September 1 to January 1 to direct the prep- 
aration of a mmiber of emergency food 
leaflets for extension teaching. She is work- 
ing in cooperation with extension workers 
from different sections of the country. 

487 



488 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



The following appointments have been 
made at the University of Chicago: Susan- 
nah B. Usher, well known for her work in 
home economics, and Evel>'n G. Halliday, 
in the Department of Home Economics; and 
Clara B. Knapp, in the Department of 
Household Arts. John Foote Norton, for 
some years in charge of the courses formerly 
given by Mrs. Richards, has left the Massa- 
chusetts Institute of Technology to be 
Assistant Professor of Hygiene and Bac- 
teriology. 

Mr. H. L. Lang, who has assisted in pre- 
paring the Bibliography for the Journal 
has left the Ofl5ce of Home Economics, 
United States Department of Agriculture, 
to take a position as Assistant Professor of 
Biology and Public Health in the Carnegie 
Institute, Pittsburgh. Mr. Lang is particu- 
larly interested in the relation between 
Home Economics and public health ques- 
tions. 

The work of the research department of 
the Women's Educational and Industrial 
Union has begun for the year. The depart- 
ment is cofiperating with the home eco- 
nomics division of the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture in securing material for 
a national dietary survey, the results of 
which are to be used in connection with 
the national problems of food production 
*nd food conservation. 

Mrs. Lucinda Wyman Prince, director 
of education of the National Retail Dry 
Goods Association and director of the 
teachers' training class in Simmons College, 
Boston, has volunteered her services to the 
United States Food Administration and 
has been appointed executive secretary in 
charge of instruction in food conser\'ation 
in stores. 

Miss Emma Francis, formerly instructor in 
Michigan Agricultural College, is doing re- 
search work for Battle Creek Sanitarium, and 
teaching biology in the Home Economics 
School there. 



Prof. E. V. McCoUum -,1 the University 
of Wisconsin, has gone to Johns Hopkins 
University to take charge of the depart- 
ment of chemistrj^ of the new school of 
hygiene and public health, established by 
the Rockefeller Foundation in connection 
with the medical school. 

The office of the secretary of the National 
Education Association has been transferred 
from Ann Arbor, Michigan, where it has 
been for many years, to 1400 Massachu- 
setts Avenue, Washington, D. C. The 
new Secretary is J. W. Crabtree. 

A Dietitians Conference is to be held 
in Cleveland, October 18-20. JMiss Graves, 
Temporary Chairman. 

On Thursday afternoon there will be an 
address by Mrs. Caroline Bartlett Crane, 
Women's Council of National Defense. The 
evening program will include the following: 

Economical Buying, Miss Mable Little, 
Director of University Dining Hall, Cor- 
nell University; Discussion, Dr. Teck; 
Round Table — Food Conservation, led by 
Miss Lenna Cooper, Dietitian, Battle Creek 
Sanitarium. 

Friday morning will be given to the sub- 
ject of Food and Nutrition: Infant Feeding, 
Dr. Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois; 
Adaption of Foreign Cookery to American 
Cookery, Dr. Nolan, Editor of Interstate 
Medical Journal; Vitamines, Dr. Amy Dan- 
iels, University of Wisconsin. 

The evening will be given to Institutional 
Management: Hotel Management, Mr. 
Willy, of the Hotel Monthly; The Dietitiar 
and Her Equipment, Miss Louise Pollock, 
Dietitian, St, Louis City Hospital. 

Saturday's program is as follows: 

Morning. Diet in Disease: What Lab- 
oratory Reports should Mean to the Dieti- 
tian, Dr. Lewis, Battle Creek Sanitarium; 
The Red Cross Dietitian, Miss Elva A. 
George, Dietitian, Bureau of Instruction, 
Washington, D. C. 

Afternoon. The Dietitian as the Doctor's 
Assistant, Miss Lulu Graves, Dietitian, 
Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland; Discussion, 
Miss Rena Eckman. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX NOVEMBER, 1917 No. 11 



CAN THIS ASSOCIATION HELP TO REDUCE THE DEATH 
RATE AMONG CHILDREN?^ 

MRS. MAX WEST 
Children's Bureau, United Stales Department of Labor 

It is pleasant indeed to have my subject in the fonn of a question to 
which I am able to return an unqualified affirmative reply, with little 
fear of provoking argument. There is so much that this Association 
may do to reduce the death rate among children; to cut down illness and 
suffering; to prevent pain and loss; to reinforce and build up health; to 
strengthen and uphold the hands of the Government and to multiply 
ten thousandfold the happiness and efficiency of the people of this coun- 
try, that the magnitude of the opportunity is at once baffling and in- 
spiring. It baffles because one hardly knows where first to take hold; 
what are the best measures to adopt; how to persuade people to adopt a 
concerted plan, and not waste time, effort, and money in doing things 
wrong and then undoing and doing them over, if it is not too late. It 
inspires because such a task would be supremely well worth doing at 
any time and under any circumstances ; but when at a momentous crisis 
in history it has suddenly become of infinitely greater importance than 
ever before, it is indeed a task to stir the most literal imagination and 
rouse the most sluggish spirit to unwonted activities. Even as I speak 
there is sitting in Washington a body of men and women eminent in 
health work, studying the very problems I have suggested, striving out 

1 Presented at the meeting of the American Home Economics Association held in connec- 
tion with the N. E. A., Portland, Ore., July, 1917. 

4S9 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOitfics [November 

of the chaos and bewilderment of this bewildering hour to learn how best 
to preserve the citizenship of our country by conserving our children.* 

It is not for me to dictate a program of work to this great body of 
educators and specialists, but perhaps I may be permitted to bring be- 
fore you some of the facts the Children's Bureau has gathered with re- 
spect to children and their needs, in the hope of suggesting to your com- 
mittee some practical lines of work. Perhaps I cannot do better than 
to lay before you first of all some of the general facts regarding children 
and child life. 

There are in this country about 30,000,000 children under fifteen 
years of age. When you consider that about one-third of the total 
population of the United States consists of persons who have not yet 
arrived at physical maturity, who are in need of protection against ill- 
ness, overwork, temptation, and vice; who must be fed, clothed, warmed, 
housed, and protected; who demand education and training; who must 
be safeguarded at every hand if they are to develop normally, you will 
readily see that the problem is not a small one either in size or complexity. 

The Children's Bureau was instructed by Congress "to investigate and 
report upon all matters pertaining to children and childlife among all 
classes of the people," — a task which in the short life of the Bureau has 
only been begun. 

Of the 30,000,000 children mentioned above, between 2,000,000 and 
3,000,000 are babies under one year of age— the weakest and tenderest 
section of our population and the class upon which life presses hardest 
and in which also the greatest waste of Hfe occurs. 

The first specific direction given by Congress and also the first field 
investigation undertaken by the Bureau was to study the causes of in- 
fant mortality in this country. The Bureau has completed a number of 
detailed studies in this subject in different locaHties, and while its inves- 
tigation is not yet complete certain facts have emerged from all the 
studies so far made which are not likely to be controverted, however far 
the examination proceeds. 

These two facts are that the fortunes of infant life are inextricably 
bound up with the economic condition of the family and with the edu- 
cational status of the mother. In other words, the fundamental condi- 
tions which kill thousands of babies every year aiid seriously weaken 
many thousands more are poverty and ignorance. 

2 Report of a committee on measures for the protection of children in war, time to the 
Council of National Defense. 



1917] DEATH RATE AMONG CHILDREN 491 

Our investigations, like others here and abroad, show conclusively 
that as the income of the family increases the infant death rate falls. 
The death rate is high in all the low income groups; it falls sharply as the 
incomes approach $800; and it tends to seek an average relatively low 
level after $1200 has been reached. The supreme necessity then for 
thousands and thousands of American families today is to be provided 
with an income which shall permit the mother to secure decent living 
conditions for her children and her family. 

The second great factor which affects infant life is the lack of funda- 
mental knowledge among mothers of the essentials of proper maternal 
and infant care. This condition of ignorance influences the problem of 
infant mortality in countless ways, but most especially with respect to 
infant feeding. Reports of the Children's Bureau upon infant mortality 
discuss this question at length.* 

Now, how can this Association help to cut down the number of these 
infant deaths and save thousands of potential citizens to lives of useful- 
ness? First by helping to cut down poverty and increase the resources 
of the family. That this is essentially the work of such an Association 
is indicated by its name. 

The work that you have been doing for at least a quarter of a century 
in the attempt to apply scientific knowledge to the problems of the 
home should by now begin to show itself in the increased efficiency of 
the average home. But it is much more necessary even in the un- 
average home, if I may so term it, — meaning that home where the home- 
maker working under the most unfavorable conditions is most in need 
of help, especially at this moment, for it is the poorest home and the 
poorest mother who will suffer most as the stringency of the war 
increases. 

All the present day emergency teaching in the conservation of foods 
and in their economical use and preparation in the home kitchen is a 
direct attack upon one of the most vital points in the strongholds of 
poverty, but it must be brought into thousands of homes where not 
even a beginning of such teaching has yet been made. 

Second, this association has a great work to do also in attacking the 
problems of ignorance, specifically ignorance in the care of babies and 
young children. A teacher of home economics who has not learned 
some of the fundamental principles of child hygiene and dietetics must 

» Infant Mortality Series, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

be baffled many times by the questions asked her. There can be little 
doubt that a coming development and expansion of your great and 
beneficent work will be to give home economics teachers the opportunity 
to study these subjects in college. But even now you can at least be 
the conveyors of helpful educational literature to the mothers with 
whom you come in contact. The Children's Bureau will be glad to tell 
you how to secure free pamphlet material which you can help to distrib- 
ute as you go about the country in your teaching work. 

It is to such a body as this, to teachers trained for the solution of the 
problems of the home, that the country must look for enormous help in 
the great questions which are before our country at all times, but which 
loom up in the present moment with a solemnity never before known. 
Upon every teacher of home economics is laid the responsibility of some 
part of this great work of education. She must accept hers as a divinely 
appointed mission to each individual mother in need of her help, to 
carry into every such home instruction that will serve to make that 
home better able to fight against its two arch-enemies — Poverty and 
Ignorance. 



THE HOUSING PROBLEM^ 

LAWRENCE VEILLER 

Secretary National Eousmg Association, New York City 

It is interesting to note that one of the earliest legislative committees 
in New York State, back in 1856, appointed to investigate tenement 
house conditions in New York, brought in a recommendation for better 
homes, and based the main argument for them on the fact that they 
would decrease the evil of intemperance; that if a man and a woman 
had a decent home, with decent cooking, there would be very much less 
temptation for the man to go to the corner grocery, as it was called in 
those days. Even then there was seen a vital connection between the 
home, the house, the domicile, and this important question of food. 

The housing problem is not a new problem, nor is it confined to America. 
It is a universal problem; it is as old as civilization. The nearest 

^ Presented at the Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association, 
Ithaca, 1916. 



1917] THE HOUSING PROBLEM 493 

early approach to present conditions such as we are familiar with in 
America, was found in Rome, and almost the very same problems that 
are met with today, were met with in Nero's time in Rome, and the same 
remedies were applied. It was found necessary, for instance, to limit 
the height of buildings, and the limit in Rome was almost identical to 
that adopted in most of the large cities of America. Many seem to 
think that the housing problem is a city problem; but it extends to 
the town, the suburb, the country, the prairie. I know of a case of 
thirteen people living in a house of one room on an open prairie where 
the nearest house is ten miles away. The problem of room over-crowd- 
ing or congestion is not due to any lack of space, or the high price of 
land. Those familiar with rural conditions know that in some cases 
the farmers' house is worse in its construction and its plan, than even 
the slum dweller's tenement home. The interior bed-room in the 
country house is due to the fact that the house was not built by an 
architect but just "grew" like Topsy. 

Briefly, what is the housing problem, and what are some of the housing 
conditions that should be considered by people who are leaders of thought 
in this work? A few of the main faults are: dark rooms, cellar or under- 
ground living apartments, privy vaults, filthy and dirty outhouses, bad 
drainages of yards, dilapidated buildings, room over-crowding, land 
over-crowding, sometimes taking in lodgers and boarders and breaking 
up the home. With the exception of land over-crowding every one of 
these faults is to be found in every kind of community, not only in the 
United States and Europe, but everywhere. There is no excuse for the 
building of houses with dark rooms, except the ignorance and stupidity 
on the part of the builder or the person planning the house. Often 
they do not reahze the consequence of dark rooms. Most people do 
not build their own homes. They have to rent and take the kind of 
accommodation that they can find that is vacant in the part of the city 
convenient to their business and occupation, and especially within their 
purse. The average working man probably does not have a wider range 
than a radius of six blocks from his work and when he does he looks for 
a house that rents for $12 or $16 or $20 a month. There is no considera- 
tion of whether the house is adequate or suited to his needs or a suitable 
place to bring up his children. We know that the darkroom, or possibly 
the over-crowded room, is the most important factor in relation to the 
tuberculosis problem. Studies made by experts show that the relation 
between room over-crowding and tuberculosis is intimate and direct, 



494 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

and that the death rate increases absolutely according to the number of 
rooms that the people occupy, being twice as great in one room apart- 
ments as in three room apartments, three times as great in districts 
where there is 35 per cent of over-crowding as compared with 10 per 
cent of over-crowding. The relationship of housing to other forms of 
disease is very great. 

There is no reason why people should live underground. But just 
as sure as there are underground living rooms, there will be people living 
in them because there are always people who will live in anything they 
can get; their standards are very low; their purses are small, and they 
must take what is available. By an underground residence is meant a 
portion of a story which is predominately underground, and where there 
are bound to be conditions of inadequate light and methods of living 
that are not good for the bringing up of a family. 

In New York fifteen years ago were found 361,000 windowless rooms 
in the homes of the poor. There is not a city in the United States today 
that does not have this problem. There are only three cities in the 
entire United States which forbid the erection of dark rooms in all kinds 
of dwellings. There are probably 100 cities which forbid it in tenement 
houses, but the dark room is just as deadly in a two-family house as in a 
three-family house. The first task that confronts all of those who are 
undertaking this gigantic question is to eliminate the dark rooms and 
to prevent the construction of any in the future. The former task is 
difiicult, for when a house is once built it cannot be remedied without 
tearing it down. In New York we could not make those 361,000 rooms 
light but we made them lighter. 

There is no factor in our American life today from the health point 
of view that is so potent a menace to the entire country as the presence 
in our various communities of large numbers of privy vaults or their 
various alternatives or variations. There are not a dozen cities in the 
United States where even the health officials know how many privy 
vaults there are. The city of St, Louis has 20,000 privy vaults, and 
Minneapohs has 17,000, Baltimore never had any sewer system until 
three or four years ago, and the ordinary slops from the wash tubs and 
kitchen sink went down on the surface from a little gutter on the side 
walk into the street gutter and the outlets from the water closets went 
into cess pools. Numerous other places where such conditions exist 
might be named. The vault is an indecency; it is a work of barbarism; 
it is far worse than that; it is a menace. 



1917] THE HOUSING PROBLEM 495 

It is often said that the working man should have a home with yard 
and garden, but it is better for him not to have it if it is just a waste 
space, littered with refuse such as slops, dead cats, ash heaps, and tin 
cans. That is a sort of thing which should not be allowed. Even if it 
is not true that a direct relation can be traced between dirt and disease, 
dirt is sordid. Sordidness of outlook and the presence of filth in back 
yards and cellar rooms has an extremely bad effect upon standards of 
living of the people and indirectly on their life. 

In considering the effect of housing on social disorder and crime, 
it is interesting to note that in two or three instances upon the occasion 
of big industrial strikes, when the investigations of the causes of the 
strikes were made, it was reported that the people lived under conditions 
that were not fit even for animals. Anyone who has had any occasion 
to look into the questions of milk production and the care of cattle 
knows that there is hardly a state in the United States which will allow 
cattle to be housed under the conditions under which human beings can 
be housed all over the country, the conditions under which hundreds of 
thousands of people are housed in the United States. 

The remedies for these conditions have not come over night; they 
have been of slow development. A great change cannot be hoped 
for in a few weeks, or months, or years, and one must set about 
removing the causes. These conditions are due to two basic causes, 
ignorance, and neglect — the ignorance and neglect of everyone who 
has not thought about these things, who has not cared; who has done 
nothing. The Russell Sage Foundation about three years ago started 
an inquiry among the municipal health oflSicers by a questionnaire, 
asking what they were doing in about eight broad phases of public health 
work, Hke infant welfare, and periodical sanitary inspection. The 
result of that inquiry was startling, and showed that pubHc health work 
in the United States was in its infancy. Those who have come in close 
contact with municipal health officers have realized that for some time. 
The average municipal health officer does not even know the facts. 
There is a class of health officers who think that housing is not their 
work. That class I am quite sure is diminishing. 

I commend to you the taking up of this large question of housing. 
Even if you cannot give it a predominant interest, you can begin it. 
Speaking on behalf of the National Housing Association, I pledge you 
our heartiest cooperation and welcome you with extended hands in the 
fight against slums. 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

A SUMMER COURSE AT HAMPTON 

CARRIE A. LYFORD 
Specialist in Home Economics, United States Bureau of Education 

This year for the first time a course in Institutional Management 
was held during the Summer School at Hampton. The class was made 
up of matrons who have charge of the dormitories and boarding clubs 
in private or public colored schools of the South. Representatives 
from ten States were present in the class. The General Education 
Board defrayed the traveling expenses of most of those in attendance. 
The schools from which the members came range in size from the 
small boarding school with fifteen resident pupils to schools caring for 
two hundred and fifty boarding students. 

The following course formed the basis for the daily two hour con- 
ferences that were held for four weeks: 

Lesson 1. The relation of home economics to food questions in 
dormitories. 

Lesson 2 and 3. What constitutes a well chosen ration: quality, 
quantity, and variety. 

Lesson 4. Cost of feeding: food service, fuel, overhead expense. 

Lesson 5. The problem of marketing: method of selection, whole- 
sale figures, contracts. 

Lesson 6. The problem of storage. 

Lesson 7. Kitchen equipment: labor saving devices. 

Lessons 8 and 9. Sanitation in the kitchen: control of insect pests, 
disposal of garbage. 

Lessons 10 and IL Table equipment and service, table etiquette. 

Lesson 12. Equipment of rooms. 

Lesson 13. Sanitation of dwelling and surroundings, disinfectants. 

Lesson 14. Care of halls, parlors, bath rooms, and other rooms. 

Lesson 15. Laundry management: institutional and personal. 

Lesson 16. Kitchen gardens: seasonal vegetables, flowers for table 
decoration. 

Lesson 17. Working schedules. 

Lesson 18. Accounting and keeping of records. 

Lesson 19. Cooperation between matron and general teaching 
force. 

Lesson 20. Discipline. 



1917] SCORE CARD FOR HOME ECONOMICS ENGLISH 497 

The first portion of the course was devoted to a study of the food 
problem as it presents itself to those who are required to provide an 
adequate diet for the growing girl or boy at an average of from eight 
to fifteen cents a meal. Local conditions were carefully considered. 
Necessity for the utihzation of products of the school garden and of 
those food products that come from the homes of the girls in lieu of 
board was recognized. 

The use of the dormitory as a practice laboratory for the students 
while receiving their training in home economics was kept in mind 
throughout the discussions. 

The dormitories, kitchens, and dining rooms at Hampton Institute 
were visited to illustrate the various points discussed. 

In addition to the course in Institutional Management the matrons 
were asked to take the course in cooking, planned to emphasize the 
essential points in food conservation, and the course in hygiene which 
was based on the study of the physical needs of the boys and girls of 
school age. 



A SCORE CARD FOR HOME ECONOMICS ENGLISH 

ANNA MAUD EARHART 

BeHeving strongly in the correlation of courses, I welcomed the intro- 
duction of the illustrated talk into the English course for home econom- 
ics students at Iowa State College. As I was planning my work, the 
score card used in the demonstration classes in home economics 
suggested possibilities, and guided somewhat by it I arranged for the 
freshman composition classes the outline given below. Since my pur- 
pose was to lead toward a standard for the preparation and criticising 
of the talks, the suggestions adapted from Sarcey were added. 

The outline has proved of use both in preparation of assignment and 
in class. It is discussed and then given to the students as a guide in 
preparing the talks. When the talks are given, it is of service in secur- 
ing definite criticism from the class and, through this, the development 
of discrimination. With this end in view, I call upon different girls to 
comment upon the strong and the weak points of the talk given. This 



498 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

may be varied by assigning points to different giris before hand. At 
other times, numerical values are given to the main points, and the 
class is called upon to score. As a last exercise on this work, each girl 
is asked to write a criticism of one of the talks, the outline being her 
guide. 

POINTS TO BE CONSIDERED IN ORAL COMPOSITION 

I. Essentials of the talk as a whole. 

A. Amount and value of subject matter. 

B. Clear and logical development. 

C. Accuracy of statement. 

D. Spiciness. 

Effectiveness of illustrative stories, comparisons, apt quotations. 
TI. Details of composition. 

A. The Paragraph. 

1. An adequate topic sentence. 

2. Establishment of the thought contained in the topic. 

3. Application of the thought contained in the topic. 

B. Sentence structure. 

1. Compound. 

a. Placing of ideas of equal rank in coordinate clauses. 

b. Proper conjunctions. 

2. Complex. 

a. Placing of main idea in main clause. 

b. Proper conjunctions. 

3. Simple. 

Its use in giving simplicity, emphasis, and sentence variety. 

C. Transition. 

1. Between paragraphs. 

2. Between sentences. 

D. Introduction and conclusion. 

1. Adequateness to subject matter. 

2. Appropriateness to occcasion. 

E. Avoidance of grammatical errors. 

F. Choice of words. 

1. Good usage. 

2. Effectiveness. 

a. Conveyance of exact meaning. 

b. Forcefulness. 

c. Suggestive power. 
in. Details of presentation. 

A. Appearance. 

B. Delivery. 

1. Poise. 

2. Effectiveness. 

rV. Additional details of presentation for the illustrated talks. 

A. Illustrative material. 

1. Adequateness. 

2. Effectiveness. 

B. Manipulation of material. 



1917] THE COST OF WOMEN'S CLOTHES 499 

SUGGESTIONS FOR LECTURING 

Adapted from Fraticisgue Sarcey. 

The first condition in giving a lecture is to have something to say. 
"To make a hare-ragout," says La Cuisiniere Bourgeoise, "first catch 
your hare;" a good hare-ragout cannot be made of a rabbit's tail. 

Be assured that there will be nothing good in your lecture but what 
you shall have thought for yourself, and what you shall have thought 
for yourself will have always a certain seal of originality. 

When once you are in possession of your subject, and of the ideas 
that it has suggested, you then must classify and arrange them; that 
is the work of composition. I know none more important or more 
difficult. 

I permit you only one note, but that I counsel you to bring and keep 
open on your table. It ought to be contained in a little scrap of paper 
as large as your hand. This note is the plan of the lecture. There are 
three or four points which the lecture should touch successively, and 
which form, as it were, its skeleton; these points can be fixed by two 
words, let us say a Hne of writing, if you wish to give full measure. 
You will rarely have need of the scrap of paper, but it is a security to 
know it is there. 

Speak from behind a table even though (according to the rules I have 
laid down) you have no notes to read. One is sustained by the table 
and brought around to the conversational tone. 

All the rest can be put into one sentence, "Be yourself." It is 
understood, is it not, that it is necessary first to be some one? 



THE COST OF WOMEN'S CLOTHES 

J. L. ASHLOCK 

State College of Washington, Pullman 

A " textile convention" held by the home economics girls of the Wash- 
ington State College, and attended by all women students of the insti- 
tution, to help in a statewide campaign for greater discretion, judgment, 
economies, and "taste" (as distinguished from "style") in the buying 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

of women's wearables, is a recent feature of the war preparedness cam- 
paign of the Pacific Northwest. 

Acting under the advice of their teachers, the girls made investigations 
of the nation-wide and world-wide situation with reference to textiles, 
and reported what they found and recommended to the convention. 
They were addressed by dry goods merchants, one of whom submitted to 
the convention an array of statistics on women's buying, assembled, 
during a number of years, from the business of his own firm. From 
these statistics he had deduced the conclusion that not more than 15 
per cent of the textiles purchased by women were actually worn out, 
and that the 85 per cent discard was due in a large measure to the quick 
changes in "style." 

Mr. J. N. Emerson, a merchant of Pullman, Washington, who sub- 
mitted these statistics, had included the buying of business men, pro- 
fessional men, college employees and members of a college faculty, lab- 
orers on the streets of the city, and the first four months' expense of a 
newly married couple. All of these were "one store" customers, mean- 
ing that Mr. Emerson had a complete record of their household buying; 
also, the records were made at times of the year when the buying would 
not be unusually high, such as "buying seasons" when families would 
be purchasing the season's hats, cloaks, suits, and so on. 

The first figures he submitted covered the buying, from January 1 to 
May 16, 1917, of a family consisting of a father, mother, three small 
children, and a son in high school. The account for January was as 
follows: 

Mother and girls, for dry goods $33 . 16 

For family groceries 32 . 90 

Expenditures of father and son 8 . 75 

Shoes for mother and girls 5 .05 

The family expenditures were carried through the different months, 
and on May 16, reached the following totals: 

Mother and three girls, for dry goods $150.03 

Family groceries 92 . 84 

Expenditure for father and son 40.00 

Shoes for mother and girls 31 . 30 

$314.17 

Working out the several percentages, it was seen that, in the period 
concerned, the mother and girls had used for dry goods 47 per cent, and 



1917] THE COST OF WOMEN'S CLOTHES 501 

for shoes about 10 per cent of the entire amount spent. For groceries, 
a little over 30 per cent had been spent; and for men's clothing, 13 per 
cent. 

This family lived close to town, but kept their own cows, raised their 
own potatoes, and had their own butter and eggs, thus reducing their 
grocery bill to the extent of these items. 

Another family consisted of father, mother, three daughters, and a 
son. Two daughters were in college and a son and daughter in high 
school. The expenditures submitted covered January, February, 
March, and April. 

Mother and daughters, dry goods $1 16 . 30 

Groceries 170.80 

Expenditures by father and son 37 . 60 

Shoes 27 . 50 

Another family considered in this connection included father, mother, 
a son and a daughter. Their account for January, February, March, 
and April presented the following family expenditures: 

Dry goods $65 .05 

Groceries 129 . 70 

Shoes 33.05 

Father and son 8 . 45 

The next was a family of three — father, mother and a small baby, and 
the period was February, March, and April : 

Dry goods $61 . 57 

Groceries 80 . 94 

Shoes 19.00 

Next, was a family of three, consisting of father, mother, and a daugh- 
ter in the pubHc schools, covered for a period of three months. 

Dry goods $113 .55 

Groceries 87 . 70 

Father (for suit of clothes and overcoat) 48 . 10 

Shoes 21 . 55 

The next family consisted of father, mother, a son seven years old, 
and a daughter in the public school. This man was a workman receiv- 
ing $50 a month, with which, by the use of most drastic economies, he 
was managing to live and pay his bills. The family account was segre- 
gated for the months of June, July, August, and September, as follows : 



502 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Mother and daughter, dry goods $14 . 10 

(In tliis sum, there was $1.70 for dishes) 

Groceries 90.60 

Shoes, mother and daughter 3 . 50 

(The girl had a pair of sandals costing $1.10) 

Clothing for the man 3 . 35 

(Two pairs of overalls, $1 a pair; one working shirt, 50 cents; 60 cents 
worth of socks; 25 cents worth of red handkerchiefs) 

He received for his four months' work, $200. He paid $12 a month 
for his home, a dollar a month water rent, and his fuel bill was estimated 
at approximately $10 a month, wood and coal being high. The segre- 
gation stated does not account for occasional medical expense, meat, 
milk, or small expenditures for entertainment — the latter being very 
small, obviously. 

The budget of the "newlyweds" was for June, July, August, and Sep- 
tember. The family expenditures for this time fell under the following 
headings: 

Dry goods for the wife $21 .09 

Groceries 50 . 25 

Shoes for wife 14 . 25 

Man's clothing and furnishings 24 . 25 

The unique thing about this family budget was that during the period 
the man spent more for dry goods than did his wife. Mr. Emerson 
stated that he had asked five girls in his store to write on a slip of paper 
their explanation of this fact, doing so without consulting one another. 
Each girl wrote, in substance: "She had her clothes before she was 
married." 

Concluding, Mr. Emerson said: "A fact with which we now are con- 
fronted is that the 'style problem' enters more largely into the buying 
of women's clothes and wearables in general, than is true in the case of 
the men. You can see at a glance where the preponderance of the ex- 
penditure lies in these figures — women's dry goods and shoes. We know 
well enough that they are not wearing all of this material out. In the 
present war emergency, where nationwide economies are demanded, 
you can see that we have a problem, and that, in so far as clothes are 
concerned, it is largely the women's problem." 



1917] ANALYSIS OF POOD-WASTE PROBLEM 503 

PARTIAL ANALYSIS OF FOOD-WASTE PROBLEM 

PREPARED BY LUCIUS P. BROWN 
Director of Bureau of Food and Drugs, Department of Health, New York City 

Wastes of Food Occur in its Handling and Utilization from 

THE FOLLOWLNG CaUSES 

I. In Producer's Hands 
A. On Farm 

1. Growing Conditions 

a. Unfavorable v/eather, weakening plant. 

b. Insect pests or micro-organism infection. 

2. In Har\'esting 

a. Excessive rains or drouth at time of packing, 

b. Shortage of labor. 

c. Too long storage before shipment. 

d. Storage under unfavorable conditions before shipment. 

e. Too early harvesting. 

f . Holding of cars too long because of shortage of labor. 

3. Poor Packing 

a. Due to unskilled labor. 

b. Due to shortage of labor. 

c. Rough handling of filled package. 

d. Unsuitable or poorly made containers. 

e. Poor grading. 

4. Shipping Defects 

a. Undue holding of cars to secure carload freight rates. 

b. Overloading of cars. 

T, T^ TT^r- ^P^^ judgment or carelessness in placing packages in car- 

B. From Woods and Waters 

1. Catching of young fish. 

2. Same causes as shown under lA-2c; L'\.-2d; h\-36.. 

3. Failure to properly ice. 

C. In Factory 

1. Spoilage from ins-anitary conditions. 

2. Spoilage due to unskilled labor or labor shortage. 

3. Insufficient number or poor quality of containers. 

4. Failure to use by-products. 

II. In Transit (in hands of transportation companies) 

A. At Shipping Point 

1. Shortage of cars. 

2. Congestion on loading trucks. 

B. In Handling Trains 

1. "Slack" Management 

a. Poorly designed or improper cars. 

b. See also L\-4c. 

c. Trains skipping icing stations. 

2. Defects in Handling 

a. Refrigeration defective or lacking altogether. 

b. Cars not rendered frost-proof. 

3. Delays in Transit 

a. Due to poor management. « 

b. Due to strikes, etc. 

c. Due to floods, storms, etc. 

C. After Arrival at Destination 

1. Congestion at Piers or Other Terminals 

a. Due to track shortage. 

b. From undue length of demurrage. 



504 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

c. Strikes or other labor troubles. 

d. Due to shortage or storage place for goods. 

2. Ill-advised Reconsignment. 

3. Undue Holding of Cars 

a. Through slack management. 

b. To profit by market changes (at consignee's order). 

4. Abandoned by Consignee 

a. Wholly unsound. 

b. Partly unsound and overhauling not profitable. 

c. Partly unsound but facilities to salvage unavailable. 

d. Market conditions believed to be unfavorable. 

5. Rough handling at terminals. 

III. In Distribution (from hands of transportation company to consumer) 

A. Wholesale 

1. Holding too long. 

2. Inefiicient cars. 

3. Poor storage facilities. 

4. Goods stored in poor condition. 

5. Overstocking. 

6. Damage by rats, insects, etc. 

7. Failure to remove promptly from terminals. 

B. Retail 

1. Carelessness or inefficiency. 

2. Through fancies of customers. 

3. Due to trimming, etc. 

4. Overstocking. 

5. E.xposure to dust and insects. 

IV. In Kitchen 

A. Hotel or Restaurant Kitchen 

1. Stale bread thrown away. 

2. "Slack" business methods. 

3. Portions too large and too many gratis "side-orders." 

4. Too much variety in dishes or single items, e.g., bread. 

5. Overstocking. 

6. Influence of custom, e.g., serving sugar on table. 

7. Improper disposal of waste products, e.g., burning of garbage. 

B. Private Family 

1. Unbalanced ration. 

2. Letting good food go into garbage pails and sinks. 

3. Poor facilities for and ignorance in handling foods. 

4. Poor cooking. 

Wastes in the Food Supply, due to Economic Reasons and resulting therefore in loss of 
money to the consumer, occur in Trade Channels in part from the following causes: 

A. No Terminal Markets. 

B. Duplication of Marketing Facilities. 

C. Expensive Cartage. 

D. High retail delivery costs. 

E. Unnecessary credits. 

F. Extravagance in service and display. 

G. Failure to buy home-packed goods of equal quality. 

H. Failure of retailer to use proper merchandising methods. 

The American Food Journal 



1917] THE AMERICAN PAPAW AND ITS FOOD VALUE 50S 

THE AMERICAN PAPAW AND ITS FOOD VALUED 

C. F. LANGWORTHY 
Chief, Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

AND 
A. D. HOLMES 
Scientific Assistant 

The name papaw (sometimes written pawpaw) is applied to two 
distinctly different fruits, both grown in the United States — one the 
native American papaw {Asimina triloba) and the other the fruit of 
the tropical American tree papaya {Carica papaya). 

The papaw (A. triloba) varies in size from a bush to a medium- 
sized tree and usually bears fruit abundantly. From early times in 
this country the fruit has been gathered and used as food, the Euro- 
pean settlers apparently learning its use from the Indians. Wherever 
it grows its use as food is well known, especially in rural regions, and 
is a favorite with many. It is little known, however, outside of the 
regions in which it is found wild, very likely because the flesh is very 
soft and easily bruised, especially when fully ripe. The fruit, which 
matures about the middle of September, remains in good condition only 
a short time after it is picked and does not stand either transportation 
or storage well. This difficulty is increased by the fact that many 
do not consider it edible until it is dead ripe; some even prefer it after 
it has begun to turn blackish in color and others maintain that a frost 
is required to bring the papaw to perfection. As a result of these pref- 
erences it is ordinarily eaten from the tree and is not found in quantity 
in the markets, even in the regions in which it grows. 

Writers appear to differ as to Vv^hether the skin of the papaw should 
be eaten in conjunction with the pulp or not, some maintaining that the 
skin possesses constituents which cause urticaria, while others pro- 
nounce it both palatable and wholesome. According to Corbett,^ it is 
more usual to eat the skin with the pulp than to discard it. 

Nature of fruit. The papaw has much in common with the custard 
apple, being a member of the same family. In appearance the mature 
fruit is practically cylindrical, with both ends rounded, the length being 
two or three times its diameter. The stem is attached, not at the end 
on the line of the long axis of the fruit, but a little to one side of the 

1 Published by permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. 

2 Garden and Forest, 8 (1895), No. 407, p. 494. 



506 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

end, so the fruit hangs almost horizontal rather than pei pendicular. 
it grows, the largest and best-developed specimens coming from the 
The size of the fruit varies considerably with the localities in which 
damp lowlands of the Mississippi Valley, A good-sized papaw will 
weigh three-fourths of a pound or sometimes a pound, though most 
of them are smaller, particularly when they grow clustered on 
the branches. The fruit contains a double row of shiny black seeds, 
which are arranged at right angles to its axis and occupy a very con- 
siderable portion of the interior of the fruit. Surrounding the seeds 
is a creamy pulp having a smooth texture and a rather pungent aroma, 
which, as the fruit ripens, is replaced by an ethereal flavor, for which 
the papaw is especially esteemed by its admirers. In appearance the 
papaw resembles the banana more than any other common fruit, though 
the pulp has a different texture and the fruit is smaller than the 
varieties of bananas commonly seen in this country. The papaw is 
very generally eaten in the localities in which it grows, but out of 
hand rather than as a recognized part of the diet, differing in this re- 
spect from such wild fruits as berries. Although some may not care 
for its peculiar flavor, its wholesomeness has been proved by long ex- 
perience, children being especially fond of it and often eating it in 
quantity without harmful results. 

Historical data. Little^ states that "the settlers in southern Kansas 
partly subsisted on pecan nuts and papaws" when their crops had failed, 
and in regard to the use of papaws he says: " It makes a splendid custard 
pie. There is no finer desert than papaw eaten with cream and sugar. 
It is used to make beer the same as the persimmon by putting the 
fruit in a jar, mashing it, and putting water on and letting it stand untfl 
fermented. It also answers to make pudding just the same as per- 
simmon pudding* is made. It is also said that brandy equal to peach 
brandy is made of papaws. Marmalade which is equal to that made 
of pears or peaches may be made of papaws. The custard [pulp] may 
be spread on a board and dried like pumpkin leather. Papaws may be 
kept in their natural state till midwinter or longer by laying them down 
in oats." 

Little gives no more definite data regarding persimmon pudding, 
but, according to information received from North Carolina, it is com- 
monly prepared according to the following recipe. 

'The Papaw. Cartersburg, Ind,.: Orville G. Swindler, 1905. 
* Data furnished by Mrs. W. N. Hutt, Raleigh, North Carolina. 



1917] THE AMERICAN PAPAW AND ITS FOOD VALUE 507 

PERSIMMON PUDDING 

1 cup grated bread crumbs 1 pound persimmon pulp 
fj pound flour ^ pound sugar 

J pound butter 2 well-beaten eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder J teaspoon salt 

Mix the ingredients and stir well. Steam in a buttered mold two 
and one-half hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Presumably his papaw pudding was made in a similar way. 

Lloyd^ gave considerable attention to the papaw and in his study 
found that all parts of the tree and green fruits contain a volatile oil 
that imparts a pungent odor. He also states that the bitterness of 
the bark and of the seeds is due to a bitter extractive, the character- 
istic constituent of which is an alkaloid to which he gave the name 
"asiminine." He prepared and studied the physiological actions of 
asiminine hydrochlorate, finding that a state of excitement and a state 
of torpor follow the subcutaneous administration of this drug. 

Lloyd quotes in his report statements by Hale regarding the whole- 
someness of the papaw and statements by Taylor who, though he re- 
ports cases of illness or "poisoning" resulting from eating the fruit, is 
nevertheless of the opinion that when fully ripe the pulp is perfectly 
satisfactory for food purposes — an opinion in which Hale concurs. 

Barber^ reports several cases of illness or poisoning (none of them 
fatal or even very serious), but is of the opinion that a predisposition 
on the part of the person is necessary. From his report it would appear 
that in some cases the fruit was eaten unripe and in others overripe, 
and that, while there was no uniformity of symptoms, the normally 
ripened fruits are less likely to be harmful. The symptoms of internal 
poisoning from eating papaws resembled those sometimes occasioned 
by oysters or strawberries in susceptible persons. He also notes the 
occasional occurrence of skin poisoning. In one case he reports that 
the poisoning did not occur unless the person touched the skin in the 
area of the mouth with the skin of the fruit. This external poisoning 
varied from a mild urticaria to a condition resembling severe ivy poison- 
ing, and there was no e\idence of immunity resulting from previous 
attacks. A mild poisoning of this sort was noted by one of the authors 
of this bulletin, who observed that after eating papaws the area around 
the Ups was affected. 

» Drugs and Med. North Amer., 2 (1886), No. 2, p. 49. 

« Jour. Amer. Mid. Assoc, 45 (1905), No. 27, pp. 2013, 2014. 



508 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Inasmuch as little information was found in the literature ;is regards 
the dietetic value of the papaw, it seemed desirable to determine the 
composition and nutritive value of this fruit, to test its table and cul- 
inary quahties, and to see whether it offered possibilities for more varied 
and extensive use as food. Papaws grown in the immediate locaHty 
of Washington, D. C, were procured for this purpose, and others were 
obtained from the American Genetic Association, which is interested 
in a study of the possibihties of the papaw as a cultivated fruit for 
general use. 

Composition. Ten specimens of varying size and degree of ripeness 
regarded as fair representatives of the fruit were selected. The table 
which follows shows the weight of the individual fruits and also the 
weight of the seeds, skin, and pulp. 

Weight of fruit, seeds, skin, and pulp of ten specimens of papaw 



SPECIMEN 


FRUIT 


SEEDS 


SKIN 


PCLP 




grams 


grams 


grams 


grams 


1 


69.5 


11.0 


6.0 


52.5 


2 


61.0 


9.0 


5.0 


47.0 


3 


78.0 


15.0 


4.0 


59.0 


4 


68.0 


14.0 


4.0 


50.0 


5 


68.0 


13.0 


3.0 


52.0 


6 


51.0 


8.0 


4.0 


39.0 


7 


75.0 


12.0 


9.0 


54.0 


8 


51.0 


8.0 


4.0 


39.0 


9 


53.0 


12.0 


4.0 


37.0 


10 


72.0 


14.0 


4.0 


54.0 


Average 


64.7 


11.6 


4.7 


48.4 


Per cent 




17.9 


7.3 


74.8 



The color of the pulp of the fruits studied varied apparently with 
the degree of ripeness, ranging from a deep creamy white in the fruit 
which was sHghtly unripe, to a very deep brownish cream in the fully 
ripened fruit. The pulp directly beneath any bruised portions of the 
skin quickly became very brown and, in one or two fruits which were 
rejected, almost black. The pulp obtained from the fruits studied was 
thoroughly mixed, sampled, and analyzed, the results being reported 
in the following table. Similar data for the edible portion of a number of 
other fruits are also included for comparison. 

It will be noted that the papaw pulp is relatively low in water con- 



1917 



THE AMERICAN PAPAW AND ITS FOOD VALUE 



509 



tent and consequently relatively high in total soHds, resembling the 
banana in this respect rather than the other fruits with which it is 
here compared. The protein content is noticeably high, while the 
content of fat, carbohydrates, and ash is within the range for other 
fruits. The fuel value of the papaw as calculated from the protein, 
fat, and carbohydrate content by means of the factors commonly em- 
ployed for that purpose is 435 calories per pound, which is relatively 
high, the value of the fruits cited above ranging from 135 calories per 
pound for watermelon to 685 calories per pound for avocado. 



Composition of American papaw in comparison with that of some common fruits 





REFUSE 






EDIBLE 


PORTION 








Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


Fuel value 
per pound 


Papaw 

Papaya (West Indian, 
rioe) 


1 per cent 
\ 25.2 

25.0 

35.0 

30.0 

5.0 
5.8 

27.0 
5.0 

59.4 


per cent 

76.6 

85.6 

91.5 
84.6 
79.6 
75.3 
86.3 
89.3 
66.1 
78.4 
79.6 
86.9 
90.4 
92.4 


per cent 

5.2 

0.8 

0.8 
0.4 
0.9 
1.3 
1.3 
1.0 
0.8 
1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
1.0 
. 0-4 


per cent 
0.9 

0.3 

0.2 
0.5 
14.5 
0.6 
1.0 
0.7 
0.7 

0.2 
0.6 
0.2 


per cent 

16.8 
8.9 

5.3 
14.2 

4.3 
22.0 
10.9 

8.5 
31.5 
20.1 
18.9 
11.6 

7.4 

6.7 


per cent 
0.5 

0.7 

0.7 
0.3 
0.7 
0.8 
0.5 
0.5 
0.9 
0.5 
0.6 
0.5 
0.6 
0.3 


calories 
435 

190 


Papaj-a (East Indian, 

unripe) 

Apples^ 


120 

285 


Avocado^ 


685 


Bananas^ 


445 


Blackberries^ 

Lemons^ 


260 
200 


Persimmons^ 


615 


Plums^ 


385 


Prunes'' 


360 


Oranges^ 


235 


Strawberries'' 


175 


Watermelons^ 


135 



A review of the literature gave no information as to the thoroughness 
of digestion of the papaw, nor were sufficient quantities of the fruit 
available for studying its digestibility in this laboratory. However, 
it can be said that when eaten freely by several of the laboratory staff 
it was not found to cause digestive disturbance, nor was there any 
indication that it failed to digest as thoroughly as do other fruits. Ac- 
cordingly, it seems fair to assume that the fruit would be as completely 

7 U. S. Dept. Agr., Office Expt. Stas. Bui. 28 (1906), rev. ed., with fuel value recal- 
culated. 

* Refuse not determined. 



510 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

assimilated as others in common use, and studies of the digestibility 
of many types indicate that fruits are, in general, quite thoroughly 
digested. It would seem, then, that, as the composition indicated, the 
papaw is relatively rich in nutritive material as compared with other 
fruits. The data at hand do not indicate that the papaw possesses 
any specific dietetic value (laxative properties, for example). 

Nature of carbohydrates. As the principal food material in the papaw 
is carbohydrate, it seemed desirable to determine its character. When 
samples of the papaw pulp were dried at lOO^C. the material became 
somewhat darkened and developed a pleasant caramel-like odor. The 
relatively high carbohydrate content, 17 per cent, suggested a high 
sugar content. An analysis of the dried papaw pulp, made by the 
Bureau of Chemistry, showed that the carbohydrate of the papaw 
contained about 16 per cent sucrose (cane sugar) and 35 per cent re- 
ducing sugars, or 52 per cent reducing sugars after inversion. For 
comparison it may be stated that, while bananas contain a slightly 
higher percentage of carbohydrate than the papaw, the well-ripened 
fruit contains approximately the same proportion of sucrose and re- 
ducing sugars as was found in the papaw. The nature of the papaw 
carbohydrates seems to indicate that they should be very completely 
and readily assimilated by the human body. 

Cooking tests. Papaw fruit was cooked in several ways in this lab- 
oratory in order to learn the effect of the different methods on flavor, 
texture, and palatability. The whole fruit was baked without the 
addition of spices; the fruit was spHt lengthwise, placed flesh side up 
in a shallow pan, spread with sugar, a little cinnamon and allspice, and 
small pieces of butter, and then baked. The pulp was spread on or- 
dinary pie crust and baked; the pulp, freed from skin and seeds was 
mixed with milk, eggs, sugar, and a Httle spice, and used like a custard 
pie fining; it was also used to replace pumpkin in an ordinary house- 
hold recipe for pumpkin pie. Some of those who tasted the cooked 
dishes thought that when used like pumpkin for pie-making the papaw 
was fairly palatable, but otherwise the methods described did not give 
satisfactory results. This seemed due to the fact that cooking 
developed a very pronounced and not agreeable flavor differing from 
that of the fresh fruit. A more satisfactory way of using the fruit was 
to beat the pulp to a creamy consistency, mix it with an equal amount 
of cream, and freeze as ice cream. Thus frozen the characteristic 
flavor was less pronounced than in the fresh fruit, and even those not 



1917] UNITED STATES FOOD LEAFLETS 511 

accustomed to eating the papaw pronounced the flavor of the papaw 
ice cream agreeable. 

The available data may, therefore, be said to indicate that heating 
does not improve, but rather injures, the papaw flavor, whereas chil- 
ling makes it less pronounced and, therefore, more agreeable to un- 
accustomed palates. Thus it would seem that the most suitable way 
of using the papaw would be uncooked, either for eating out of hand or 
as a dessert fruit. For the latter purpose it should prove interesting 
to housekeepers in regions where it is available, to be used plain, with 
cream and sugar, or as an ingredient of ice cream. 

Considering the composition of the fruit, its distinctive flavor, and 
pleasing texture, it seems to deserve the good opinion in which it is 
quite commonly held in regions where it is abundant. 

Compared with other wild native fruits, the papaw is of large size. 
This and the fact that the tree is abundant in many regions and the crop 
generally good indicates that it is worth consideration and further 
study. 



UNITED STATES FOOD LEAFLETS 
(for teachers and demonstrators) 

A new series of publications on food, the United States Food Leaflets, 
is now in press, issued jointly by the United States Department of 
Agriculture and the United States Food Administration. The kind 
of material needed was discussed at a conference of home economics 
workers in August, 1917, and the plan of the series developed from that 
discussion. The series is designed to meet the need of extension 
workers, and of the women's clubs and similar activities, and so to be 
of service both to the untrained housekeeper in city or country and to 
the woman who has had more time for the study of food problems. 

The leaflets are brief, in general not over four pages, somewhat pos- 
ter-like in form, and written in simple, nontechnical language. Never- 
theless the primary object is not to limit the discussion to simple prob- 
lems, but rather to make the discussion of all the problems simple. 

The leaflets emphasize the choice and preparation of an adequate 
diet. The method of approach is through a meal or a single food and 



512 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

then through the consideration of foods in the five groups into which 
they can be logically divided, rather than through calories, protein, 
and other similar terms. The more difficult and abstract ideas as to 
the needs of the body and the nature and nutritive value of foods are 
introduced very gradually and simply and always for the better under- 
standing of a practical problem. Recipes are used to supplement the 
text, those chosen calling for the less expensive foods, easy manipula- 
tion, and simple kitchen equipment. 

The leaflets are a logical development in the Department's plan for 
translating into popular language the results of technical and profes- 
sional work, and supplement rather than replace the Department's 
publications on food and other home problems. The series has been 
so planned that it will provide a large amount of data fundamental to 
extension teaching and other popular instruction, relieve extension 
workers of much of the task of preparing subject-matter, and make 
for uniformity in the extension teaching carried on under government 
and other auspices. That these objects may be the better achieved, 
the Department's extension service and extension workers in the states, 
and others are cooperating with the Department of Agriculture and the 
Food Administration. 

The following representatives of the Department of Agriculture, the 
Bureau of Education, the Food Administration, and the home economics 
departments of agricultural colleges took part in the conference. 

Dr. A. C, True Miss Abby L. Marlatt 

Dr. R. L. Wilbur Mrs. Alice P. Norton 

Dr. C. F. Langworthy Miss Frances Stern 

Mr. W. H. Beal Mrs. Mary H. Abel 

Miss Mary E. Creswell Miss Josephine T. Berry 

Miss Florence E. Ward Miss Isabel Bevier 

Miss Hannah L. Wessling Dr. Katharine Blunt 

Miss Emma A. Winslow Miss Agnes E. Harris 

Dr. B. R. Andrews Miss Flora Rose 

Miss Helen W. Atwater Miss Marie Sayles 

Miss Vera B. Spinney Miss Mary E. Sweeny 

Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin Miss Martha Van Rensselaer 
Miss Carrie A. Lyford 

Miss Ola Powell, Miss Effie Raitt, and Miss Catherine J. MacKay 
were expected but were not able to be present. 

There were, also, a considerable number of other home economics 
workers who attended the meeting and contributed to the discussion, 
including the following: 



1917 



A CONSERVATION DINNER 



513 



Miss Gertrude L. Blodgett 
Miss ^lary W. Thurston 
Miss Gertrude L. Warren 
Miss Melissa E. Farrell 
Miss F. Powdermaker 
Miss Louise B. Pritchett 
Miss Clement 



Miss S. A. Donham 

Dr. K. Morimoto 

Miss Katharine A. Pritchett 

Mr. E. G. Routzahn 

Mrs. M. J. Stannard 

Mrs. Miriam N. Loomis 



The leaflets are be'ng written under the direction of Dr. C. F. Lang- 
worthy, Chief of the Office of Home Economics, by Dr. Katharine 
Blunt of the University of Chicago, Florence Powdermaker, and Louise 
B. Pritchett, with the cooperation of Abby L. Marlatt, Mary E. Sweeny, 
Isabel E. Lord, Mrs. Ahce P. Norton, and others representing the Food 
Administration. 

Among the first titles are: Start the Day Right with a Good Break- 
fast; Do you Know Corn Meal?; A Whole Dinner in one Dish; Choose 
Your Food Wisely; Make a Little Meat Go a Long Way; Do You 
Know Oatmeal?; Food for Your Children. 



A CONSERVATION DINNER 

The men and women interested in home economics in the States Re- 
lations Service of the Department of Agriculture, including the Offices 
of Home Economics, Extension North and West, and Extension South, 
planned a dinner together that provided an opportunity to become 
better acquainted with one another, and v/ith the new members of the 
staff. Many additions have been made to each office staff during the 
last few months from universities and colleges all over the country. 

Naturally, conservation was the keynote, and the menu and decora- 
tions and jingles carried out the idea. These rhymes were used on the 
place cards — "Alice," as usual, proving very adaptable. 



The Aggies and the Hooverites 
Were looking o'er the land. 

They wept like everything to see 
The waste on every hand. 

'Tf this were only done away," 
They said, "it would be grand." 



II 

"If seventy Aggs with seventy books 
Should bone for half a year, 

Do you suppose," the Aggie said, 
"The food would be less dear?" 

"I doubt it," said the Hooverite 
And shed a bitter tear. 



514 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



III 

"The time has come," the Aggies said, 

"To talk of many things, 
Of what to eat, of calories, 

Of cabbages and kings. 
Of vitamines and sausages. 

And whether costs have wings." 



IV 

But Home Ec. people hurried up 

All ready for the fray, 
With Aggs and Hooves they did confer, 

They worked the live long day, 

Old H C L to drive away. 



The Aggies and the Hooverites 

Worked on a month or so. 
And then they launched a big campaign 

To eat less meat 
And save the wheat 

Such meals as this to advocate. 



VI 



"A one-dish meal," the Home Ecs 

"Is what we chiefly need, 
With fruit and nuts and bread beside 

'Tis very good indeed." 
Now if you're ready, people dear, 

We can begin to feed. 



said, 



The menu was simple ; the idea was taken from a forth-coming United 
States Food Leaflet. The main course was a Shepherd's pie, "a whole 
dinner in one dish." For dessert there were fruit, nuts, raisins, and coffee. 

Each table was decorated with a peculiar looking animal not usually 
connected with food. These animals served as an inspiration for jingles. 



Oh here is an elephant gray. 

He's an excellent beast for this day. 
He doesn't eat meat, 
And doesn't eat wheat. 

But fills up on peanuts and hay. 



A food conserver named Sue 
Went out to visit the Zoo, 

When she saw the giraffe. 

She said with a laugh, 
"What a wonderful neck for a stew." 



This brief account is given in the hope that it may be suggestive to 
others who wish to emphasize conservation informally. A similar 
dinner might be planned to help in the celebration of December 3, Mrs. 
Richards' birthday. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

WHAT ABOUT KATIEP^ 

MARY ALDIS 

Scene: A kitchen, neat, bright and attractive. 
Time: Nine o'clock of a summer's morning. 

DRAMATIS PERSONAE 

Katie, Cook to the Wilsons, comely, middle-aged and capable. 
Mrs. Edward Wilson, young, chic, intense. 

When the curtain rises Katie is discovered seated in a rocking chair 
peeling potatoes and singing. She sings louder and louder rocking in 
time and peeling faster and faster to keep up with her song. In her 
musical enthusiasm, the potatoes grow smaller and smaller as they issue 
from the curling peel. Finally, one is so small that it seems hardly worth 
boiling. Katie holds it up for inspection then throws it in with the 
peelings, and continues singing "Wearin' o' the Green." 

Mrs. Wilson enters. She is dressed in a becoming street suit and 
looks very pretty but there is a serious and determined air about her 
that is quite impressive. One feels great things in the air. 

Katie stops rocking and singing, puts the pan of potatoes on the table 
and rises. 

Mrs. W.: Good-morning, Katie. 

Katie: Good-morning, Ma'am. 

Mrs. W.: Katie, I've just been to a most wonderful meeting. I'm 
afraid that we shall have to think about food much more seriously than 
we have been doing. We are at war you know. (She eyes the peelings.) 

Katie: I know. Ma'am, and isn't it the great pity — all the foine young 
fellows leavin' to go off to the war? I was watchin' them go by — it's 
enough to make the heart in you heavy with aching. Ma'am. 

Mrs. W.: Yes, Katie, it is pretty terrible, and we at home must think 
about doing o\ir share — 

^ Reprinted by courtesy of the Chicago Examiner. 

515 



516 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Katie: Our share? An' isn't it my own sister's husband gone with 
the Battery he was after joinin' and her with two wee'ns and me givin' 
her half me wages — ■ 

Mrs. W.: Why Katie, how dear of you! I didn't know you did that. 
It's terribly nice of you. 

Katie: We ail have to help, Ma'am. (She wipes her eyes.) 

Mrs. W.: And we must help in another way besides that way, you 
and I, Katie, right here in this kitchen; we must help conserve the food 
supply. 

Katie: Ye mean put up some jam. Ma'am? 

Mrs. W: No, not exactly, although that's part of it: I mean we mustn't 
waste so much. 

(Katie squares herself at the word.) 

Katie: "Waste so much!" Well, what do you think of that? Me 
waste? Me, that puts every thing that comes off the table into the ice- 
box straight, to keep for tomorrow! 

Mrs. W.: Yes, Katie, I know you put some things away but it is the 
little things, the leakages, the crusts of bread, that count— we mustn't 
throw those away you know. (She takes a big breath and gathers her 
courage.) Those parings there, why Katie, there's nourishment in 
them, good food, it's wicked to throw them away. 

Katie: Wicked? To throw away potato peelings? 

Mrs. W.: Certainly, very wicked. 

Katie: Well thin, I'll have to be addin' a new sin the next time I go 
to confession ! It's a foine lot of peelin's I've thrown away in my time. 
I dunno will the priest give me absolution at all. An' what was that 
other thing you said? About leaks? There ain't no leaks. 

Mrs. W.: No, no, I didn't mean that way! Now, Katie, let's have 
a good talk about it. I want you to help me in conserving the food 
supply of the nation. It's our duty, our bounden duty. You want us 
to win this war, don't you? 

Katie: Shure I do. 

Mrs. W.: Well then, you must do your share. 

Katie: Will the war be over quicker, do you think, an' I don't throw 
out them potato peelin's? Lord O' Mercy, think o' all them that's 
gone out already! 

Mrs. W.: Oh I know, I know! Katie, do you know that SEVEN 
HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF FOOD (each word 
is spoken more solemnly than the last) IS THROWN AWAY, WASTED, 
EVERY YEAR? 



1917] WHAT ABOUT KATIE? 517 

Katie: (opening her mouth) An' who would be thro win' away all that 
great lot o' money? 

Mrs. W.: You and I, Katie — right here in this kitchen. 

Katie: I never threw no money away, Ma'am, I'm sure of that. An' 
I only lost it once, that time you gave me fifty cents for th' expressman, 
an' when he came, I never could find it at all, but I never threw it away. 

Mrs. W.: No, no! I mean that, those peehngs! (She points dra- 
matically to the pan between them.) (Katie takes up a curl of potato and 
looks at it wonderingly, almost with awe.) 

Katie: Now who would ever a' thought they was worth such a lot! 
Howly saints, won't I be after talkin' to that garbage man. It's a rich 
man he must be! Isn't it a whole pailful o' peelin's I put in just yester- 
day? Maybe if they ain't spoiled, I could get 'em back Ma'am, would 
I be telephonin' do you think? 

Mrs. W.: No, Katie, there is no making up for the wrong we have 
done in the past, and you and I have done very wrong. It's all clear 
now, we must resolve to do differently and keep our resolve. 

(She looks truly inspired as she says this last.) 

Katie: Yes, Ma'am, but I can't get used to the idea o' potato peelin's 
bein' worth all that money and nobody never told me! What'll I be 
doin' with these? (She holds out the pan, handling it with the greatest 
care.) 

Mrs. W.: I don't know exactly. Perhaps now they're off, they'll 
have to be wasted. I'm not quite sure. Miss Blount didn't say any- 
thing about that. 

Katie: Is that the lady that comes to talk to you an' the others about 
housekeepin' and gives you the little books? Well I'm thinkin' it's 
never the inside of a kitchen she's seen! She an' her talk! I read the 
book like you told me to, she's for feedin' people with calories every 
day o' the week. I've been cookin' for going on fifteen years an' I 
never heard tell of a calorie. 

Mrs. W.: It's a kind of a measure, Katie, like a, like a pint cup, only 
difi'erent. Now a pat of butter is a hundred calories and a potato is a 
hundred and a thin slice of beef, oh dear, I've forgotten, but anyway 
I'm sure it's a measure, and if you don't have the roast beef, and we 
can't have it often at all, Katie, because we must save it to send to the 
Allies, why then you see, as I was saying, we must have something 
else, substitute you know, something just as nourishing because, of 
course, you can't let your husband go hungry when he comes home tired 
from his work can you? 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Katie: No, Ma'am. 

Mrs. W. (enthusiastically): Well then substitute! How about maca- 
roni and cheese, palatable and highly nutritious, or fish, fried fish, fried 
in drippings, of course, and creamed sauce, a most excellent dish, and 
you might put some bacon around. Oh no, I forgot, we mustn't have 
very much bacon, well we'll find something else. 

Katie: Mrs. Wilson dear, please explain to me what in the world you 
are talking about? 

Mrs. W.: Did I go rather fast? I was trying to remember what she 
said yesterday, I'll ask her the next time she comes for the class. She 
knows a lot about these things Katie, she really does. Let's see, we 
began about waste, didn't we? Katie, I saw a sign up on the wall yes- 
terday, it was a terrible sign, it has haunted me and it will always haunt 
me on account of the past. What do you think it said? 

Katie: I dunno, Ma'am. 

Mrs. W.: This is what it said: IT IS AN ACT OF TREACHERY TO 
THE NATION TO WASTE A CRUST OF BREAD! 

Katie: The Saints deliver us! Will the police be here soon, do you 
think? (She looks around nervously.) Oh. I'll never do it no more, 
Ma'am, I never will! Oh dear, oh dear, think o' all them crusts gone 
along the same way as the peelin's. 

Mrs. W.: Now, Katie, we will go and look in the garbage can and 
see if there are any there. 

Katie (hastily) : Let me go and bring it in to you. Ma'am, I won't be 
a minute. 

Mrs. W.: No, Katie, we will go together, you and I. We are both to 
blame, gravely to blame! 

(Solemnly, Mrs. Wilson leading, they disappear rearwards, to reap- 
pear in a moment, in the same relative position. Mrs. Wilson bears the 
garbage pail, both are looking into it.) 

Mrs. W.: It is almost full! I feel terribly — just terribly. And I 
signed that pledge yesterday at the big meeting after the speeches, it 
was so exciting, everybody signing and resolving to save so there wouldn't 
be any war and all the while right in my own kitchen. Oh, Katie, it's 
awful, perfectly awful! Don't you see how awful it is? (She looks 
tragically into the pail and holds it out in despair.) 

Katie: I washed it out yesterday. 

Mrs. W.: No, no! You don't understand, you don't understand a 
word I say! (She gathers herself together.) Now Katie we're going to 



1917] COMPARATIVE COST AND FOOD VALUE OF FOODS 519 

go through this can right here and we are going to analyze the contents. 
From now on I'm going to keep house, I never have before. 

Katie: What are we going to do, did you say, after we empty it? 

Mrs. W.: Analyze! See how treacherous we've been. Oh Katie, all 
those things in there, they aren't mine to do that with, just because I 
paid for them, they used to be but they aren't any more — don't you see? 

Katie: No, a' course they aren't, they're that wicked, deceivin' gar- 
bage man's! The old spalpeen! Makin' you pay him fer takin' the 
swill away in his little cart, like as if he thought it wasn't any good and 
all the while hoardin' up riches sellin' potato peelin's! 

(Mrs. W. has been poking about in the can with a long spoon and a 
deeply dissatisfied expression. She now extracts and holds up a dam- 
aged half slice of toast, somewhat the worse for contact with coffee 
grounds. She looks at Katie with a terrible expression.) 

Katie (with another anxious look around) : Let's burn it up Ma'am 
an' then the police won't never find out! 

Curtain. 



COMPARATIVE COST AND FUEL VALUE OF FOODS 

Many housekeepers will find of value the following table prepared by 
the Food Administration showing the comparative cost and energy values 
of fifty foods. 

Bread is taken as the standard of comparison, and is called 100. The 
cost per pound of all materials is based on the average prices current 
in 25 places throughout the country on August 1. The column at the 
right gives the percentage cost of energy from the different materials 
as compared with that from bread, at the prices quoted. 

In using such a table, it must be remembered always that the fuel 
value or calorie value is only half the story. Milk, for instance, would 
stand practically at the head of the list if its protein (or muscle-building) 
value were considered. To choose wisely one must know not only the 
amount of energy that may be obtained for a given sum, but the form 
in which this potential energy is offered to the body. 



Corn meal 

Rolled oats, bulk. 

Wheat flour 

Hominy grits .... 
Graham flour .... 

Rye flour 

Sugar, granulated. 

Corn syrup 

Pearl barley 

Pure leaf lard .... 
Rice, fancy head . 
Cottonseed oil . . . 



Bread. 



Macaroni, bulk 

Corn oil 

Crackers, bulk, soda 

Oleomargarine 

WTiite potatoes 

Evaporated apples 

Lima beans 

Na\y beans 

Italian olive oil 

Creamery butter 

Prunes, medium sized 

String beans, canned 

Comb honey 

Cocoa, bulk 

Cheese, American 

Sweet potatoes _. 

Milk '. 

Pineapples, canned 

Ham, sliced 

Salt mackerel 

Pork chops 

Onions 

Corn, canned 

Leg of mutton 

Salmon, Red >^\laska, canned. 

Salmon 

Leg of lamb 

Beef, round steak 

Eggs, fresh gathered 

Peas, canned 

Sardines, domestic 

Halibut 

Peaches, canned 

Wliitefish 

Salt cod 

Veal cutlets 

Tomatoes, canned 

Chicken, broilers 



CENTS PER POUND 


6.1 


6.9 


7.1 


7.7 


7.9 


7.8 


9.4 


8.1 


10.7 


27.1 


10.7 


29.9 


9.3 


12.7 


31.0 


16.5 


30.9 


3.3 


14.8 


18.5 


19.5 


51.2 


45.7 


15.8 


12.8 


21.4 


29.0 


31.8 


7.0 


S.3 


13.6 


40.3 


21.9 


30.3 


5.1 


12.5 


29.0 


24.1 


24.9 


32.8 


28.0 


26.4 


11.8 


49.2 


24.5 


14.2 


18.2 


20.9 


33.5 


9.6 


34.5 



PERCENTAGE COST 
OF ENERGY 

47.4 

48.4 
55.1 
61.5 
61.5 
62.8 
66.7 
71.8 
84.6 
84.6 
85.9 
96.2 

100.0 

100.0 
100.0 
111.5 
116.7 
141.0 
113.6 
l.'O.O 

i:9.o 

164.1 
167.9 
174.4 
175.6 
185.9 
191.0 



196.2 
198.7 
219.2 
248.7 
271.8 
2S0.8 
315.4 
326.9 
364.1 
426.9 
466.7 
498.7 
5C0.0 
552.6 
564.1 
605.1 
684. 6 
697.4 
728.2 
729.5 
744.9 
859.0 
1,230.8 
1,524.4 



520 



1917] THE CONSUM VEREIN SHOP 521 

THE CONSUM VEREIN SHOP (AND THE LADY) 

ELLEN HOWARD WILSON 

We became acquainted with the Consum Verein as soon as we began 
housekeeping in Zurich. 

It was on the Fourth of July that we took possession of our "woh- 
nung" as they called the wonderfully complete and attractive apart- 
ment, the possession of which made us for the time being Swiss citi- 
zens. After we had made a careful survey of the rooms and halls, my 
husband and I left our young people engaged in putting up the Amer- 
ican flag and singing patriotic songs, and went out to look up shops 
and procure provisions. 

"We will walk around and see how the land lies," said R. Being a 
man he dishked asking questions of the passersby. Taking a street 
to the right of Weinbergstrasse, we stopped at the end of the first block 
to look around us. 

Just before us was one of the usual large cement buildings which are 
such a feature of the beautiful white city. On the ground floor there 
was a small unpretentious looking shop, which bore above the door- 
way the sign — Consum Verein. It must be the provision store of some 
club we thought, and after a glance at the pleasant-looking woman who 
stood behind the counter we walked on. At the corner at the next 
block there was a similar shop and before we came back to our corner 
of Weinbersgtrasse we had passed a third. By this time we had con- 
cluded to try one of these shops and we chose the one which we had 
seen first, which was also the nearest to our home. Entering behind 
an old woman with a basket, we found the small enclosure almost filled 
with "all sorts and conditions of nien." Our pleasant-faced "Consum 
Frau" was serving everyone in regular order, no matter whether the 
customer was a tiny aproned boy or a well dressed lady. Most of these 
people carried books in which the "Consum Frau" wrote down their 
purchases. On the wall was a large printed Hst of articles with the 
prices. 

When our time for being served came at last, we found that practical- 
ly all articles of food, except meat, could be found here. This seemed 
very strange until we learned that these shops were supplied every day 
from Basle, where the Consum Verein society, the society for pur- 
chasing and distributing food throughout Switzerland, had its head- 
quarters. 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

After this first day I saw our Lady of the Shop almost daily. She 
was always pleasant and often offered helpful suggestions, as that the 
"block chocolade" was both better and more economical for the chil- 
dren's breakfast than the ordinary chocolate or cocoa. Nor do I 
believe that all of her obliging ways came from the fact that she was 
paid something above her salary, according to the amount of her sales. 
Of course if she had not been both efficient and accommodating her 
customers would have drifted to the nearby stores, where they would 
have found just the same articles and the same prices. The other 
Consum Verein women — they were all women — were polite enough 
but we did not think them quite equal to ours. 

She was quite distressed when we forgot the book. "You will lose 
some of your percentage," she said. This did not make very much 
impression on me and I promised the children all the percentage we 
should ever receive. When we were leaving for Italy, months later, 
our Frau insisted on having the book back and she said again, "You 
will get your money down in Italy;" and she was right, for after we 
had been some weeks in our villa on the Mediterranean, I received a 
httle express package from Zurich, and the children had plenty of change 
for Italian souvenirs. 

WHAT THE FOOD SITUATION IS 

The men of England, Scotland, Ireland, France, Italy and Belgium 
are fighting; they are not on the farms. The food production of these 
countries, our Allies, has therefore been greatly reduced. Even before 
the war it was much less than the amount consumed. The difference 
was supplied by the United States, Canada, and other countries, in- 
cluding Russia, Roumania, South America, India, and Australia. 

This difference is now greater than ever, and, at the same time, food 
can no longer be obtained from most of the outside countries. 

Therefore our Allies depend on North America for food as they have 
never depended before, and they ask us for it with a right which they 
have never had before. For today they are our companions in a great 
war against a common enemy. For the present it is they who are doing 
the fighting, the suffering, the dying — in our war. 

One million of the finest young men in the United States will soon 
be fighting side by side with the millions of brave soldiers of France, 
Great Britain, Belgium, Italy, and Russia. 



1917] -WHAT THE FOOD SITUATION IS 523 

Millions of the men, women, and children of the United States can 
not go abroad and fight the enemy face to face. But they can fight 
by helping the fighters fight. 

France, Great Britain, Italy, and Belgium must now import 60 per 
cent of their breadstuffs instead of the 40 per cent they imported be- 
fore the war. America must supply the greater part of this need. To 
send them the least that they can live on we must increase our 
export of wheat from 88,000,000 to 220,000,000 bushels. 

We can not send them corn because they have not enough mills to 
grind it. We can not send them corn meal because it spoils in shipping. 
The oats, rye, and barley, that we send will not support them unless 
mixed with wheat. We Must Send Them More Wheat, and to do 
this We Must Eat Less Wheat Bread. 

Because of the lack of fodder and the increased need of meat to feed 
the soldiers and war workers, France, Great Britain, Italy, and Belgium 
have on hand today 33,000,000 less head of stock than they had before 
the war. Their herds are still decreasing in spite of the fact that we 
are now sending them three times as much meat as we did before the 
war We must send them more meat this year than ever before. 

The chief source of fats for eating is in dairy products. We are able 
to produce no more of these now than before the war. Yet last year 
we sent our Allies three times as much butter and ten times as much 
condensed milk as we used to send them. Because their milk cows 
are still decreasing we must send even more butter and condensed milk 
this year. Because their hogs are decreasing we must send them more 
lard. 

Before the war France, Italy, and Belgium raised all their own sugar. 
Great Britain bought sugar from Germany. 

Now France, Italy, and Belgium can not raise much sugar because 
their men are fighting and Great Britain can not buy sugar where she 
used to buy it. All must now get sugar where we get it, and there is 
not enough to go around unless we save. 

HOW YOU can help 

Have at least one meal a day without wheat bread. Use instead 
corn, oat, rye, barley, or mixed cereal breads. 
Eat less cake and pastry. 
Order wheat bread from your baker at least twenty-four hours in 



524 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

advance so that he will not bake too much. Cut the loaf of wheat bread 
on the table. Use all stale wheat bread for toast or cooking. 

If every person in America consumes 4 pounds of wheat flour a week 
instead of five, we can ship the 220,000,000 bushels which our soldiers 
and our Allies must have. 

Eat fish and other sea food, poultry, and rabbits, instead of beef, 
mutton, and pork. Fish and chicken can not be shipped in compact 
fonn like meat, and are more perishable. 

Do not use either beef, mutton, or pork more than once a day, and 
then serve smaller portions. Use all left-over meat cold or in made 
dishes. Use more soups. Use beans; they have nearly the same food 
value as meat. 

Remember that no grain or other human food was used to feed the 
fish that gives you nourishment. Save the products of the land. 

Use no butter in cooking except left-overs that would otherwise go 
to waste. Cook with olive or cottonseed oil instead. Save lard by 
eating less fried foods. 

Try to use up all left-over fats in cooking, but if there is some you can 
not use save it carefully, make scrubbing soap out of it, or sell it to the 
soap maker. 

If every person in America saves one-third of an ounce of animal fat 
a day we can ship enough for our soldiers, sailors, and Allies. 

Cu down on candy and sweet drinks. Eat half as much sweets as 
before and you are still eating more than the Englishman or French- 
man gets. 

Use honey, maple sirup, and corn sirup on the breakfast table instead 
of sugar. 

Serve cake without frosting or icing. Eat plenty of fruit. 

If every person in America saves an ounce of sugar a day our soldiers, 
sailors, and Allies will be provided for. 

The railroads can not carry coal to you and also handle military sup- 
pHes in the quickest way. Help by burning less coal. 

Coal supplies power for electric light and steam heat. Turn ofif both 
when you don't need them. 

If you can get wood, use it instead of coal. 

Eat Plenty, Wisely, Without Waste, and Help Win the War. 

United States Food Administration. 



EDITORIAL 

A Hidden Lesson. There is a lesson that does not directly appear 
upon the surface in the account of the results of the saving in some of 
the great hotels by the observance of meatless and wheatless days. 

Saving of more than a ton of meat on its "meatless Tuesday" and of 
five barrels of wheat flour on "wheatless Wednesday" is reported by 
the Biltmore hotel, New York City, by its entry upon the Food Ad- 
ministration's campaign to conserve these staples for export to our Allies. 

On the last meatless day at the Biltmore, 1927 pounds of various meats 
were saved, as estimated by a comparison with the normal daily con- 
sumption of the same number of guests. The saving in the servant's 
dining-rooms was 695 pounds. The guests served numbered 2866, 
giving an average saving per person of 101^ ounces. The greatest sav- 
ing was in beef, amounting to 1137 pounds. 

On one Wednesday, a wheatless day, 4011 persons were served at 
meals and at tea, with an average saving of 4i ounces, or a total of five 
barrels of wheat flour. The Biltmore and several other hotels have 
substituted rye, potato, barley, and rice flours for wheat, not only in 
breads, but in pastries. 

This is a conservation measure that is worth while, but what of the 
custom that allows 103/^ ounces of meat for each person, when in the 
ordinary household from 4 to 6 ounces is considered sufficient? 

Four and one-seventh ounces of flour means between 6 and 7 ounces 
of bread, and as this is evidently the saving for each person at a single 
meal, and these are not the people who are living on a largely cereal 
diet (the least expensive diet) it would seem that here, too, wasteful 
customs have grown up. 

The Sugar Shortage. The AlHes' need for sugar has become impera- 
tive. Before the war, with the exception of England who imported 
from Germany, they raised their entire supply. 

When France can give her people only 3^ ounce of sugar daily, and 
England and Italy's ration per day is 1 ounce, we in the United States 
can not go on consuming 4 ounces per day for each person. It is un- 
thinkable that we should do so. 

There will be only a limited amount of sugar on the market until the 
middle of December. The United States normally produces less than 
one-half of all she consumes. She must look to Cuba and the West 
Indies for the remainder. Last year's supply is about exhausted. If 

525 



526 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

France and England have sugar in the meantime, every womaa in Amer- 
ica must see that each member of her household reduces the daily amount, 
usually eaten, by at least 1 ounce, or better by 2 ounces. 

The Food for France Fund. Last month we noted an opportunity 
for giving to France, for those who could more easily send the product 
of their hands than money. 

Carita Spencer, who is in charge of this fund, writes us that she has 
been obliged to discontinue sending directly to France canned and 
other goods that she has received, both on account of the difficulty of 
transportation and for other reasons. She is, however, selling these in 
New York, and sending the money to France, so that either money may 
be sent here, for the Fund, or jams, jellies, and household canned goods 
may be furnished, and the full proceeds of the sale of these will be 
contributed. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: What is the effect on the vitamines in vegetables of the use 
of soda in cooking? 

A nswer: Present theories regarding the water-soluble food accessory — ■ 
"vitamine" — hold that this material exists in at least two forms. In 
one form it is destroyed by dilute alkalies at the boiling temperature. 
In another more stable form it apparently is unaffected. Investiga- 
tions, aimed to determine the conditions affecting this material, are 
being carried out in several laboratories at the present time. As to 
what proportion of the "vitamine" is destroyed by cooking vegetables 
in water to which cooking soda is added investigators have not yet 
reported. However, in our laboratory, rats fed a ration consisting of 
60 per cent of soy beans cooked in water to which enough cooking soda 
was added to give a distinctly alkaline reaction to the entire mixture 
grew over a period of many months quite as well as those animals given 
a similar diet to which no cooking soda had been added. Obviously 
all of the water soluble food accessory could not have been destroyed 
in the beans to which the cooking soda had been added. 

For references see Williams: The Chemical Nature of the Vitamines. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 29 (1917), p. 495; Steenboch: Antineuritic substances 
from Egg Yolk. Ibid., xxviii. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may be obtained through the 
Journal of Home Economics if the Journal price is listed. 



Household Manufactures in the United States, 
1640-1860. A Study in Industrial His- 
tory. By Rolla Milton Tryon. Chi- 
cago: University of Chicago Press, 1917, 
pp. 413. $2.00. By mail of the Journal, 
$2.10. 

In this significant historical study Profes- 
sor Tryon has added one more to the rapidly 
growing number of works treating of the 
family institution in some one of its phases. 
As its title suggests, the book discusses 
the development of manufacturing industries 
within the American home from early colon- 
ial times through the transition period 
following upon the War of 1812, when the 
factory system of industry gradually sup- 
planted that of the household. One of the 
chief merits of the book to the student of 
industrial history lies in the fact that the 
author has wisely placed his study in its 
larger economic setting, thus avoiding the 
mistake of divorcing household industry 
from the geographical, economic, and politi- 
cal conditions which determined its char- 
acter and its evolution. Thus the opening 
chapter describes briefly, but in sufficient 
detail, England's repressive acts, directed 
against any general shop or factory manu- 
facturing in her colonies, and the effect of 
this grasping economic policy in promot- 
ing manufacturing within colonial homes. 
This tendency was also furthered by a 
deliberate policy of legislative encourage- 
ment in many of the colonies. Other influ- 
ences at work to promote household manu- 
factures were the sharp decline in immigra- 
tion after 1640 and the inadequate facilities 
for transportation of English goods, both 
of which operated to throw the colonists 



upon their own resources to a considerable 
extent. 

Having thus laid his historical foundation, 
the author discusses, in a valuable chapter, 
the "Status of Household Manufactures in 
the Colonies" from their humble beginnings 
to the close of the Revolutionary War. 
Early colonial legislation to encourage home 
manufactures is described with some detail. 
There follows a helpful account of the con- 
ditions which led to the appearance of 
two well-defined geographic and economic 
divisions, — the colonies north of Maryland, 
where household manufacturing made great 
progress from 1700 to 1765, and those south 
of Pennsylvania where the development was 
so slow that it "never gave the mother 
country much concern." 

One of the most suggestive portions of the 
chapter discusses the tremendous impetus 
given to domestic manufactures by the 
Stamp Act, the Townshend Acts and the 
bitter political controversies following upon 
these measures. Interesting accounts are 
given of the "spinning bees" inaugurated 
by the Daughters of Liberty in New Eng- 
land in their efforts to crystallize sentiment 
in favor of home-made goods; and a few 
figures are cited, taken from contemporary 
writings, to show the large output in linen 
and woolen cloth of many colonial homes, 
from Massachusetts to Virginia, during the 
crucial years after 1765. 

The succeeding chapter traces the "Quar- 
ter Century of Developments" from 1784 
to 1810, during most of which period 
home manufacturing, especially of textiles, 
flourished almost without a setback. There 
follow valuable chapters on "A Year's 

527 



528 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



Output of the Family Factory," "The 
Products of the Family Factory," "The 
Transition to Shop and Factory Made 
Goods," and "The Passing of the Family 
Factory." At the end of the book are a 
careful bibliography of primary sources 
and secondary authorities and an excellent 
index. 

Professor Trj'on's work represents a 
genuine contribution to our knowledge of 
household industry in relation to commim- 
ity and national economy. The author has 
drawn upon a rich field of source material 
and has supported every important state- 
ment with satisfactory eWdence. Perhaps 
the most valuable portions of the book are 
the carefully prepared tables showing (1) 
the change in value of exports from and 
imports to Great Britain in selected periods; 
(2) the kinds, amoimts, and value oi 
household manufactures in the United 
States in 1810; (3) the total and per capita 
value by counties of household manufac- 
tures in the United States in 1840, 1850, 
and 1860, based on census reports. 

So painstaking and thorough a study 
should be welcomed by college and uni- 
versity instructors in household economy as 
well as by teachers of industrial history. 

WlLLYSTINE GaODSELL, 

Assistant Professor of Education, 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

Dressmaking as a Trade for Women in Mas- 
sachusetts. By May Allinson, Ph.D. 
Boston: Women's Educational and In- 
dustrial Union, 1916, pp. 180. (Vol. 4 of 
Studies in Economic Relations of Women, 
Bulletin of the United States Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, No. 193). $0.80. By 
mail of the Journal, $0.86. 

Now that the little volumes embodying 
the results of the Cleveland Survey have set 
such a high standard of excellence in both 
matter and make-up, the present reviewer 
could wish that her task had been set before 
comparison was possible. 

Although it bears the imprint of the 
Women's Educational and Industrial Union, 
Boston, "Dressmaking as a Trade for Women 



In Massachusetts" conforms to ^he general 
type of United States Labor Bureau bulle- 
tins under a somewhat more attractive 
cover. 

While the subject matter is interesting 
and well-organized from the sketch of the 
evolution of the tradfc through discussions 
of the industrial, economic, and educatibnal 
aspects of its conduct in Massachusetts to 
summary and outlook, the reader needs to 
bear in mind that it is all of interest as his- 
torical matter only. Written in the present 
tense, the frequently recurring "today" 
denoting the years from 1909 to 1914, it 
will best serve as a milestone to measure for 
us the great forward strides which have been 
taken in trade conditions and trade train- 
ing during the last decade. 

When a trade is in such a prosperous state 
that workers cannot be obtained at any 
wage; when over- time, under-pay, and im- 
sanitary conditions are banned by law and 
can only continue with the consent of the 
workers; when a single trade school enrolls 
over a thousand students and places more 
than five hundred in business in a single 
year; when a beginner in the dressmaking 
shop may advance from seven dollars a 
week to ten or eleven in two or three seasons, 
conditions are so different from those upon 
which this thesis is based that neither 
criticism nor comparison is fair or worth 
while. 

For instance, we who are in the thick of 
the fight cannot agree that "dress-making 
is such a skilled trade that it can utilize 
very few young girls," for we cannot supply 
the demand for these same young girls who, 
after a few months training, become so 
skilful that with their young eyes and 
fingers they are preferred to older women. 
Neither can we permit "many who must 
earn as soon as the law allows .... 
to enter unskilled industries," when we 
know that this means the almost certain 
loss of these girls to skilled industry forever, 
and the even more serious loss to the girl 
of that progress in skill and efficiency 
which will be of immeasurable value to her 
as the manager of a household. 



1917] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



529 



Again, the thesis declares that "four 
social agencies are .... notably 
needed at the present time: (1) Day trade 
schools which can hold and train the child. 
(2) Social agencies which can keep ambi- 
tion and courage kindled. (3) Bureaus of 
information, vocational advice and guidance. 
(4) Educational agencies proxading part- 
time schooling." Boston has had each and 
every one of these agencies in operation for 
a number of years, — trade schools, day and 
evening, for boys and girls, men and women; 
settlements, social centers, societies of many 
names, but all working in the closest co- 
operation for the guidance and protection 
of youth; placement bureaus and secretaries; 
vocational guides and advisers, pre-voca- 
tional, part-time and continuation schools, 
most of which meet the needs of the State 
as well as of the city. 

It is perhaps unnecessary to add that the 
suggestions contained in the "Summary" 
embody the principles which have been 
developed by the leaders of vocational 
education and guidance since the Douglas 
Commission began its work for Massachu- 
setts in 1906. 

If theses of the type of that under discus- 
sion, writteai to fulfill the requiremenits for 
a college degree, must be published, it 
would increase their usefulness and save 
them from the fate of being shelved, could 
they be published either in full or in part 
by the daily or monthly press. 

We must hope that all of the time and effort 
and intelligent investigation put into this 5m/- 
letin may prove helpful to other States who 
may not be so advanced in vocational edu- 
cation and labor legislation as Massachusetts. 
Florence E. Leadbetter, 
Boston Trade School for Girls. 

Dressmaking. By Jane Fales. New York: 
Charles Scribner's Sons, 1917, pp. 508. 
$1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.63. 

With this book Miss Fales has added to 
the list of texts available to high school and 
college teachers one in which the technique 
of dressmaking is very fully set forth. 

The broadest study of dressmaking must 



include the study of form, color, and mate- 
rials, as well as the technique of garment 
making; these subjects are all treated more 
or less fully. 

The book is divided into three parts, 
preceded by an introduction. The intro- 
duction briefly tracing the development of 
the art of dressmaking might really be in- 
cluded in Part I which deals briefly with 
the historic development of costume, giving 
illustrations and descriptions of the costumes 
of different periods. In Part II, Textiles, 
one chapter is devoted to textile manufac- 
ture, giving the detailed processes in the 
construction of yarn; the other, to textile 
economics, dealing with the characteristics 
of different fibers and the fabrics woven 
from them. Part III, Dressmaking, dis- 
cusses ver>' fully the technique of pattern 
making, designing and draping, cutting, 
fitting, and the making of waists and skirts, 
with a final chapter on embroidery and 
methods of finishing. 

The part of the book which deserves 
special mention is that dealing with dress- 
making. Assuming that the student has a 
knowledge of sewing, the directions for mak- 
ing waists and skirts of various types in- 
clude every possible step to be taken and 
are not only very full, but are clearly ex- 
pressed and so written that changing fash- 
ions wiU not make them useless. 

The discussion of form is brief, and might 
well be more fully illustrated, the important 
subject of color is barely touched, and in 
the arrangement of subject matter these 
discussions would seem logically to come 
immediately after the discussion of historic 
costume design, instead of being separated 
from it by a number of chapters on other 
subjects. 

Charxotte G. Baker. 

The Molhercraft Manual. By ^Iary L. Read. 
Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 
1916, pp. 440. $1.25; By mail of the 
Journal, $1.35. 

The value of this book can be rightly 
estimated only when it is studied in rela- 
tion to the new educational movement for 



530 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



which Miss Read has coined the term 
Mothercraft. While the term itself is gen- 
erally considered objectionable, the move- 
ment which it aims to designate is receiving 
high commendation from an ever-widening 
group of child specialists, educators, social 
workers, and the public generally. Its pur- 
pose is to train young women in the care 
and education of children both in home and 
civic life. At present there is no place 
where an educated young woman can learn 
both theoretically and practically the sci- 
entific care of well children, although she 
can in a hospital learn the scientific care of 
ill children. In time such a training will 
undoubtedly be considered an essential part 
of every homemaking course, as well as 
every course preparatory to child-welfare 
work. 

It is at this juncture when this movement 
is in its infancy that Miss Reed has en- 
deavored to formulate such a course of 
training in her "Mothercraft Manual." 
In general outhne, it is very like that fol- 
lowed in similiar courses given in the schools 
in Germany and in England after which 
the Mothercraft School in New York City 
(now discontinued) was mainly patterned. 
These foreign schools are primarily kinder- 
garten training schools, but differ from those 
in this country in that they stress the nur- 
ture of the cliild and home training for girls. 

The Manual is necessarily wide in scope, 
so wide that no one person could speak 
authoritatively on all of the subjects covered, 
and we seriously question the wisdom of the 
attempt to do so. Considered as a compila- 
tion of much valuable material to be used in 
the course of training under discussion, and 
so used by a person trained to discriminate, 
it proves highly suggestiv^e. Such a use of 
the book has been made by a trained nurse 
who has specialized in child hygiene in one of 
our foremost hospitals. Her class of twenty- 
five kindergarten students was greatly inter- 
ested in the course, the outline of wliich 
other trained nurses are now using in their 
classes of mothers. To those who are 
training teachers of little children the book 
is also highly suggestive. 



For the untrained mother Lowever, it is 
doubtful if it will prove of special value. 
Facts are so closely packed that there is 
little chance for that play of expression 
which sends the thought home. In fact, 
one needs to be seriously interested before 
reading the book, for any appeal is lacking. 
It is essentially a study book. Even the 
serious-minded mother would probably 
soon come to the conclusion that the advice 
given is too impractical, too idealistic for her 
to follow in her busy life. 

In our judgment, therefore, the espocial 
value of the book is in courses where young 
women are trained in the education and 
hygienic care of children. The standard 
set is high, but once established it can be 
modified by the individual as the every-day 
experience in the home necessitates. 

Miss Read makes a general acknowledg- 
ment to different authorities — and some 
are names to conjure by — but all through 
the book one finds statements which excite 
question as to who is the authority. As 
no one has time to trace these to their 
source, the book is necessarily discounted to 
that extent. A case in point is the "toxin- 
free" diet listed on page 67. Recent criti- 
cism (Survey, March 10, 1917) has brought 
out the fact that this diet is advised by the 
Battle Creek Sanitarium. Naturally we 
feel better satisfied to know its origin. 

For ourselves, we, like others, take excep- 
tion to certain statements. For instance, 
we have understood that a ball, suspended 
as in the illustration on page 63, is injurious 
to a baby's eyes. We wonder if anyone 
knows of babies who cry for ten minutes 
on schedule time! (page 88). It would be 
interesting to see how a certain learned 
official would fit this schedule into the 
house-wife's eight-hour day! (See editorial, 
Journal, February, 1917.) 

We think that Miss Read is premature, to 
say the least, when she gives Montessori 
equal rank with Froebel, Hall, and Dewey 
(page 197). Beside these apostles of play, 
it is strange to see the name of one who 
said, "If I were persuaded that children 
needed to play, I would provide the appa- 



1917] 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



531 



ratus, but I am not so persuaded." We 
confess that a close study of Dr. Montes- 
sori's doctrine, illuminated by fjrst-haiul 
knowledge of her schools abroad and in 
this countrj', leads us to make a different 
estimate of her contribution to philan- 
thropic education, valuable as this is in 
certain respects. 

On the whole, the book assumes a position 
that it cannot maintain in that it essays to 
speak authoritatively along lines on which we 
are just feeling our way. Whereas in child 
hygiene it is safe to proceed with some 
assurance, in child study the footing is verj- 
uncertain. Studies of indi\idual children 
under home conditions have been made by a 
few parents, and studies of many children 
in an unnatural environment ha\e been 
made by trained observers, but as yet no 
studies of a number of children in a natural 
environment have been made by trained 
observers. Child psychologj' awaits this 
development. What is known scientifically 
about child hygiene is mainly in the pos- 
session of doctors and nurses, and what is 



known scientifically regarding child educa- 
tion is mainly in the possession of teachers. 
Both of these groups have succeeded to 
some extent in passing on this knowledge 
to mothers. It is the combination knowl- 
edge of these two groups that Miss Read 
has endeavored to embody in her "Mother- 
craft Manual," a task which only a daunt- 
less person would dare undertake. The 
measure of success attained gives the book 
a distinctive place in this movement. 
Elizabeth Jenkins, 
Formerly Principal Kitidergar- 
ten Training College, 
Sidney, Australia. 

The Ten Lessons on Food Conservation, 
published by the Food Administration 
especially for the use of the summer normal 
schools, have been issued in one pamphlet, 
and can be obtained free of charge by writ- 
ing to the Food Administration. There are 
also printed separately about 1000 copies 
of Chapter IX, on An Adequate Diet. 



BOOKS RECER^D 



The Administration of Secondary-School Units. By Leonard V. Koos. Chicago: The Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press, 1917, pp. 194. 

The Baby's Food. By Isaac A. Abt, M.D. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company, 
1917, pp. 143. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.30. 

Cakes, Pastry and Dessert Dishes. By Janet M. Hill. Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 
1917, pp. 276. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 

My Family Account Book. By Blanche Geary. New York: The Womans Press, 1917, 
$.50. By mail of the Journal, $.56. 

Food for the Sick. By Solomon Strouse, M.D., and IMaude A. Perry. Philadelphia: W. B. 
Saunders Company, 1917, pp. 270. $1.50. By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 

Personal Hygiene. By American Authors. Edited by Walter L. Pyle, M.D. Philadelphia: 
W. B. Saunders, 7 ed. rev. and enlarged, 1917, pp. 555. $1.75. By mail of the Jour- 
nal, $1.92. 

Practical Food Economy. By Alice Gitchell Kirk. Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 
1917, pp. 246. $1.25. By mail of the Journal, $1.33. 

Production and Thrift. Published by direction of the Minister of Agriculture, Ottawa, 
Canada, 1916, pp. 250. 

Successfid Canning and Presenting. By Ola Powell. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Com- 
pany, 1917, pp. 372. S2.00. By mail of the journal, S2.1S. 

War Food. By Amy L. Handy. Boston: Houghton MifHin Company, 1917, pp. 76. $.75. 
By mail of the Journal, $.''9. 



532 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the United States Department of Agriculture: 
Fresh Fruits and Vegetables as Conservcrs of Other Staple Foods. By Caroline L. Hunt. 

Farmers' Bulletin 871. 
How To Select Foods. III. Foods Rich in Protein. By Caroline L. Hunt and Helen W. 

Atwater. Farmers' Bulletin 824. 
Preservation of Vegetables by Fermentation and Salting, ^y L. A. Round and H. D. Lang. 

Farmers' Bulletin 881. 

Issued by the United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
Three Short Courses in Home flaking. By Carrie Alberta Lyford. Bulletin, 1917, No. 23. 

Issued by the United States Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 
Summary of Child-Welfare Laws Passed in 1916. Miscellaneous series No. 7. Bureau 

Publication No. 21. 
Facilities for Children's Play in the District of Columbia. Miscellaneous Series No. 8. Bu- 
reau Publication No. 22. 
Infant Mortality. Results of a field study in Manchester, N. H., based on births in one 
year. By Beatrice Sheets Duncan and Emma Duke. Infant Mortality Series No. 6. 
Bureau Publication No. 20. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 
Chemical Closets. Reprint No. 404 from the Public Health Reports. June 29, 1917. 
Common Colds. By W. C. Rucker. Supplement No. 30 to the Public Health Reports. 

March 16, 1917. 
Drinking Fountains. Investigation of Fountains at the University of Minnesota. By H. 

A. \A1iitaker. Reprint No. 397 from the Public Health Reports. May 11, 1917. 

Issued by the publishers listed: 
The Planning of an Economical Wardrobe. By Helen Lee Davis. Emergency Bulletin 

No. 9. University of Nebraska, Extension Service, Lincoln, Nebr. 
Experiments in Teaching Food Values. University of Illinois, Department of Household 

Science, Urbana, 111. Bulletin 49. 
Milk; A Cheap Food. By Flora Rose. Minnesota Farmers' Library, Agricultural Exten-. 

sion Bulletin No. 63. Univ. of Minn., St. Paul, Minn. 
Home Canning. Prepared by Home Economics Department, the Vermont Agricultural 

Extension Service, Burlington, Vt. 
Housewife's Manual for Saving Fruits and Vegetables by Can?iitig and Preserving. By Mary 

E. Sweeny. College of Home Economics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky. 
Doing Without. Emergency Recipes. Published by the N. Y. C. Section, Emergency 

Committee of the American Flome Economics Association, 19 W. 44th Street, New 

York City. $.25. 
Food for the Family. Bureau of Home Economics, A. I. C. P., 105 E. 22nd. St., New York. 

Pub. No. 120. 
Agricultural Preparedness and Food Conservation: a Study in Thrift Committee on Thrift 

Education, National Education Association. 
Wheat Substitutes. By Robert E. Chaddock, Henry C. Sherman, Mary D. Swartz Rose, 

and May B. Van Arsdale. Columbia War Papers, Series 1, No. 15, Columbia 

Universit}^ 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 533 

Food Demonstration Work for Congested City Neighborhoods. Charity Organization Society, 
105 E. 22d St., New York City. 

Food Supplies in War Time. By R. H. Rew, C. B. Oxford Pamphlets, 1917. Oxford Uni- 
versity Press, Amer. Branch 29-35 W. 32d St., New York City. 

The American Red Cross Manual of Home Service. July, 1917. Department of Civilian 
Relief, Washington, D. C. 

Occupations for Girls. Suggestions for the Preparation of Vocational Charts. Prepared 
by Helen L. Thomas. Y. W. C. A., 600 Lexington Ave., New York City, 1917. 

Illegitimacy in Europe as Affected by the War. By Emma O. Lundberg. No. 106, Reprints 
of Reports and Addresses of the National Conference of Social Work, 315 Plymouth 
Court, Chicago. 

Direction for Canning by the Cold Pack Method. Compiled by Stella S. Simonds. Issued 
by Committee on Food Production and Conser\-ation, Quincy, Mass. Published in 
English, French, Italian, Lithuanian, Swedish, Russian, Finnish, Jewish, and Syrian. 

Food Bulletin. Published by the Women's City Club of New York. Edited by Martha 
Bensley Bruere, Vanderbilt Hotel. 

Food Facts. A magazine devoted to the saving of foo(i, money and labour. Annual sub- 
scription, 3/, post free. Published 119 Fleet Street, London, England. 

The Food Supply of the United Kingdom. A report drawn up by a committee of the Royal 
Society at the request of the President of the Board of Trade. Published by His Maj- 
esty's Stationery Office, London. Price 4d. net. 

Investigation of Workers' Food and Suggestions as to Dietary. Report by Leonard E. Hill, 
M. B., F. R. S. Published by His Majesty's Stationer^' Office, London. Price 1? d. 
net. 

Lessons in Community and National Life. Community Leaflets Nos. 1, 2, and 3. Pub- 
lished by the Bureau of Education, Department of the Interior. Washington, D. C. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

The bibliography this month is selected from the less technical magazines. All are 
1917 issues unless otherwise stated. 

How the High Cost of Li\ang is Reduced in Australia. William Notz, Survey, Sept. 22. 

The Possibilities of Roasts. Day Monroe & ISIay Van Arsdale, Teachers College Rec, 
Sept. 

Food Control and Democracy. David Lubin, Atlan. Mo., Aug. 

Food or Famine. J. Russell Smith, Century, Sept. 

High Food Prices, ]\lid,dleman, and Speculation. L. D. H. Weld, No. Amer. Rev., Oct. 

Food in War Time. Graham Lusk, Scientific Mo., Oct. 

Fearful Famines of the Past. Ralph A. Graves, Nat. Geog., July. 

The Rat Pest — A National Liability. Edward W. Nelson, Nat. Geog., July. 

An Electrically Heated Food Truck. Joseph B. Howland, Mod. Hosp., Oct. 

Heated Food Boxes for Serving Hot Food from a Central Kitchen. Helen Wallace, 
Mod. Hosp., Oct. 

Nourishment Requirements of Physical Labor. Lenna Cooper, Good Health, Sept. 

National Menace of Rural Bad Health; a Remedy. George ]MacAdam, 0////oo^, Feb. 21. 

Home Economics and Public Health. Winifred S. Gibbs, Survey, Dec. 23, 1916. 

New Public Health. A. Hamilton and G. Seymour, Survey, Nov. 18, 1916; Jan. 20, 
Apr. 21. 

Problem of Life and the Economic Waste of Sickness and Premature Death. N. Bridge, 
Sci. Amer., Dec. 16, 1916. 



534 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The Family as the Unit of Public Health Work. IVIary Beard^ Mod. Hosp., Oct. 

Health Activities of a Civic Center in a Small Community. Elizabeth Ross, Amer. 
Jour. Nursing, Aug. 

A Health Center in a Large City. Robert H. Bishop, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Aug. 
Principles of Nursing Economy as Applied to Community Health Centers. William G. 
■\A'Tiite, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Aug. 

Teaching in the Hospital and the Public Health Ser\ace. Ambrose L. Suhrie, Amer. 
Jour. Nursing, Sept. 

Conditions Which Will Aid the Instructor to Render Her Best Service. Elizabeth Bur- 
gess, A^mer. Jour. Nursing, Sept. 

Teaching Problems of Public Health Instructors. Anne Hervey Strong, Amer. Jour. 
Nursing, Sept. 

The Relation of the Private Duty Nurse to the Public, as an Educator. Carolyn Gray, 
Amer. Jour. Nursing, Sept. 

The Relation of the Private Duty Nurse to the Public as a Social Worker. Marie T. 
Lockwood, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Sept. 

Health Conditions in Prisons. Thomas Mott Osborne, Amer. Jour. Nursing, July. 

Child Labor ]Mo\-ement of Today. F. I. Taylor, Sch. and Society, Jan. 6. 

Children and PhiIanthropJ^ E. McCracken, Home Progress, Jan. 

Socializing the Interests of the Child. A. P. Coville, Home Progress, Jan. 

Teaching Children to be Helpful at Home. E. McCrackeu, Hojne Progress, May. 

The Sa\-ing of Child Life. James C. Ewart, 19lh Century, July. 

The Nations Children and Our Duty Toward Them. Mary Scharlieb, M. D., 19th 
Century, June. 

Shall this Country Economize For or Against its Children: Julia C. Lathrop, Sch. and 
Society, Aug. 4. 

The Lives and Health of Mothers and Babies: How Can We Save Them? Edward P. 
Davis, Amer. Jour. Nursing, July. 

County Units for Maternity Service. Grace L. Meigs, Amer. Jour. Nursing, July. 

Opportunities of a Prenatal Nurse in Connection with Venereal Diseases and Prevention 
of Blindness. Maude S. Smart, Amer. Jour. Nursing, Juh'. 

Textiles. W. L. Marvin, World's Work, May. 

Bacteriological Retting for Ramie, Flax, etc. H. A. Carter, Sci. American, Jan. 27. 

Standardized Dress for Women. Frances Fenton Bernard, Assn. Monthly (Y. W. C. A.), 

July. 

About Rug Books. H. G. Dwight, Bookman, Aug. and Sept. 

Arrangement and Balance of Furniture. Edward S. HoUoway, House Beautiful, .\pr.- 
June. 

Furnishing on a Budget. L. D. P. Lee, Country Life, March. 

Convenient and Practical Kitchen Cabinet. F. A. Hammond, House Beautiful, Jan. 

Period Furniture. Conrad Weiffenbach and Anton Anderson, Indus. Arts Mag., Juty, 
Aug., Sept. & Nov. 

^Mobilization of American Women for Industrial Service. Mary S. Sims, Assn. Monthly 
(Y. W. C. A.), Aug. 

Limitations and Possibilities of Industrial Training for Women. E. Bryner, Indus. 
Arts. Mag., March. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The American Red Cross Committee 
on Dietitian Service includes a number of 
well known members of the American Home 
Economics Association. Miss Jane A. 
Delano, Chairman, National Committee 
on Red Cross Nursing Service, is an ex 
officio member. 

The original committee consisted of: 
Miss Emma H. Gunther, Chairman.Teachers 
College, New York City; Miss Isabel Ely 
Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y.; 
Miss Annie W. Goodrich, Teachers College, 
New York City; Miss Elva A. George, 
Red Cross Headquarters, Washington, D. C. 

The enlarged committee includes: Miss 
Grace E. McCullough, Peter Bent Brigham 
Hospital, Boston, Mass.; Miss Mary A. 
Lindsley, Cook County Hospital, Chicago, 
111.; Miss Ada Z. Fish, William Penn High 
School, Philadelphia, Pa; Miss Edna ^\^lite, 
Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio; 
Miss Effie Raitt, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash.; Miss Emma Smedley, 
Philadelphia, Pa.; Miss Ruth Wheeler, 
University of Illinois, Urbana, 111.; Miss 
Lenna Cooper, Battle Creek Sanitarium, 
Battle Creek, Mich.; Miss Catherine J. 
MacKay, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa; 
Dr. Agnes F. Morgan, University of Cali- 
fornia, Berkeley, Cal.; Miss Helen M. Pope, 
Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa. 

The General Federation of Women's 
Clubs have opened a service office in the 
Maryland Building in Washington, D. C, of 
which Miss Helen Louise Johnson has been 
appointed director. From this office will be 
published the General Federation Magazine, 
which has been purchased by the General 
Federation of Women's Clubs, and is to be 
edited by Miss Johnson. 

The opening of the Service Office came 
in response to the need of the Clubs for 



more direct contact with the activities of 
the different Government Departments. 

Miss Johnson was for the four years 
1912-1916 Chairman of the Home Eco- 
nomics Department of the General Fed- 
eration, and has since the last Biennial 
been Chairman of the Relationships Com- 
mittee. 

The Richmond School of Social Econo- 
my has been established in response to a 
long-felt need for more available training in 
preparation for social service and social 
work in the South. The purpose of this 
school is to provide professional training 
for positions in social work and public 
health nursing. It is conducted by a 
Board of Trustees in cooperation with the 
leading social agencies and nursing or- 
ganizations of Richmond and Virginia. 

North Carolina Rural Work. The co- 
operation of country and town clubs is a 
most gratifying feature of the organiza- 
tion of rural work in North Carolina, as 
reported by Mary G. Sliotwell, Supervisor 
of Rural Schools, Oxford, N. C. 

Last 3^ear the County Federation of 
Clubs, composed of twenty country and town 
clubs and associations, planned two meet- 
ings when every member of an organized 
club was invited to bring lunch to the 
County Fair Grounds. The all day pro- 
gram included cooking demonstrations, 
school lunch demonstrations, and an ad- 
dress on food conservation. At the second 
meeting, twelve of the twenty clubs re- 
ported such activities as the improvement 
of schools, the establishment of com- 
munity centers, playgrounds, and other 
means of keeping, not only the boys and 
girls, but the men and women contented and 
interested in their own communities. 

535 



536 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[November 



The Second Pan American Congress 
on Child Welfare will be held in Monte- 
video, the capital of Uruguay, March 17-24, 
1918. The executive committee, of which 
Dr. Luis Morquio, a pediatrist of Monte- 
video, is chairman, extends a cordial invita- 
tion to all societies and persons interested to 
become members and, if possible, to attend. 
Four sections have been arranged — 
sociology and legislation, education, hygiene, 
and medicine. In each country of the 
three Americas a committee has been au- 
thorized to enroll members, secure papers, 
draft resolutions, and take charge of the 
local affairs of the congress. Julia C. 
Lathrop is chairman of the committee for 
the United States, and Edward N. Clop- 
per, 105 East 22 d street, New York City, 
is secretary. 

The Annual Convention of the Associa- 
tion of American Agricultural Colleges 
and Experiment Stations will be held in 
Washington, D.C., November 14 to 16. The 
program for the first evening will include the 
annual address by President Ken)'on L. But- 
terfield, and an address by Prof. T. N. Carver, 
Har\'ard University, on "The Farmer's In- 
come as Affected by War Conditions." There 
toU be a session on the Smith-Hughes Bill, in- 
cluding a paper by ]\Iiss Mary E. Sweeny, 
Kentucky State University, on the "Relation 
of the Smith-Hughes Bill to the Teacliing of 
Home Economics in the Land Grant Col- 
leges," and a session on Food and Food Ad- 
ministration, at which Herbert C. Hoover, 
President Charles R. \'an Hise, University 
of Wisconsin, Dean Catharine Mackay, Iowa 
State College, and Prof. Isabel Be\'ier, Uni- 
versity of Illinois, will speak. The Experi- 
ment Station Section offers a paper on "The 
Economic Use of Food Values" by Dr. Gra- 
ham Lusk of Cornell Medical School. 

The headquarters will be at the New Wil- 
lard where all meetings will be held. 

Preceding the meeting of the Association 
of American Agricultural Colleges and Ex- 
periment Stations, the State Leaders of 
Home Demonstration Agents will be called 



together November 9 to 13 Ij consider the 
organization and presentation of work in 
connection with the present emergency. 

A Conference of Supervisors of Home 
Economics has been called by the Commis- 
sioner of Educaation, to be held in New York 
City November 23 and 24. All who are in- 
terested in home economics are in\'ited. 

Programs of this meeting wiU be mailed 
from the Home Economics Division of the 
Bureau of Education, and announcement of 
the place of meeting will be made in the near 
future. The probability is that the McAlpin 
Hotel will be selected b}' most of those who 
will attend. 

Notes. Miss Alice M. Loomi^and Miss 
Anna E. Richardson have been appointed 
Special Agents for Home Economics Edu- 
cation under the Federal Board for Voca- 
tional Educa'ion. They are to aid Miss 
Berry, who is Assistant Director for Home 
Economics, and much of their work will 
be in the field. 

Information is desired regarding courses 
in high school civics, which have been planned 
with the newer idea of socialization. Tliis 
information will be of great assistance to those 
who are formulating courses, especially if 
results of such work are given. 

Miss Isabel El}' Lord, of Pratt Institute 
was granted by the Trustees leave of absence 
with salary in order that she might accept 
the post of Chief of the Home Economics 
Section of the Food Conservation Div-ision, 
Food Administration, at the request of Dr. 
Wilbur and INIr. Hoover. Miss Lord began 
her work in Washington on October 8. 
She will have the administrative responsi- 
bility for the work of the Section, while the 
"regional representative" is to be acting 
chairman of the advisory committee, and 
will direct the policy of the Section and de- 
cide on subject matter. 

Professor Lafayette B. Mendel, of Yale 
University has been appointed a member 
of the Advisory Committee on Alimenta- 
tion for the Food Administration. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. IX DECEMBER, 1917 No. 12 

RECENT CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD 

PREPARATION 

LOUISE STANLEY 
University of Missouri 

Food preparation for so long a time an art practiced by purely rule 
of thumb methods is passing through the appKed science stage and gradu- 
all}' by selecting from the mass of available scientific material that which 
applies to it directly we are organizing and developing it into the science 
of food preparation. 

Interesting material along this line comes out each year but much is 
hidden away in technical magazines and never comes to light in the food 
laboratory. On this account it seems worth while to review some of the 
more important of the recent articles with their practical applications 
in our own field. Some of these may be familiar to most of the readers 
but it seems wise to bring them all together in one article rather than to 
try to separate those which had probably come to the notice of many of us. 

BREAD 

In the substitution of other cereals for wheat the chief difficulty is to 
find a material to take the place of the elastic gluten of wheat. Eggs 
may be used for this purpose but the price makes them prohibitive. 
Ostwald and Reidel^ suggest the use of 30 per cent starch paste for this 
purpose. They found that by mixing a dough prepared from other thnn 
wheat flour with a stiff starch paste in the proportion of 15 per cent of 
the total weight a satisfactory loaf with good crumb could be obtained. 
These same authors- give the results of breads made from other than 

1 Ostwald and Reidel: The Preparation of a Porous Bread from Starch. KoUoidztsch, 
17 (1915), pp. 12-14. 

2 Ostwald and Reidel: Baking without Grain Flour. Ckem. Ztg., 39 (1915), pp. 537-38. 

537 



538 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

wheat flours by the addition of a 20 per cent starch paste compared with 
those mixed with egg and liquid and liquid alone. The starch paste in 
every case gave a more satisfactory texture. 

Interesting in this connection is the description of a patent recently 
granted for a process of making bread: United States Patent 1,235,330.* 
Bread dough is formed of rye flour 2 pounds, blended flour 74 pounds, 
yeast 6 ounces, salt 2 pounds, and water 52 pounds. The rye flour is 
first mixed with boiling water and allowed to stand for twelve hours. 
There is then added to it a separately prepared sponge formed of water, 
blended flour, yeast, and salt, and the remainder of the blended flour, 
salt, and water is then added. 

Hay flours are a comparative novelty as food stuffs. They are dis- 
cussed in an article by F. Octken.* In our own country we have already 
reported work upon the alfalfa flour in bread making by Elizabeth 
Sprague of the University of Kansas.* 

Additional value is attached to the use of these flours by the recent 
work of McCollum in regard to their content in the fat soluble accessory 
so essential for health.^ As much as 30 per cent of the alfalfa flour in the 
total diet will supply the necessary fat soluble accessory in the diet even 
when there is none provided from any other source. 

Considerable attention has been given in the past year or so to condi- 
tions of activity of the yeast with the idea of improving the quality of 
the loaf and decreasing the loss by fermentation. 

Arnold WahF concludes that natural lactic acid' used in bread making 
gives a larger loaf with whiter, more velvety crumb and improved bloom 
and color of crust. This may be obtained in the home by the use of but- 
termilk as the liquid in the preparation of bread. 

Kohmann and his co-workers^ suggest the use of a mixture of salts 
which they call yeast nutrients. In the use of this mixture the rising time 
of the bread may be decreased, or 50 to 65 per cent of the yeast saved. 
On account of the relatively high cost of the yeast the cut is usually made 
in decreasing the amount used. In connection with this there is a saving 

» Chem. Abs., 11 (1917), p. 2594. 

* F. Octken: The Use of Hay Flour in the Nutrition of Animals and Men. Wiener 
Landw. Ztg. 65 (1915), p. 338; abs. Chem. Abs. 10 (1916), p. 499. 

5 Jour. Home Econ., 9 (1917), p. 257. 

« E. V. McCollum: The Supplementary Dietary Relationship Among Our Food Stufifs. 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 68 (1917), p. 1383. 

^ Wahl: Better Bread by Means of Natural Lactic Acid. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 
7 (1915), p. 773. 

' Kohman, Hoffman, Godfrey, Ashe and Blake: Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 8 (1916), 
p. 781. 



1917] CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD PREPARATION 539 

of two per cent fermentable carbohydrates calculated on the basis of 
total flour used, due to greatly diminished decomposition of them by yeast. 
It has the additional advantage of enabling them to control more directly 
the conditions under which bread is made. 

In a discussion of this paper at a meeting of the American Chemical 
Society some doubt was expressed as to whether this action was due 
to the nutrient relation of the salts to the yeast or their effect on the 
gluten, thus making a shorter fermentation time possible. 

In United States patent 1,222,304 April 10, Kohman, Godfrey and 
Ashe^ receive a patent for a method of economizing the amount of yeast 
used in leavening bread by mixing cheese with the dough to serve as a 
yeast food during fermentation. Milk in which peptonization has been 
brought about by the action of certain bacteria, and certain other pro- 
teins similarly treated may be substituted for the cheese. The nitrogen 
containing compound is mixed with a hydrogenated fat in the proportion 
of ten parts to four or five of the fat and the mixture is added to the flour 
to the extent of 1 to 1.5 per cent of its weight. 

No attempt has been made to review the different substitutes for wheat 
flour suggested in the hterature as this would furnish material for a 
lengthy article in itself. 

MILK 

A study of the chemical changes in the souring of milk has been made 
by Van Slyke and Bosworth.^° They conclude that in souring 22 per 
cent of the lactose of milk is decomposed with the formation of lactic 
acid. A small amount of lactic acid is formed from the decomposition 
of the citric acid in the milk. The greater portion of the acid is formed 
during the first twenty-four hours and it is practically complete at the 
end of forty-eight hours. This is important in the use of sour milk. 

The relative eflSciency of raw and boiled milk as food has been the 
subject for many recent researches. McCollum and Davis^^ conclude 
that heating milk does not decrease the vitamine content. Any decrease 
in efliciency of milk so treated is due to the decomposition of the casein 
so the protein factor of the diet is somewhat less valuable after long con- 
tinued heating. A good summary of the work on the comparative 

9 Chem. Abs., 11 (1917), p. 1865. 

1° Van Slyke and Bosworth: Chemical Changes in Souring of Milk. N. Y. State Tech. 
Bulletin 48 (1916); Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), pp. 191-202. 
" McCollum and Davis: Loss of Efficiency of Milk. Jour. Biol. Chem. 23 (1915), p. 247. 



540 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

efl&ciency of boiled and unboiled milk in the diet is given by Dr. Lane- 
Claypon.i2 31ig concludes that there is no difference in the nutritive 
efficiency between boiled and unboiled milk, in fact if milk from another 
species is fed there are reasons to suppose that it may be better cooked 
than raw. 

In view of the former custom of adding lime water to milk for infants 
and invalids, the work reported by Bosworth and Bowditch^' is inter- 
esting. They find that the addition of the lime water results in the 
precipitation of more calcium phosphate in the form of a mixture of di- 
and tri-calcium phosphate. Instead of increasing the alkalinity of milk 
it really decreases it. They conclude that its use in milk is Uttle more 
effective in preventing curd formation than the addition of a correspond- 
ing amount of water would be. On the other hand, in cases where the 
amount of hydrochloric acid in the stomach is small, it may do harm by 
neutralizing this slight degree of acidity and by decreasing the availabil- 
ity of the calcium and the phosphates present ixi the food. 

Sodium citrate is recommended for use in preventing curd formation." 

EGG WHITE 

Of especial interest to dietitians are the recent findings in regard to the 
use of raw egg white. Bateman^^ finds that raw egg white is very indi- 
gestible in dogs. A. tolerance is gained for it after continued use but 
even then the utilization does not exceed 85 per cent. 

In another article^^ Bateman reports the same conditions in man. 
The use of raw egg white often causes diarrhea and vomiting and the 
utilization may be as low as 50 per cent. Heating the egg white to 70°C. 
(158°F) removes the partial indigestibility and puts egg whites into the 
category of readily assimilable nutrients. Acids and bases can likewise 
effect a change in the same direction. 

This whole question is discussed in an editorial of the Journal of the 
American Medical Association 69, (1917) p. 1006. 

^ Janet E. Lane-Claypon : Milk in its Hygienic Relations. Reviewed in Jour. Home 
Econ., 9 (1917), p. 41. 

" Bosworth and Bowditch: Jour. Biol Chem., 28 (1917). 

1* Bosworth and Van Slyke: Amer. Jour. Diseases of Children, (1914), p. 298; N. Y. Exp. 
Sta. Tech. Bulletin 34 (1914). 

15 Bateman: Jour. Biol. Chem. 26 (1916), p. 263. 

1^ Bateman: Amer. Jour. Med. Set., (1917), p. 153. 



1917] CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD PREPARATION 541 

MEAT 

In view of the long prejudice against the use of immature veal as food 
it seems wise to call attention to an article by W. N. Berg'^ on the com- 
parison of immature veal with mature beef as food. No differences in 
composition of physiological significance were detected. When properly 
prepared by longer, slower cookingso as to soften the larger proportion 
of connective tissue present, it was digested quite as readily as mature 
beef. With this the sole source of the nitrogen growth was normal. The 
conclusion was that there was no ground for the prejudice against the 
use of immature veal as food, but that when properly prepared it is per- 
fectly wholesome, especially when the deficiencies in fat and possibly in 
small amounts of undetermined constituents are made up in the ordi- 
nary mixed diet. We cannot consider the use of this form of veal as an 
economic gain except in exceptional cases. 

FISH 

At this time when we are being urged to substitute fish for meat wher- 
ever possible in order to help stretch the supply of meat it is important 
that we should know the comparative nutritive values of the different 
kinds of fish available, as well as the methods of their preparation. A 
very good summary of the kinds of fish available from the standpoint of 
the middle west consumer is found in an article by Henry B. Ward which 
was prepared for the Illinois Food Conservation Committee.^* Several 
of the fish described in this article have been discussed in pamphlets is- 
sued by the Bureau of Fisheries at Washington, with recipes for their 
preparation included. A hst of these bulletins is given below.^' 

" W. N. Berg : Biochemical Comparison between Mature Beef and Immature Veal. U. S. 
Dept. Agr. Res. 5 (1916), pp. 667-711. 
" H. B. Ward: The Housewife and the Fish Problem. Jour. Home Econ., 9 (1917), p. 369. 
" Farmers' Bulletin 85: Fish as Food. 
Circulars from Bureau of Fisheries, Department of Commerce: 

11. Canned Salmon: Cheaper Than Meats and Why. 

12. Sea Mussels: What They Are and How to Cook Them. 

13. Commercial Possibilities of the Goose Fish. 

18. Oysters: The Food That Has Not Gone Up. 

19. The Tile Fish: A New Deep Sea Food. 

22. The Gray Fish: It Knocks the H out of the H. C. L. 

23. The Sable Fish. 

25. The Burbot: A Fresh Water Cousin to the Cod. 

26. The Bowfin: An Old Fashioned Fish with a New Found Use. 

27. A Practical Smoke House for Fish. 

28. Preserving Fish for Domestic Use. 



542 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

A recent study has been made of canned salmon by L. D. Bushnell 
and C. A. A. Utt.^" They examined a number of brands of sahnon of 
different grades but find them all sterile and only traces of tin, well be- 
low the amount considered toxic. The authors conclude that the re- 
ported poisonings following the use of canned salmon were due to its 
infection after opening the can. 

SUGAR 

The saving of sugar is at the present time an important question with 
us and several articles have appeared dealing with possible economies 
in the use of this ingredient. Marmalade is so important a part of the 
Enghsh diet that we are not surprised to have from that country sug- 
gestions for its preparation with smaller amounts of sugar,^! and the ad- 
dition of some salt. The results of some similar tests are reported by 
Miss Lord^^ as the result of experiments at Pratt Institute. They find 
that satisfactory jam or marmalade can be prepared from 1 pound of 
fruit with the addition of 6 ounces of sugar and j ounce of salt, instead 
of the usual I pound of sugar. These products should not be eaten for 
several days, or until the characteristic salt taste has had time to dis- 
appear. 

F. Stutzel-3 reports a loss of sugar in baking under usual conditions. 
In the author's opinion there is a waste of from 8 to 28.8 per cent of the 
added sugar in ordinary baking practice, due to the decomposition by 
the yeast. This may be controlled by a shorter fermentation period 
and by the use of the yeast nutrients. 

C. P. Plaisance and Helen Monsch^^ call attention to the fact that 
there is a formation of furfurol during the caramelization of sugar. The 
amount formed seems to be sufficient to be given our attention. If 
the product is boiled after caramelization, the furfurol is removed. 
Care should be taken to prevent caramelization in baking of fruit unless 
the sauce is boiled to remove any possible furfurol formed. Brittle 
candies should be prepared at as low a temperature as possible and whol- 
ly or in part from glucose, since less furfurol is formed in this case. This 

^°L. D. Bushnell and C. A. A. Utt: The Examination of Canned Salmon for Bacteria 
and Tin. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), p. 679. 

2^ Foods and Cookery: An English Journal. 

22 Isabel Ely Lord: Jour. Home Econ. 9 (1917), p. 375. 

^ F. Stutzel: Sugar Extravagance in Baking. Ztsch. offenta. chemie, 21 (1915), pp. 152-3; 
Abs. in Chem. Zentr., (1915), 2, p. 88. 

" C. P. Plaisance and Helen Monsch: Jour. Home Econ., 9 (1917), p. 167. 



1917] CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD PREPARATION 543 

has the additional advantage according to the above authors of cheapen- 
ing the product. 

In a recent editorial in the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chem- 
istry"^^ attention is called to the possibihty of the greater use of sorghum. 
While the sorghum has not been found to be a profitable source of sucrose 
on account of the difficulty of its crystallization from a solution contain- 
ing so large an admixture of invert sugar, starch, dextrin, and gums, these 
same constituents make them valuable in the industries wherever invert 
sugar is desirable. Since sucrose has been inverted for industrial pur- 
poses, there will be a saving of just so much. 

We can use the sorghum in food preparation wherever the invert sugar 
and the flavor are not a disadvantage and in many cases invert sugar is 
a distinct advantage, especially in retarding crystallization, as a softener, 
and as an aid in the retention of water. Corn sirup may be used in the 
same way. Sorghum has the advantage of being sweeter than corn sirup. 
The use of sorghum sirups as a substitute for the inverted cane-sugar 
sirup is discussed more in detail in an article by Jordan and Chesley.'^* 

McNair" gives tables showing amounts of sugar and water to be added 
to sirups of a known density to obtain those of a required density. These 
should be helpful in the work in preserving where sirups of a definite 
density are desired. 

VEGETABLES 

As a part of the campaign for the conservation of foods it is important 
that vegetables should be prepared so as to retain as large a proportion 
as possible of their soluble constituents. Bodums^^ reports that the ad- 
dition of salt to the water in which potatoes are being boiled protects 
the loss of their soluble constituents. Only 1.25 per cent of starch and 
10 per cent of mineral matter were extracted when the salt was added, 
while if the potatoes were boiled in clear water as much as 33 per cent of 
the mineral matter was lost by solution. 

Blunt and Otis-^ show how great is the loss of iron in boiling vege- 

"/oMr. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), p. 731. 

*^ Jordan and Chesley : Sources and Composition of Some Commercial Invert Sugar Sirups 
with Notes on Sorghum Sirup. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), p. 756. 

2^ McNair: Syrups for Canning and Preserving. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), 
151. 

** Bodums: The Economical Use of Potatoes. Abs. in Chem. Zenlr., (1915), 2, pp. 37-38. 

" Blunt and Otis: Losses of Iron in Cooking Vegetables. Jour, of HomeEcon., 9 (1917), 
p. 213. 



544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

tables, calling attention to the advisability of substituting other methods 
of preparation or the utihzation of the water in which they are boiled. 

Additional importance is attached to the Hquor in which leaf vegeta- 
bles and possibly others are cooked by the finding of the vitamines in 
it. McCollum and Kennedy^" make the following statement: "The 
water in which cabbage is cooked does not produce any ill effect ; on the 
contrary it contains a substance which when fed to pigeons suffering 
from polyneuritis caused by an exclusive diet of polished rice effects a 
cure. " Still we find cookery books and home economics texts recom- 
mending that cabbage be cooked in a large volume of water and that 
water be discarded, in some cases even discarding a second cooking water. 

Another common practice in cookery, that of adding soda without an 
acid to neutralize it in the preparation of foods is to be discouraged.^^ 
Sullivan and Myer account for the prevalence of pellagra in certain sec- 
tions of the south as due, in part, to the custom of adding baking soda 
as a leavening agent to the corn bread without any acid. Feeding ex- 
periments with the bread so prepared gave symptoms of vitamine de- 
ficiency which were relieved when the bread from the same meal proper- 
ly prepared was given. The authors conclude that heating in an alka- 
line solution destroys the vitamine content. While few of us ar6 guilty 
of using sodium bicarbonate alone as a means of leavening, it is frequent- 
ly added to the water in which legumes and certain other vegetables are 
cooked and the effect- on the vitamine content is probably the same. 

CANNED FOODS 

Dickson" gives the summary of several cases of Botulism, poisoning 
by the toxin formed by the B. botulinus. In experiments he found that 
in case the vegetable material is infected with either of the spore bearing 
forms, B. botilinus or B. subtilis, they are not destroyed in the time rec- 
ommended for water bath heating in the government directions for can- 
ning by the cold pack method. He therefore recommends that special 
precautions be taken to see that all the materials so canned be heated 
before being used as food. Since the heating destroys the toxin, such 
materials may be safely used for food after being so treated. 

" McCollum and Kennedy: Jour. Biol. Chem., 24 (1916), p. 491. 

" Voegtlin, Sullivan and Myer: Diet in Relation to Pellagra, U. S. Public Health Reports, 
31 (1916), pp. 935-43. 

•* Dickson: Botulism, the Danger of Poisoning from Vegetables Canned by the Cold Pack 
Method. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 69 (1917), p. 966. See also Editorial in this Journal, 
p. 578. 



1917] CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD PREPARATION 545 

Bigelow33 concludes that the soL'ds of canned foods contain a material- 
ly higher amount of tin than the liquor and this difference is increased 
with the age of the sample. 

COFFEE 

Some recent experiments on coffee making carried out in connection 
with the trades have given rather interesting results. Kennedy^* con- 
cludes: (1) The ease of extraction of coffee is directly proportional to 
the fineness of grinding. (2) Water at 212° is twice as efficient in ex- 
tracting color and flavor as water at 150°. While caffein and caffetannic 
acids are soluble in cold water, the flavoring substances require the 
boiling temperature. 

Bacon^^ concludes that the most palatable brew is obtained at 195°F. 
From the bromotological standpoint, French drip coffee is the best. 

SPICE 

Freda M. Bachmann'^ states that spice in the amounts ordinarily 
used by the housewife do not exert a very considerable preservative 
action. Cinnamon, cloves, and allspice if used in large amounts may 
retard the growth of molds. In combination with vinegar they are 
more effective. Pepper and nutmeg have little effect on the growth 
of micro organisms. Cloves and allspice are effective in large amounts; 
cinnamon is not effective. 

" Bigelow, W. D.: Tin in Canned Foods. Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 8 (1916), p. 813. 

** Kennedy, Wm. M.: Late Studies in Coffee Making. Amer. Food Jour., 9 (1914), p. 
155. 

** Bacon, R. F.: The Efficiency of Coffee Making Devices. Tea and Co_ffeeTraie Jour., 
29 (1915), p. 427. 

" Bachmann, Freda M.: Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 8 (1916), p. 620. 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

SOME RECENT INVESTIGATIONS IN NUTRITION AT THE 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 

ROSEMARY LOUGHLIN 

Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin 

Prof, E. V. McCollum, who has recently left the State University of 
Wisconsin to take charge of the department of chemistry in the new 
School of Hygiene and Public Health of Johns Hopkins University, 
during the past few years has carried on a vast number of feeding ex- 
periments that have distinctly pointed out the value of right diet. 

The method of study has been the feeding of growing animals, chiefly 
rats, with purified food substances, as well as foods obtained from nat- 
ural sources. Varying amounts of proteins, carbohydrates, fats, mineral 
substances, and the food accessories were employed in the rations fed. 
The progress of each animal was carefully watched throughout its life 
cycle. Since a perfect diet makes possible normal growth, reproduction, 
and successful rearing of young at frequent intervals, the value of the 
diet was judged by the response of the animals under investigation. 

After faiUng to secure normal growth in animals on a diet of purified 
food substances, McCollum found that the addition of the ether extract 
of egg yolk or of butter, together with the water extract of various foods, 
caused growth to be resumed. The addition of a water extract of cab- 
bage as well as of potato, egg yolk, wheat embryo, or oats, to a diet con- 
sisting of polished rice, plus inorganic material, a good protein, and 5 
per cent of butter fat, stimulated growth in animals which were greatly 
depleted on a diet which contained the latter substances but lacked the 
water-soluble extract. Similarly a diet which included the water-soluble 
extract but lacked the fat-soluble food accessory failed to produce nor- 
mal growth. 

McCollum concluded from these results that besides the well recog- 
nized food constituents there are necessary for normal nutrition two other 
complexes the chemical nature of which has not yet been determined. 
One of these is associated with certain animal fats (it has never been 
found associated with vegetable oils) and is soluble in fat solvents, while 
the other is soluble in water. Later experiments have shown that the 
fat-soluble accessory is to a certain extent also soluble in water. Until 
these substances shall be further identified McCollum has designated 
them as fat-soluble A and water-soluble B, respectively. 



1917] RECENT INVESTIGATIONS IN NUTRITION 547 

An appreciation of the physiological value of the food accessories 
made possible a more comprehensive study of the naturally occurring 
foods. In these investigations McCollum not only determined the pres- 
ence of the food accessories, but examined the character of the protein 
and inorganic material as well. ^ i 

From these studies he concludes that it is impossible to obtain growth 
over an extended period on a diet restricted to the seeds of plants 
because of the lack of a sufl&cient amount of one or more of the essen- 
tial food constituents. The inorganic content of seeds is insufficient to 
meet the demands of a growing animal. The amount of sodium and 
calcium is too low for physiological well-being. In view of this fact the 
addition of a certain amount of salt (sodium chloride) to cereals has 
distinct dietetic value. In certain sections of the country where the 
water contains an abundance of calcium, this calcium deficiency may 
in part be overcome. 

The inorganic content of the leaf, on the other hand, differs materi- 
ally from that of the seed. This is especially rich in calcium, sodium, 
and chlorine, substances which have been found to be low in the seed. 
In this particular, then, the seeds and leaves supplement each other. 

In other respects seeds and leaves have been found to have supple- 
mentary relationships. The seeds investigated, cereals and certain 
legumes, were found to contain poor proteins, whereas leaves contained 
relatively good proteins; and when reckoned on the dry basis the protein 
content of leaves is not inconsiderable. Rats fed a diet consisting of 
ground corn (maize) 50 per cent, dried alfalfa 30 per cent, and peas 
20 per cent, functioned normally in every respect. 

In general the fat-soluble food accessory was found to be too low in 
seeds to supply the demands of the growing animal; this was true even 
in those seeds which contained fairly large proportions of fat. It is 
interesting to note here that the amount of fat-soluble A has been found 
to be highest in the smaller seeds, such as flax and mUlet. McCollum 
suggests that this is probably due to the relatively large proportion of 
germ in comparison with the endosperm in such seeds. Both leaves and 
seeds contain an abundant supply of water-soluble B. In the cereals, 
however, this may be modified by the process of milling, since much of 
the water-soluble food accessory has been found to be located in the 
embryo. The association of the unidentified dietary factors A and B 
with the functioning cell may account for the exceptional richness of 



548 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the leaf in these factors, for the leaf, being the seat of great synthetic 
activity, consists of a relatively large number of functioning cells. 

An exclusively vegetable diet selected with adequate knowledge of its 
properties may insure complete nutrition, but a diet which also includes 
meat, eggs, and especially milk, is far safer. This is particularly true 
when considered from the standpoint of proteins, for when proteins 
are selected from several sources they will probably not be lacking in 
the same amino acids. The animal proteins supply those anoino 
acid complexes which are essential to the animal organism in very 
nearly the same proportion as is found in the human body. Many of 
the vegetable proteins, on the other hand, have been found to be in- 
complete from the point of view of human nutrition. Some lack 
essential amino acids, while others contain them in insufl&cient amounts. 
It has been somewhat disconcerting to have to give up the widely 
accepted theory that the legumes can take the place of animal pro- 
teins in the dietary; but McCollum has found that both peas and 
the white bean contain poor proteins and therefore cannot exclusively 
take the place of meat, milk, and eggs. It is interesting to note that 
gelatin, which has long been considered to consist of a poor protein, 
becomes of considerable importance when used to supplement the protein 
of some of the cereals. Animals fed both wheat and oats to which 
small amounts of gelatin, together with a suitable inorganic material 
and fat-soluble A were added made normal growth, whereas those 
which were fed a similar diet containing no gelatin suflFered nutritive 
disaster. Gelatin apparently contains those amino acids which are 
either low or lacking in certain cereal seeds. It does not, however, sup- 
plement the proteins of maize or of peas and beans. 

McCollum has definitely proved that beri-beri is a dietary deficiency 
disease due to a lack of the water-soluble food accessory. The addition 
of water-soluble B to polished rice produces more nearly normal growth ; 
however, polished rice is lacking in certain other respects. Like cereal 
seeds in general it contains a poor protein, too small an amount of a 
suitable inorganic material, and too little fat-soluble A. 

We are warned, however, against the idea that certain other diseases, 
such as pellagra, richitis, and scurvy, the etiology of which is at present 
obscure, are necessarily dietary deficiency diseases. Symptoms similar 
to those of scurvy have been produced in a large number of guinea pigs 
on a diet of oats and whole milk. Since this condition is relieved by laxa- 
tives such as phenolphthalein, or liquid petroleum, it seems probable that 



1917] RECENT INVESTIGATIONS IN NUTRITION 549 

scurvy is due to retention of feces in the coecum. The antiscorbutic 
action of orange juice McColIum believes may well be accounted for by 
the laxative action of the contained potassium and sodium citrates, and 
the tendency of citric acid to keep down the development of certain types 
of bacteria. 

A consideration of the diet of the pellagrin suggests that the disease 
is due to a combination of foods in which there is an insufficient amount 
of more than one of the essential dietary factors : fat-soluble A, suitable 
inorganic material, and physiologically good proteins. McCollum points 
out that an unfavorable proportion among the well recognized con- 
stituents of the diets as well as of the recently appreciated food accessories, 
together with the unsatisfactory physical factors of the pellagrin's diet, 
and injury wrought through the agency of microorganisms inhabiting 
the ahmentary tract will account for all the observed types of patho- 
logical phenomena. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

McCollum, E. V. and Davis, Marguerite: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1913, 15, 167; 1914, 19, 245; 

1915, 20, 415; 1915, 20, 641; 1915, 21, 179; 1915, 21, 615; 1915, 23, 181; 1915, 23, 

231. 
McCollum, E. V. and Kennedy, Cornelia: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1916, 24, 491.. McCollum, 

E. v., Simmonds N. and Pitz, W: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1916, 28, 153; 1916, 28, 

483; 1917, 29, 341; 1917, 29, 521; 1917, 30, 13. 
McCollum, E. V. and Pitz, W.: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1917, 31, 229. 
McCollum, E. V. and Simmonds N.: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1917, 32, 29. 
McCollum, E. v.: Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 1917, 68, 1379. 



INTERRUPTIONS 



So long as there is work to do there will be interruptions — breaks 
in its progress. And it is a part of one's character growth to bear 
these timely or untimely interruptions without any break in good 
temper or courtesy. — Business Men's Calendar. 



550 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

SOME RECENT MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON THE STANDARD 

OF LIVING 

LORINDA PERRY 
Department of Household Science, University of Illinois 

The wide range of topics covered in a course on the Economics of the 
Family Group, the scattered sources of information, the fact that much 
is still to be done in correlating the material which has appeared, pre- 
sents difficulties in such an article as this. Much of the important new 
material in Economics does not appear in magazine articles, as is so fre- 
quently the case with the natural sciences, but in books, which would 
require too much space and discussion to present. Then, too, the nature 
of the subject matter is such that it cannot adequately be summarized 
in a few sentences; often the way in which the conclusion has been 
reached is as important as the conclusion itself. 

To retain coherence in somewhat scattered material, and to keep this 
paper within reasonable bounds, the subject has been rather arbitrarily 
limited to a presentation of some recent magazine articles pertaining to 
the standard of living. The scope of this article has necessarily been 
determined and Umited by the subject matter of the articles quoted. 
For various reasons, reports upon market conditions have been omitted. 
The period covered is approximately from January, 1916, to September, 
1917, inclusive. 

The question of the standard of living is one of the most important in 
the theory of consumption. Professor Marshall has defined it as the 
standard of wants and of activities. It has been called the dynamics 
of the theory of consumption. The desire to maintain or to improve a 
given standard of living is one of the strongest incentives to progress, 
and one of the greatest bars to retrogression. 

The standard of living, accepting Professor Marshall's definition, is 
interwoven with the most perplexing questions of living. Consideration 
of it is not confined to economics or to sociology. Aid in solving its 
problems comes from physiology, biology, chemistry, ethics, and religion. 

It is said that welfare can be increased as much by a better ordering 
of consumption as by increased production, and that, too, without any 
real retrenchment in consumption. To teach the values of foods and 
the principles of nutrition, to set better, truer values in expenditures for 
clothing and house furnishings, to bring about better Hving conditions. 



1917] MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON STANDARDS OF LIVING 551 

is to bring about a better ordering of consumption and thus an improve- 
ment in the standard of Hving. To a very large degree the value of home 
economics should be measured in its effect upon the standard of living. 
The problems, then, of the standard of hving are of interest to the 
worker in home economics. 

An article on the ''Implications of a Standard of Living"^ is stimulat- 
ing and interesting, not so much for the manner and thoroughness of 
discussion as for the range of topics considered, illustrating the many 
ramifications of the subject, and opening up many suggestive lines of 
thought from many authors, though no new point of view is presented. 

A brief resume of the points touched upon will suffice. An increase 
in the standard of living is possible with the increasing control of man 
over the forces of nature, enabling him not only to satisfy his wants with 
less expenditure of labor, but to develop new wants of a more varied and 
of a higher nature. A standard of Uving is developed slowly, and once 
destroyed cannot easily be rebuilt. 

The imitative character of our standards, their relation to marriage, 
to the birthrate, and to what some consider the increasing instability of 
the family, and some of the economic advantages of a high standard, are 
touched upon. The article is decidedly sketchy in character, and no 
one point is exhaustively analyzed, yet it does open up many avenues 
of thought in connection with the standard of living. 

Much emphasis has been placed upon the importance of maintaining 
a high standard of living. The question as to whether our standards of 
living, and especially those of the laboring class are decreasing under 
present conditions is raised in several articles. Hopeful observers, usu- 
ally in the majority, noting the enormous increase in the production of 
goods which has occurred in the last century, and noting also an increase 
in wages, rest contented that the standard, if not improving, is at least 
holding its own. Others, with eyes upon the mounting cost of living, 
have seriously doubted whether there has been any recent improvement, 
and even affirm that the standard has been lowered. 

Economists differentiate between "real" and "money" income. A 
knowledge of the money income of a family means very little until that 
money is translated into terms of goods and services which the family en- 
joys from the expenditure of it These goods and services constitute 
the real income. What the real income of the family is varies with many 

^Hexter, M. B.: Implications of a Standard of Living. Amer. Jour. Soc, v. 22, pp. 
212-225. 



552 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

factors, chief among which are money income, the prices of the arti- 
cles for which the money is spent, and the capacity to expend money. 

If, over a period of years, the income increases at a swifter rate than 
the cost of the goods for which it is expended, other things being equal, 
the standard will increase. If the amount of the income and the cost 
of goods increase at the same rate, no loss nor gain is experienced. But 
if the price of goods increases at a swifter rate than the amount of 
income, the standard of Hving must be modified or lowered, unless some 
way can be devised of meeting the increase in cost of goods. It is 
under such conditions that the problem of the cost of living usually arises. 

The standard of living is thus largely determined by two variables — 
the amount of income and the prices of goods for which that income 
is expended. To ascertain the course of the standard of living of any 
group, it is necessary to know the amount of income received by the 
families in that group, and the amount, kind, and price of goods entering 
into the consumption of these families at different times. Obviously 
both kinds of data are difficult to obtain. 

Attempts have been made to determine the course of the standard of 
living of working people by comparing the wages received in various 
industries with the cost of food for which the larger part of these wages is 
spent. This is because expenditures for food constitute the bulk of the 
expenditures of the ordinary family, and wages are the chief source of 
income for a large per cent of our population. 

The federal government publishes data as to wages in specified indus- 
tries, and the retail prices of certain foods in various parts of the country. 
Relative prices are computed for each article of food so that changes 
in the course of the price of any one commodity can easily be deter- 
mined and followed. A relative price of any article is the percent 
which the price of that article at any given date is of the price of the 
same article at a date or period selected as the base, and considered, 
for purposes of comparison, as 100. Index numbers are then con- 
structed to show changes in the course of the prices of a group of 
articles taken as a whole. The index number consists of a combina- 
tion of individual commodity prices in such a way as to form a 
general relative price for a group of commodities. It may be either 
a simple arithmetic average, or a weighted arithmetic average, in which 
the more important commodities are counted more than once accord- 
ing to their importance in the consumption of the average working- 
man's family as determined by the cost of living study conducted by 



1917] MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON STANDARDS OF LIVING 553 

the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics in 1901. For the years 
1890-1907, the Federal Government published retail prices and com- 
puted index numbers for 30 articles of food constituting about 95 per 
cent of the total food expenditures of the average workingman's fam- 
ily in 1901. This was discontinued until 1912 when publishing of 
retail prices was resumed for 15 articles of food constituting about 
64 per cent of the average workingman's expenditures for food in 
1901. The data were obtained from a smaller number of cities and 
of retail establishments." 

In the December number of the American Economic Review for 1914,^ 
Dr. I. M. Rubinow attempted to bring down to date (1912) the "index 
number of what might be termed real wages," which the government 
had discontinued pubhshing in 1907. Upon the basis of statistical 
methods explained in that article he came to the conclusion that the 
purchasing power of weekly wages as measured by retail prices of food, 
assuming the average real wage between 1890 and 1899 to be 100, had 
decreased from 100.2 in 1900 to 85.3 in 1912, a decrease of 14.9 points, 
and from 97.7 in 1907 to 85.3 in 1912, a decrease of 12.4 points or 12.7 
per cent. His general conclusion was that the purchasing power of 
wages in 1913 was not much higher than in 1870. This conclusion was 
generally accepted by economists, although it was apparently contra- 
dicted by observation of the increase in comforts in the homes of work- 
ingmen. The increase in the number of women and especially of mar- 
ried women employed in industry and contributing to the family income, 
and the smaller size of the family were Dr. Rubinow 's explanation of 
the apparent contradictions. 

Mr. F. W. Jones^ in an article in the American Economic Review, con- 
siders that Dr. Rubinow 's conclusions are too gloomy. When the Fed- 
eral Government in 1912 resumed the publishing of the retail prices of 
food, the new index was constructed on the prices of only 15 of the 30 
articles formerly quoted. By the construction of new index numbers 
for the 15 articles quoted and the 15 articles omitted, he showed that 
the 15 articles quoted had increased in price at a swifter rate than those 
omitted, exaggerating somewhat the increase in the cost of food of the 
workingman. Nevertheless, while the situation may not be as gloomy 

2 See Retail Prices 1907 to December, 1914. Bulletin No. 156, United States Department 
of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, p. 357ff . 

' Rubinow, I. M.: The Present Trend of Real Wages. Annals Amer. Acad, of Pol. and 
Soc. Set., V. 69, pp. 28-33. 

* Jones, F. W. Real Wastes in Recent Years. Amer. Econ. Rev., v. 7, pp. 319-330. 



554 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

as pictured by Dr. Rubinow, the author comes to the conclusion that 
real wages as measured by the retail prices of food entering into the 
budget of the workingman had decreased rather than increased. 

Dr. Rubinow, in the article previously referred to,* calls attention to 
the continued decrease in the purchasing power of wages since 1912 as 
shown in a bulletin (No. 194) of the United States Bureau of Labor Statis- 
tics. The weekly earnings of organized labor had increased steadily from 
1907 to 1915, but this increase was more than cancelled by the greater 
increase in the cost of food for which the wages are paid. This tendency 
is shown also in the wages of various specified industries, so that, very 
probably, the real wages as measured in the retail prices of food declined 
steadily until the war. What has happened since the war began is diffi- 
cult to tell, but it is doubtful whether the abnormally high wages received 
in a few war industries or the decreased competition from immigration 
have enabled the majority of the American working men to regain what 
had been lost. 

The preceding conclusions as to the course of the standard of living of 
the workingman are based upon a study of the purchasing power of wages 
earned by men, measured in terms of retail prices of food, and not upon 
the total family income. Professor Fairchild,^ feeling that the question 
of the direction of the course of the wage-earner's standard of Hving is 
"too vital to be left to random guesses and rash assumptions," and that 
the orthodox view that the standard of Hving was improving is erroneous, 
arrived, by a difl'erent method, at practically the same conclusion as Dr. 
Rubinow and Mr. King — that we are not justified in beUeving that the 
standard of living of the workingman is increasing. Professor Fairchild 
beheves that the increase in prices in recent years has affected dift'erent 
classes of commodities differently, being greater in the common everyday 
necessities of life, and least in the luxuries. His plan was to work out 
what he calls a standard budget consisting of a list of definite commodi- 
ties of all classes of expenditure which enter into the actual budget of 
the ordinary family and constitute the bulk of wage expenditure. These 
he called necessities, all above being comforts and luxuries. After de- 
termining the cost of such a standard budget in the two years to be com- 
pared, the amount left for luxuries would measure the relative height of 
the standards of the two periods. 

The articles of the standard budget were determined by Professor 

» Fairchild, Henry Pratt: The Standard of Living— Up or Down? Amer. Econ. Rev., v. 
6, pp. 9-25. 



1917] MAGAZINE ARTICLES ON STANDARDS OF LIVING 555 

Fairchild from a study of the actual budgets reported by workingmen 's 
families in such standard of living studies as Chapin's, More's, Kenn- 
gott's, Nearing's. The data for these studies were collected about the 
year 1908. The standard family consisted of five people — father, 
mother, and three children under fourteen years, — living upon an income 
of $600, selected as the dividing line between skilled and unskilled labor 
earnings. The years compared were 1908 and 1890. He estimated the 
proportion of the total family income spent in 1908 for the various classes 
of necessaries as: food 48 per cent ($288), shelter 20 per cent ($120), 
clothing 12 per cent ($72), heat and light 6 per cent ($36), leaving 14 per 
cent ($84) for comforts. He then made up an estimate of the specific 
items included in each of the four divisions, which would require too|much 
space to repeat. The cost of these items equalled the amount alloted 
for each class of necessities in the year 1908. 

In ascertaining their cost for 1890, he used the index numbers for 
the retail price of food and found that the yearly food could be pur- 
chased for $226.72 as compared with $288 in 1908. In estimating the 
rent, which he had placed at $120 per year in 1908, he took into consid- 
eration observations as to the course of rents of himself and of others, 
scattered references in articles appearing about 1890, and the tendency 
for rents to increase with increasing population and with the increase in 
the cost of buildings and of upkeep, and decided that shelter which could 
be obtained for $120 in 1908 would cost $96 in 1890. 

The cost of clothing in 1890 was arrived at by the use of the federal 
government index numbers of wholesale prices of a number of articles of 
clothing, which after all would overstate rather than understate the 
prices of 1890. The yearly budget of clothes costing $72.00 in 1908, 
amounted to $68.51 in 1890. The estimate of the cost of the budget 
allowance of fuel and light, based on index numbers of wholesale prices, 
was placed at $31.62. The total cost of the standard budget in 1890 
was $422.85 as contrasted with $516 in 1908. 

Since the standard of living depends upon two variables, it is necessary 
to estimate the income v;hich the same grade of family receiving $600 
in 1908 would receive in 1890, and the author concluded that this yearly 
income would be $500 in 1890. Subtracting the cost of necessities in 
1890, $77.15, or 15.4 per cent of the total income remained to be spent for 
cultural wants, as contrasted with 14 per cent in 1908. This would meas- 
ure the comparative heights of the standards of living of the American 
workingman in 1890 and in 1908. While such evidence is no proof of a 



556 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

higher standard of Hving in 1890 than in 1908, yet it does support such 
a claim. At least, as the author says, it is strong evidence against ''the 
right of anybody to assert with serene confidence that the standard of 
living of the American common laborer has improved in the past thirty 
years, " 

Thus while Dr. Rubinow concludes that real wages as expressed 
in retail prices have lowered, that if the standard has been maintained 
or improved it has been because of the increased employment of women 
outside the home, Professor Fairchild asserts from a study of the total 
family budget that it is questionable if the standard of living has been 
improved. It may be, however, that Professor Fairchild in estimating 
the total family income in 1890, did not make sufficient allowance for 
the smaller number contributing to it by employment outside the home. 

Jlist what does this discussion of the course of the standard of living 
of the workingman 's family mean to the worker in home economics — to 
the housewife? It shows that there are real grounds for serious doubt 
as to whether the standards of the majority of people are improving. It 
shows that the cost of living problem, in the sense that prices of goods 
for which income is spent have increased more rapidly than the income, 
has only been accentuated and not originated by the war, and is there- 
fore not a temporary problem. Improvements in the standard of living 
can come about in two ways, (1) through increase in the purchasing pow- 
er of the consumer, either because of increased income or cheaper goods 
or both, or (2) through the better consumption of goods, the result large- 
ly of the elimination of waste by the application of scientific and business 
principles in the home. Better and truer standards must be established, 
and home economics will play an important part in such an estabhshing. 

Some idea of the increase in the cost of food which has occurred since 
the war may be obtained from the series of reports on ''Retail prices of 
food in the United States, " which appear more or less regularly in the 
Monthly Review of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Monthly 
reports of retail prices of certain articles of food are received from a large 
number of retail establishments catering to the working class in various 
parts of the country. Relative prices are constructed for each article 
so that it is possible to follow the course of prices for each article reported. 

Since the war, new commodities were added to the original 15, so 
that now quotations are given for 26 or 27 articles of food, and for all 
commodities combined in a simple arithmetic average. In this way it 



1917] MAGAZn^ ARTICLES ON STANDARDS OF LIVING 557 

is possible to follow monthly changes in the course of average retail 
prices of specified food articles and of all articles combined. 

Caution must be employed in the use of the index number for all com- 
modities combined. So many factors enter in to determine the cost of 
hving that index numbers of the increase in cost must be used gingerly 
in specific cases. The index number of all commodities combined and 
weighted may be misleading. It assumes that there has been no change 
in consumption since 1901. Very probably with the increase in the 
cost of certain articles of food, many famihes — the majority of families — 
have either consciously or unconsciously modified their food habits to 
adjust to the increase in the cost of food. Newer and cheaper substitutes 
for old foods have entered into the diet of most families. Yet the basis 
of weighting for all commodities as given in the index number does not 
allow for this adjustment, since it is based upon the amount of the 
specified articles of food consumed in the average workingman 's family 
in 1901. No changes can be made, of course, except upon another in- 
vestigation. 

An article in an Enghsh journaP illustrates this objection and brings 
out several problems of the cost of living. The Board of Trade of Eng- 
land has published each month since July, 1914, index numbers showing 
the increase in the retail prices of all the principal articles of food, and a 
general index number for all food, obtained by combining the different 
articles in the proportion to be found in the typical working class family 
budget. 

If the Board of Trade index number says there is 50 per cent increase, 
does it mean that if the level of a pre-war standard is maintained, food 
bills of approximately all households will increase in that proportion? 

The author found that among her friends of the middle class, with no 
obvious change in standard, the increase was less than that indicated by 
the Board of Trade index number, but that the cost for the working class 
families seems to have risen to a greater extent. The size of the income 
and the scale of living of middle class families before the war were such 
as to permit of modifications in diet to meet the increased cost without 
a noticeable change in the standard. This was brought about by the 
substitution of cheaper foods for the more expensive ones, or of cheaper 
for more expensive qualities of the same food. This, however, the poorer 

* Woods, Frances: The Increase in the Cost of Food for Different Classes of Society 
since the Outbreak of the War. Jour. Roy. Stat. Soc. Land., v. 79, pp. 501-508. 



558 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

classes find difficult to do, as there is less room or opportunity for varia- 
tion or substitution and they, as a rule, are consuming the poorer quality 
of food. Again the author believes that when there is more than one 
quahty of an article sold, the cheaper quahties have increased more 
rapidly in price than the more expensive. In some cases the Board of 
Trade gives an index number for the cheaper grades, but in most in- 
stances the index number is based upon the average prices for all quali- 
ties, thus showing the condition of the poorer classes as more favorable, 
of the middle class as less favorable, than they actually are. 

A comparison of the prices of the cheaper cuts and grades of meat 
with those of the more expensive, illustrates this point. In England, for- 
eign meats are less expensive than British meats, and since the war have 
increased in price much more rapidly than the latter. This is especially 
true of the cheaper cuts. The fact that part of the greater increase in 
price of foreign meats may be attributed to increased cost of ocean trans- 
portation, and part to increased demand from the army for the cheaper 
quahties and cuts, may serve to vitiate these conclusions as applied to 
normal times. The conclusion is that the increase in the cost of living 
since the war has fallen most heavily upon the poorer classes, on account 
of the greater increase in the cost of those articles which they consume, 
and because of their inability to meet the increase by variation in diet. 
Index numbers were constructed for various classes based upon the 
average prices of goods of the quahty consumed by each class. A much 
greater increase than tliat indicated by the present index number oc- 
curred in the prices of the food which the poorer classes consumed, and 
a smaller increase for the wealthier classes. Index numbers are of 
value in showing the increase in the price of food for the country as a 
whole, as an average for the different classes of society, but cannot be 
accepted as representing at all closely the actual experience of any par- 
ticular class of society, or of any particular individual. This is true also 
of the index numbers of the retail prices of food in the United States. 

To he continued 



1917] MOBILIZING THE NATION'S CHILDREN 559 

MOBILIZING THE NATION'S CHILDREN FOR RED CROSS 

ERNESTmE EVANS 

American Red Cross 

Twenty-two miUion American children went back to school in Sep- 
tember. It was the end of a vacation not like any other summer of their 
lives. They returned to school with a spirit not like anything that the 
oldest of them can remember. There are — there cannot help being — 
soberer young faces bending over books in the little red school houses of 
the rural counties and the imposing stone technical high schools of the 
great cites, for this winter wiU find the fathers and brothers of many of 
these children in the cantonments of the National Army. 

The old and the young are learning their new lessons together. In 
the school rooms children are begging daily for a chance to help, while 
teachers, with a new enthusiasm, are ^asking {what they can teach to 
make the fittest citizens for the new America. 

The Junior Red Cross is an answer to a great need. For months and 
months, in may places for three years, children have been at work. 
Sometimes in httle scattered groups, the young girls watched their 
mothers sew for the Belgian refugees or knit for the poilus of France 
and the soldiers of Princess Pat, while they picked up the threads and 
undid the bastings, and held the yarn. Sometimes they made collec- 
tions for the Christmas presents of "our little sisters and brothers over 
there. " 

Last year, all over the country, under the auspices of the Red Cross 
Chapters, or under the guidance of the schools, an outlet was found in 
work for the hundreds of thousands of busy helpful little fingers and over- 
flowing hearts. What was done not only served as an expression of the 
impulse of thousands of children to help, but enormous boxes of supplies 
worth many thousands of dollars were dispatched abroad. They were 
of excellent workmanship, often equal to anything that the mothers 
had made. As a single instance nearly seven hundred hospital garments 
and bandages were made last spring by the girls of the Saunders Trade 
School in Yonkers, New York. 

The New Junior Red Cross, based on that experience, now makes it 
possible for schools everywhere to undertake a share in the Red Cross 
task. Dr. H. N. McCracken, President of Vassar College, is devoting 
himself to the nation-wide adoption of the plan recently approved by 



560 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

the Red Cross War Council. There is to be a Junior Red Cro£> member- 
ship open to all school children in schools, public, private, or parochial, 
in the United States, the Phihppines, Alaska, and the Canal Zone. 

After membership has been granted to a school, and a sum for dues 
equal to 25 cents for each pupil has been deposited with the local chapter 
School Fund, the school can fly a Red Cross flag, and its students each 
wear a Red Cross membership pin. Some discretion is allowed the local 
chapter school committee in administering this requirement, for it is 
not intended that any school shall be excluded if it finds the member- 
ship dues difficult to meet. 

In general matters, of course, the school authorities will cooperate 
with the local Red Cross Chapter, but the principal of the school will be 
the Chairman of the Red Cross Auxiliary that has been formed in this 
manner. It will be left to the teachers and pupils to find the best way 
to work for the cause of the country 's army and navy. The school must 
always do work that comes up to the Red Cross standard of acceptance. 
Whether the school is organized by grades or classes as a single group 
will be a matter for each school to decide. 

Few people realize how much has already been done. In Chicago, 
where for a great many months patriotic spirit has been high and practi- 
cal among the younger generation, the children last year made so many 
kinds of things that the result is a thrilling story. Only lately they sent 
700 ration heaters in a set of comfort kits made by their mothers and 
aunts for the men in the Alpine trenches where coal was scarce. They 
have rolled newspapers, boiled them in parafl&n, and cut them into can- 
dle lengths. For months they have been making little woollen afghan 
quilts for the refugee babies and toddlers of Belgium by knitting 5-inch 
squares and sewing these together, five one way, and six the other. 
These are not all they have knitted. Many a young girl who used to 
triumph at jack stones and jumping double Dutch has put away a skip- 
ping rope, and turned her nimble young fingers to work on gray and 
khaki mufflers for the bluejackets who are now training at the Great 
Lakes Naval Station for U-boat catching in the icy North Atlantic, or 
for the men at Fort Sheridan who are to go with the winter transports. 
Last spring boys in one school in Evanston, Illinois, made hundreds 
of knitting needles and shellacked them. They also used their scroll 
saws to make bass wood splints — invaluable in French hospital work. 
Many of the smaUer boys served as errand boys in the local Red Cross 
Chapter rooms. Older boys rolled bandages, and younger ones made 
fracture pillows and filled them with oakum moss. 



191 7 J MOBILIZING THE NATION'S CHILDREN 561 

One boys' school in the Adirondacks has begun to collects phagnum 
moss for hospital pads, and their botany teacher has gone with them into 
the woods to identify this absorbent moss that has been used so often in 
British hospitals these last two years when cotton has been scarce and 
high. So far, much of the best work has been done in the domestic science 
departments of the high schools and grammar schools, where, under the 
supervision of the sewing teachers, girls who used to make endless prin- 
cess slips and the like for themselves have learned to make fine seams 
and buttonholes and to cut their patterns accurately while manufac- 
turing the bed shirts and pajamas for a base hospital in France. 

Several New York schools made arrangements last spring for a special 
Red Cross sewing hour which took the last half hour of regular school 
time and a volunteer half hour of work on the part of teacher and pupils 
after dismissal time. 

In Buffalo, New York, last spring, 1600 garments were made by the 
eighth and ninth grades. In Troy, the children earned a thousand dol- 
lars from entertainments, and promptly put it all into Red Cross sup- 
plies. One of the Troy Red Cross Chapter workers interested in member- 
ship afterwards said: "You have no idea how the children's enthu- 
siasm made things easier for us. We came to parents to whom the 
Red Cross was no new thing. Their children had already made them 
members in spirit." 

The new Junior membership will make it possible for the spirit of Amer- 
ica 's youngest and truly generous generation to make itself felt in the 
trenches. Their names and their messages will go in Christmas parcels. 
Red Cross made and Red Cross forwarded, and every message will be 
like a sprig of cheerful home holly, to the soldier who opens the package. 
Besides, garment making will serve a double purpose; it will help the 
Red Cross and stimulate a new spirit of workmanship. This will con- 
stitute vocational instruction of the highest order. 

The 22,000,000 new workers for the American Red Cross are, after 
all, the members that count the most. They are the future of America. 

Writing of the new Junior membership to Mr. MacCracken, 
President Wilson said : 

If you have an opportunity will you bid the young people, whom 
you are assembling in this organization, a very warm welcome from me 
and give them a message of the heartiest good cheer as they enroll them- 
selves among the servants of the nation and of the people everywhere who 
need help and comfort and encouragement? 

I think they will all look back upon this work they are undertaking as 
a happy circumstance of their school days. 



562 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

EXTENSION WORK IN MILL VILLAGES 

MARY E. FRAYSER 
Formerly State Agent far South Carolina 

Home economics extension work, in operation in the cotton mill vil- 
lages of South CaroUna, parallels that of the home demonstration work 
in rural communities. The mill village instead of the county is the unit 
of organization, and the social worker is a community agent. 

There are twenty cotton miU villages in South Carolina organized for 
community improvement, each working under the trained leadership 
of a local worker, and under the supervision of a State Agent for Mill 
Community Work. The work is home economics in the broadest sense, 
for it seeks to conserve the home through reaching and training the in- 
dividuals who compose it. 

The work began in 1915, under the supervision of Winthrop and Clem- 
son Colleges and the United States Department of Agriculture. Ac- 
cording to their cooperative agreement, $100 per year was offered to 
each mill village which would bear the rest of the expense incident to 
the work, i.e., the balance of salary of the local worker, and the main- 
tenance cost of the work, from $800 to $1200 per year. In nearly every 
instance this sum was given by the mill management. Sometimes in- 
dividuals contributed. In two instances church guilds financed the 
undertaking. In one village the mill operatives formed an organization, 
and their dues paid a portion of the salary of the social worker. 

In every instance the mill president has given quarters for the com- 
munity work. This building is the center of the social life of the village. 
Whenever possible, it is the geographical as well as the spiritual center. 
Some of these buildings have been planned and erected for the purpose; 
others are just remodeled mill cottages. All contain a reading room, a 
room for in-door games, and a kitchen laboratory. Some also have a 
dining-room, a big auditorium, a dispensary, a dental room, a swimming 
pool, and shower baths. 

However finely conceived the plan for mill village improvement may 
be, it is impossible to put it into operation without the interest, good 
will, and financial backing of the mill management. The mill people 
are not yet self-reliant enough to take action. They do not understand 
cooperation. The organization of mill villages in the South is still 
feudalistic. The state should, and soon will, incorporate the mill towns, 



1917] EXTENSION WORK IN MILL VILLAGES 563 

and the people will learn the principles of local self-government. This 
work is planned to make the people ready for that day and to help them 
to bring it to pass. It is constructive. Its purpose is to draw the people 
into the full current of Hfe, to quicken their spirits, to make them feel 
that the opportunities of life are for them as well as for another, and 
lastly to give definite instruction which will increase the efficiency of the 
individual, and improve the status of the home. 

It is possible to undertake work along a good many lines and still do 
it intensively, since each agent 's activities are confined to one or two vil- 
lages, and but little time is lost in getting to her group. Usually she 
lives among them. These young women work with the people and not 
for them. The agent is "a promoter, " a promoter of activities that are 
worth while, and an inducer of the "get together" spirit. It is not 
easy to find the right woman for this work; but she can be found, and 
her enthusiasm and consecration grow as she stimulates growth in others. 

School children, mill girls, and grown women are taught home making. 
This summer, at each of the centers, garden products were canned by 
the people under an expert. Much of the responsibility for community 
improvement may be thrown upon groups drawn together for such 
practical purposes. It is interesting to watch the awakening which 
attends the study of "What foods shall I give my family for breakfast, 
dinner, and supper today? " A new club member of one of these organi- 
zations was asked last year to submit a menu for Thanksgiving dinner. 
Her choice was candied yam, rice, creamed white potatoes, macaroni, 
a roast, and bread-pudding. Some one showed her the error of her 
way. But it is fine upon fine and precept upon precept! 

Many of the adult members of mUl villages are illiterate. Some of 
the "teen" age also are illiterate.' Dr. Curry once asked a southern 
parent, " Why do you not send your child to school? " "We of the South 
are too poor to send our children to school," was the reply. "We of 
the South are too poor not to send our children to school, " was the emi- 
nent educator 's response. 

If there is no night school in the community, the local agent cooper- 
ates with the school authorities and mill management to open one, 
and teaches in it two nights a week for six months a year. During the 
time she teaches, she is amenable to the school authorities. If there 
is a night school in operation when the organized work is begun, she 
lends it her moral support. She knows Just how many children there 
are in her village who ought to be in the day school, but are not. She 
knows, too, the number eligible for night school. 



564 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The community agent organizes the people for recreation. A play- 
ground with some equipment is furnished by the mill management. 
Much that is fine results under the heads of health and team spirit. It 
is inspiring to see the play-grounds on a Saturday afternoon, or at night 
during the open season. 

The community worker arranges night meetings at which topics of 
current interest are discussed by able speakers. People engaged in a 
part time process, endlessly repeated, requiring no initiative, are apt to 
think in a dull round. To get such interested in what others are think- 
ing of is worth while. That many of the young men are going into the 
army and navy is serving to link the interest of the village folk with 
world wide affairs. The growth that came to some of those who went 
to Mexico was wonderful. 

The cotton mill village people are "country people come to town." 
They sinned against the laws of sanitation in the open country, where, 
perhaps, they did not pay the price; but in a big group the individual 
or the other fellow must do so. In some counties in South Carolina, 
there are no county health officers. In cases of contagious or infectious 
diseases, there is no one to enforce isolation of the patient and family. 
The community agent gets the mill management to cooperate and wins 
the people's trust so that they will be guided by her. To show the 
mother what to do and how to do it, she must have had a course in 
home nursing. 

There are clean-up days and lessons in civic responsibility taught 
through the children's organizations. There are Boy Scouts and Camp 
Fire Girls. The community agent does not lead all of these groups; she 
interests people capable of helping, and she develops leadership among 
the villagers. 

In each of the twenty villages there was observance of Baby Week in 
May. In many instances there was examination of the children by 
competent physicians, and instruction of the mothers concerning their 
care. The community agent sought and won the cooperation of the 
women of her village, of the physicians and trained nurses necessary, 
and SiiteTwa.Tds followed up the work. 

A community laundry is a goal to be achieved. The mill women do the 
week's wash in the yards at all seasons, and boil the clothes in a black 
iron pot, set up on bricks, with fire beneath. Two mill presidents 
are considering the installation of laundry equipment, with the delivery 
of the clothes rough dry as a beginning. 



191 7 J EXTENSION WORK 565 

The Community Fair is the community event of the village calendar. 
Specimens of work done in class and independently are exhibited. 
Household relics, flowers, vegetables, canned products, pickles, pre- 
serves, cakes, bread, homemade fireless cookers, iceless refrigerators, 
and baby beds, all these and much else are shown. Perhaps the quilts 
are most typical, so many there are, and of such varied patterns. 

The interest of the day centers around the addresses and our-door ath- 
letics, and reaches its climax at the barbecue. A fine social spirit pervades 
the group. Everybody is happy. The community worker looks on with 
tired but grateful eyes. She knows that a httle of her dream has come 
true. 

Once a year the young women who are serving in the mill villages are 
called in to Winthrop College for a short course in social service. This 
class instruction and conference are invaluable. It is proof of the in- 
terest of the mill presidents that they permit these young women, engaged 
because they are trained workers, to come for two weeks without sacri- 
fice of pay to secure further training. 



EXTENSION WORK^ 

HENRIETTA CALVIN 
Specialist in Home Economics, U. S. Bureau of Education 

The extension work as I see it over the country has made me feel 
there is something started that is the greatest educational effort that has 
ever been undertaken in the United States. 

In the South there are nearly 1000 women who are devoting their en- 
tire attention to 15 southern states. They have in South Carolina 45 
county agents. Sometimes there are three county agents in one county, 
headed by a supervisor; in some counties they have 85 per cent of all 
the white women in the county. A woman is a "home demonstrator" 
when she stays at home and demonstrates newer methods of doing her 
work. The county agent gives them topics and meets with them, 

^ Part of the discussion of Extension Work at the meeting of the .\merican Home Eco- 
nomics Association held in connection with the N. E. A., Portland, Ore., July, 1917. 



566 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

When those southern agents get together and tell how many homes 
have been screened, how they have campaigned for running water in the 
houses, for fireless cookers and iceless refrigerators, it seems to me that 
is a very wonderful work for anyone to enter. It is hard to find the 
right people for county agents. They must know their subject, must 
know the practical application of it; they must have the wisdom of a 
serpent and the harmlessness of a dove, be diplomatic as ambassadors, 
have unlimited health, and a willingness to give themselves body and 
soul. Besides these qualifications they should have a reasonable ability 
to speak to a group of people; and when they have all of these, the Ex- 
tension Service is a wonderful opportunity for teaching. 

County agents down South are brought into a county by club women, 
who camp on the trail of the county officers, and do not rest until they 
induce the county officers to put in a county agent, or wish they had. 

The county agent generally has an ofl5ce where she can meet people 
when they come to town, where they can bring their problems to her, 
or call on her for assistance; she meets with a new group of people every 
day, and plans demonstrations, receives reports of demonstrations, or 
renders any form of service possible. 



THE HOME GUARD 

FLORA G. ORR 

University of Wisconsin, Class of 1916 

" I don 't Hke to leave home, " said Sergeant Sugar doubtfully. "After 
all, they depend pretty much on me over here in the United States." 

"Don't be a Slacker," admonished Lieutenant Lard. 

"No time to argue, boys, forward march!" came the sharp command 
from General Wheat. "Off to France — but halt — what's the matter, 
Sergeant Sugar?" 

"The children are so fond of me, General, I don't see how I can get 
away. " 

"Do you boys imagine for a minute that you are leaving the folks 
at home without any protection? How^ about it? Did you think that. 
Major Meat?" 



1917] THE HOME GUARD 567 

"I didn't exactly think that, sir," came the cautious reply. 

"Attention! Do you see that encampment to the right? " "Yes, sir! " 

"That encampment is only one of several hundred squadrons which 
we are leaving here. Enlisted in the Home Defense League is General 
Milk, known throughout the world, probably one of the ablest mihtary- 
food experts in the world, absolutely unsurpassed for efficiency. He is 
a man of somewhat your type, Major Meat. 

"Then there is Colonel Corn. Colonel Corn is a fellow who has been 
hiding his light under a bushel. Ha! Ha! Yes, everybody in the South 
has known him for years, I know, but why his fame didn 't spread up 
North I can 't understand. I can tell you I have absolutely no compunc- 
tions about leaving home when I know I'm leaving a fellow hke Corn 
to look after things. 

"Now, just a word to you, Sergeant Sugar. Ever heard of your su- 
perior officer, Major Molasses?" "Yes, sir, but — " 

"No ' but's', Sergeant. I want you to know that Major Molasses is a 
fellow who can fully as well look after the sweet teeth of American chil- 
dren as you can, Sergeant." "Yes, sir." 

"After all the Syrups and Honey — and Molasses represents ail of them 
— are just as sweet as sugar, Sergeant. " "Yes, sir. " 

"Very good. Perhaps you'd like to hear the names of some of the 
other officers. Major Meat, you may be interested to know that Captain 
Cheese and Lieutenant Fish are ready to carry on quite a bit of the work 
which you must necessarily leave when you go to France. 

"And then there's Sergeant Spud, who is going to be able to do a great 
deal this winter. He's what I call a good officer." "Yes, sir." 

"There's a young Corporal in the Home Defense who'll do a great 
deal of what you might do if you could stay, Lieutenant Lard." 

"Who is that, sir?" 

"Corporal Cooking Oil. He's one of the Vegetable Fat family. I 
understand that your family used to consider yourselves somewhat bet- 
ter than the Vegetable Fats, eh Lard? Well, war is a great leveller. I 
imagine the young fellow will be giving you a good run for your money 
before long. Well, boys, you see you're not quite so important after 
all. And it's on to France, is it?" "It is indeed, sir! " 

"To the front then! May fortune bless our voyage! Forward 
March!" 



568 THE JOURNAL OF HOAiE ECONOMICS [December 

CONSERVATION IN THE LUNCH ROOM 

In view of the wide spread interest in elimination of waste, and the 
necessity for some radical changes in food habits to meet the demands 
for conserving wheat, meats, fats, and sugar, the following report by 
Miss Maud Parsons, Director of the lunch room of the Household Science 
Department of the University of Illinois, is of interest: 

We serve the noon meal to an average of 290 people, students and faculty, 
cafeteria style. The average check is 24 cents. 
The prices are: 

Meat, fish, and oyster dishes, 10-15 cents Bread, 1 cent 

Vegetables, 5 cents Butter, 2 cents 

Desserts, 5 and 7 cents Oleo, 1 cent 

Salads, 5 and 10 cents Nut Butterine, 1 cent 

It is interesting to note that the meatless day, Wednesday, has led to no 
diminution of attendance. In fact various people have remarked that the 
menus for that day were especially attractive. Fish has been served regularly 
on Tuesdays and Fridays. Oysters, chicken, or eggs have been served on other 
days, or with meat. 

As regards the wheatless meal, the patrons have seemed to enjoy most a 
rye bread in which two parts of wheat flour has been replaced by rye, though 
corn bread, corn muflSns, and fried mush are used very often. 

Special care is taken to have all the food well cooked, and special care is given 
to the "substitutes." 

The results from the standpoint of waste have been most gratifying. The 
total from 290 plates, exclusive of milk bottle tops, baked potato skins, or 
baked apple skins, is about 1 gallon per meal, or 1 spoonful per person. 

It seems to us entirely possible to greatly reduce the amount of waste in 
hotels and restaurants if care and cooperation can be secured. 



If all the world looks drear perhaps the meaning 
Is that your windows need a little cleaning. 

— The Youth's Companion. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE TIME NECESSARY TO DO THE WORK IN A SEVEN ROOM 
HOUSE FOR A FAMILY OF THREE 

MAP.Y ROWE 

Stevens Point Normal School, Wisconsin 

The house is in a middle west town with a population of 18,000. The 
town has several large factories, a paper mill, and two large foundries; 
so there is much smoke. There are two railroads. The house, however, 
is seven blocks from the nearest foundry. 

The street is paved with brick and is washed and swept clean every 
week. It is a busy street since it is the most direct road to the country 
and is near the business district. The neighborhood is one where near- 
ly everyone owns his house and is proud of his well kept lawn. The 
spaces between houses are generous. 

The house is well built. It is not, however, very conveniently arranged 
in rooms since the way from kitchen to front door is through dining room, 
living room, and hall, and the pantry and cup-boards are in the wrong 
places. There are a large living room, dining room, bedroom, bath- 
room, kitchen, hall, and laundry on the first floor, and two large bedrooms 
on the second floor. 

The floors were all in 6 inch pine but they have been covered with 
maple on the first floor, while they are painted on the second. The 
windows are double sash, single pane, and equal to one-sixth the floor 
space. The wood work throughout the house is painted. The walls 
of kitchen, bath, and one bed room are painted; the others are paper 
covered. 

The house is heated by a furnace using the hot air system, is equipped 
with gas stove, electric light, and city water, and has sewer connection. 
A cistern with pressure tank in basement and a coil in the furnace sup- 
ply hot and cold soft water to the kitchen and bathroom in winter; in 
summer the water is heated with gas. 

569 



570 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



There are not many labor saving devices in the laundry — or^iy a wash- 
ing machine which the man of the house runs. An electric iron is used 
in the ironing. 

A fireless cooker which uses hot soap stones is a time saver in the kitch- 
en, and a small bread mixer is considered a necessity. All the baking is 
done in the house since they do not like baker's bread and other bakery 
products. 

The furnishings of the house are such as may be easily cleaned, with 
very little upholstered furm'ture, and rugs covering the floors. 

Through experience the mother learned many ways of saving time 
in the work. Dishes were wiped with paper (especially when greasy), 
sorted, and piled, then washed in hot suds, rinsed in boiling hot water, 
and drained. Very little wiping was necessary. Whenever possible the 
fireless cooker was used, especially for the sake of saving time in the 
watching necessary when the gas stove was used. It was even used to 
keep the bread sponge warm. The bread mixei* was set in the open 
fireless cooker in which was one of the soapstones, heated just enough to 
keep the chamber about the right temperature. The top of the mixer 
was covered with a clean cloth and blanket and there it was left till the 
bread was light and there was no worry about drafts or over heating. 

Time for housework 



II. 



Work done twice a year 

Maple floors redressed 

Woodwork and papered walls cleaned. . 

Kitchen walls washed or painted 

Bathroom walls washed or painted 

Cleaning mattress and bedding 

Cleaning furniture 

Cleaning basement 

Work done once a year 

Painting by man of house 

Painting by decorator 

Spring cleaning and packing of woolen 
and fur 



4 
3 
3 
2 
3 
3 
_3 
21 

3 

4 

_4 
11 



HOURS PER Y£AR 



42 



11 



1917J 



TIME FOR WORK IN A SEVEN ROOM HOUSE 



571 



III. Work done once per month 

Rugs taken to yard and beaten and re- 
laid 

Windows cleaned on lower floor 

Windows cleaned on upper floor 



IV. Work done once a week 

Floors and furniture dusted. 

Rugs , 

Kitchen cleaned 

Bathroom 

Bedroom changing beds, etc. 



Laundry 

Sorting clothes , 

Running machine 

Boiling, rinsing, hanging. 

Cleaning laundry 

Ironing 



V. Work done each day 
Cleaning, etc. 

Bed making, 3 beds 

Floor, dusting furniture. 

Kitchen 

Bathroom 



Cooking 
Breakfast (cereal cooked in fireless) . 

Dinner 

Supper 



Baking 

Bread, twice a week, average daily 

Cake, cookies, desserts, etc. average 
daily 



Dishes 

Supper and breakfast together. . 
Dinner, including baking dishes . 



Tending furnace (| year) daily average . . 
Pumping pressure tank 



Total for year. 



HOURS PER VEAB 



15 



15 

30 
40 
30 
30 
25 



15 

30 
20 



15 
30 

15 

To 

20 
15 
30 

5 

25 
35 



30 
40 
10 

10 

_5 
15 



186 



264 



426 



760 



365 



426 



91 



2646 



This is equal to an average of seven hours per day for the year. 



572 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The family consists of three adults. The man of the house is a retired 
farmer and uses his surplus energy in supplying motive power for the 
washing machine, pressure tank, and furnace, besides acting as scrub 
woman in cleaning windows, rugs, floors, and paint. He uses the method 
learned through years of successful farming in doing the work in this 
home. For example, he keeps account of the time necessary for work 
and much of the data used in this article comes from his time book. In 
spite of his seventy-six years he can do the work much more quickly 
than any charwoman we have ever tried. This is especially notice- 
able in cleaning windows and rugs. 

The time given for the laundry work is as near an average as we could 
get, since in summer when more starched clothes were worn the ironing 
took longer than in the winter. The washing occupied the same amount 
of time, because the time and care needed for the woolen clothes worn 
in winter balanced the extra time used for the summer dresses. Un- 
derwear, bath towels, and such things are not ircned either summer or 
winter. 

For a month in August a four year old granddaughter and her mother 
were added to the family. During this time the washing took about half 
an hour longer and the ironing an hour longer. This item would have been 
larger if the child had not worn dark colored rompers in her play in the 
morning and thus saved the multiplication of white petticoats and 
dresses. 

For the rest of the work there was about half an hour for extra cooking 
and dishes and a few minutes for the extra bedroom. 

A dozen years ago when the family took the house there was no fur- 
nace, gas, or electricity. The street was unpaved. There was a tub 
in the bathroom but no other fixtures. There was city water, and a 
small cistern which had a way of running over into the basement when 
full and of being empty except when there were frequent rains. The 
house drain emptied into a cesspool. The floors in the kitchen and din- 
ing room were maple, but the others were unfinished pine badly stained, 
and showing such cracks that they had to be covered. Paint was tried 
but after a few years maple floors replaced the pine. 

The many automobiles passing stirred up such clouds of dust from 
the street that it was impossible to keep the house free from it. The 
kerosene lamps took about half an hour to clean each day. Since there 
was a base burner in the living room and a coal range in the kitchen much 
time was required for the carrying of coal in and ashes out, and for clean- 
ing up the dust and Ktter made. This meant perhaps an hour a day. 



1917] NEW NOTE IN MAGAZINES ON HOUSE -FURNISHING 573 

Now a new and larger cistern with a pressure tank connected with 
the hot water tank provides hot soft water as well as cold in the bathroom 
and kitchen. This saves the time it used to take to keep the reservoir 
on the range full of soft water, and does away with the bother of 
pumping. 

The house mother says that formerly it took one and one-half to two 
hours longer each day to do the work than now and it was not done so 
well. 



THE NEW NOTE IN THE MAGAZINES AND BOOKS ON HOUSE 

FURNISHING 

LEONA HOPE 

University of Illinois 

Much has been dehghtfuUy written about house furnishing, but it has 
dealt principally with the homes of the rich. We of moderate means 
have gazed with admiration, and possibly some envy, on pictures of this 
wealthy man's splendid Jacobean dining-room, on that one's stately Ital- 
ian Renaissance library, and on another's exquisite Louis XV drawing- 
room. But, while the pictures and descriptions have pleased and enter- 
tained us, we have been left with a feeling of helplessness as far as aid in 
the furnishing of our own modest little home was concerned. Imitation 
is out of question. We can never hope to achieve the pictured beauty 
of these splendid shows of priceless furniture, tapestries, and rugs with 
our plain oak table, Morris chair, and drugget. Moreover, if imitation 
were possible, we should not care to avail ourselves of the opportunity. 
Imitation lacks the vital personality which makes one's home a part of 
one's self. Therefore, many of us have sighed and reconciled ourselves 
to things as they are, feeling that our humble surroundings were entirely 
unworthy the consideration of artist and interior decorator. 

However, a change is taking place. Especially within the last year or 
two books and magazines on the subject of house-furnishing have ceased 
to be mere descriptions of Mr. So-and-So's palatial hall with its Floren- 
tine table and chairs and bit of French tapestry. Instead, the attention 
has been called to the beautiful balance with which the table, the chairs, 



574 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

and the tapestry have been arranged. If there are any of us wrio do not 
know what balance is, we can go to the dictionary or to some book on 
design. At last we have something tangible. I find that my simple 
hall furniture can be arranged with just as perfect balance as the most 
rare and costly. I am pleased to discover that a large part of the beauty 
of the room is in the arrangement; that a furnished room is not merely 
a collection of furniture ; that the house is a design, a design governed by 
the same principles as those which have made a painting by Raphael or 
a building like the Parthenon a joy for all time. Ignorance of the prin- 
ciples of design and of their application to house furnishing has been the 
cause of this helplessness among women who have been obliged to be 
their own interior decorators. And these women are the vast majority. 
I congratulate the woman who with fifty dollars can furnish her living- 
room with beautiful Colonial mahogany found in barns and in attics, 
here, there, and everywhere. We, the great majority, have not time to 
scour the country for "finds." And, if we had time, the craze for old 
furniture has left the country so completely scoured that our quest would 
probably be in vain. Of vastly greater importance to us is the recent 
article in one of our magazines which tells how to buy furniture; that 
good constructive design — fitness to purpose, excellent workmanship, 
fine proportion, good material — is the essential feature; that the purpose 
of decoration is to enhance, strengthen, or emphasize the construction, 
and that beyond this point decoration ceases to be desirable. 

I'his new note in the articles and books on house furnishing will effect 
great changes in thousands of homes where imitation and the word of 
the salesman are at present the deciding factors. It gives us the funda- 
mental principles which enable us to be the doctor rather than the apothe- 
cary. When I place my rugs parallel with the lines of the room I wish 
to do so because I thus consciously establish harmony, not because I have 
been told to do so — which I do not consider a reason at all. A wider 
dissemination of the knowledge of these fundamental principles of de- 
sign to house-furnishing is the need of the small home. And a trend 
in this direction, it seems to me, is the most salient feature of the recent 
books and magazines which deal with this subject. 

As to color, just at present many of us are Hving in "brown ambigui- 
ties. " We are timid about using black and white, magenta, and peacock 
blue, which our color-loving friends are advising. We are more com- 
fortable with a bromide than a horror. With black and wliite, magenta, 
and peacock blue most ravishingly beautiful results may be obtained, 



1917] A MESSAGE FROM HENRY VAN DYKE 575 

no doubt; but they are achieved only by the person with trained taste 
and accurate eye. I know that in color rules are of no use except, to 
quote Ruskin, "as preventatives of gross mistakes." Yet I do hope 
that something a little more definite and fundamental in the appHcation 
of color to our homes will be given us soon. House and Garden for Oc- 
tober has given us "Thirty-six Facts About Color." To quote poor 
little Oliver, "More please." 

A FEW BOOKS AND MAGAZINES SUGGESTING "tHE REASON WHY" 

Interior Decoration, Its Principles and Practices, Frank Alvah Parsons. 
House Furnishing and Decoration, A. McClure and H. D. Eberlein. 
The Decoration and Furnishing of Apartments, B. Russell Herts. 
Planning and Furnishing the Home, Mary J. Quinn. 
Interior Decoration, Amy L. Rolfe. 
Costume Design and Home Planning, Estelle Piel Izor. 
Good Taste in Home Furnishing, Maude Anne Sell and Henry Black- 
man Sell. 

Inexpensive Furnishings in Good Taste, Ekin WaUick. 

The New Interior, Hazel Adler. 

Inside the House of Good Taste, Richardson Wright. 

The House Beautiful. House and Garden. The New Country Life. 



A MESSAGE FROM HENRY V.\N DYKE 

A RED CROSS CHRISTAIAS TO THOSE WHO FEEL POOR 

I write as a brother. We are a large family. 

This world war made in Germany against which we are fighting has sent 
our incomes down and our expenses up. 

The pinch hurts, but it is not going to kiU us. 

We stiU have enough and something to spare. 

Though we feel poor, don't let us be impoverished by selfish fear. 

Let us save in food, in service, in clothes, in luxuries, but not in money. 

Let us use it by giving it to save the wounded, the suffering, our friends, 
our country. 

Let us keep Christmas this year by keeping up the Red Cross. 

Then it will be not a poor Christmas, but a rich Christmas in our hearts. 

— The Red Cross Bulletin. 



576 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

CHRISTMAS IN WARTIME 

A wartime Christmas — what does it mean to us and our home? 
For three years we have been stirred by the needs of the world, by 
those who are perforce doing without the comforts, the necessities, the 
essentials of life. Every penny we have spent for ourselves has been 
questioned, we have wondered whether we had any right to give to our 
family or our friends or those not in dire need, whether we had any 
right to be happy. 

Today it is harder than ever before to say "Merry Christmas," 
for the war has come home to us and we know even more vividly its 
terrible meaning. Yet the true spirit of Christmas is still here and 
must be fostered — the spirit of service and cheer, of thoughtfulness and 
consideration, of giving without asking return, even the spirit of joy. 

Children should not be denied their Christmas gifts or the privilege 
of giving to others whom they love, but a gift of equal value should 
be sent abroad for each one given at home. Nor should grownups 
or children forget the home poor or their accustomed charities. 

A worthwhile Christmas gift is one that helps someone else to give 
also. There are many who would gladly knit or do other work if they 
could afford the material. By giving this we double our gift. 

When it comes to the Christmas celebration let us be sure that while 
we have the happiest time possible for the children we do it in such 
a way that it means no sacrifice for any one else. Let us take care in 
planning the dinner that we use only what is not needed abroad. Go 
without the pastry that takes the fat for which people are starving, 
choose fruits and nuts, and use those that involve the least amount of 
transportation. Have in place of the usual candies only those made 
with molasses or syrups, or sweetmeats from dates, raisins, figs, and nuts, 
dipped in chocolate if you choose, or use pop corn made into balls with 
a little boiled molasses or maple syrup. Use chestnuts or something 
beside white bread for stuffing the turkey or chicken or use a goose with 
its apple or onion dressing. With France calling for wheat we can hardly 
use it for Christmas when we know that we have already sent all our 
surplus, and that we must save the rest she needs. 

Have plenty, but think back to your past dinners and see if you have 
not had too much. Break traditions if necessary, for the sake of others. 

Above all let the children share in your planning. Any sacrifice they 
make should be their own, not forced upon them from above. 

We ask for everyone Joy, Happiness, Peace. Let us claim them for 
our own households. 



EDITORIAL 

The Journal's Christmas List. The Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics extends Christmas Greetings to its readers. It hopes that this 
December number, with its record of work done during the year, may 
be acceptable to you as in one sense a Christmas gift from the con- 
tributors who have given freely their time and experience that this 
information might be available for you. And the Journal is so bold as 
to ask from you a Christmas gift for itself. Here is its Christmas hst. 

WANTED: 
Some two page articles — bright, interesting, worth while. 
Some four page articles — so well written that everyone wishes 

they were longer. 
Many news items — short, telling just what every one wants to 

know. 
Subscribers — 10,000 of them. 

Not for selfish reasons does the Journal want all these gifts but that 
it may be of greater service to more people. 

The War Emergency Food Survey. The United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture is conducting a War Emergency Food Survey that 
should result in bringing together a mass of material, far more than has 
ever been collected, to show what people really do eat. We have been 
accustomed to speak of the "food habits" of a nation, but so far many 
of our judgments have been based on mere surmise. The data gathered 
in this survey in regard to food consumption and waste in families and 
in larger groups known as institutional households will change the 
more or less rough estimates, hitherto made, into conclusions based on 
concrete facts. All sections of the United States, rural and urban, all 
type of famihes, and all ranges of income are to be included. 

Special blanks have been prepared on which may be recorded the 
food consumed and the refuse and waste for one week. 

In order to have the whole country participate in this survey, the 
Heads of College Departments of Home Economics have been asked 
to help by placing these survey blanks. It is hoped to enhst the aid 

577 



578 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

also of the Extension Workers throughout the country and oi Social 
Workers. Cooperation has been most freely pledged and an encour- 
aging interest in the study expressed. 

The number of studies received before the middle of November was 
204 and the number promised 2091. 

Anyone who will assist in carrying on the survey by placing either the 
family or group survey blanks may procure these blanks by writing to 
the Ofl&ce of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture. 

Home Canned Food and Botulism. The following statement pre- 
pared by the bacteriologists of the Bureau of Chemistry and the States^ 
Relations Service of the Department of Agriculture emphasizes over again 
the need of exactness in following directions, as well as the precautions 
that should be taken to insure the use of only food that is in good condi- 
tion. When this care is taken, there should be no need for fear. 

There is no danger that the type of food poisoning known as "Botulism" 
will result from eating fruits or vegetables which have been canned by any 
of the methods recommended by the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture, provided such directions have been followed carefully. Of course, ex- 
treme care should be taken to ascertain before eating canned goods of any 
kind whether they are in good condition, and if they have spoiled they should 
not be consumed. 

In case of any doubt as to whether the contents of a particular can have 
spoiled, the safest plan is to throw it away, although all danger of Botulism 
may be avoided by boiling the contents of the can for a few minutes, since 
the Bacillus bottdinus and the toxin or poison which it produces are killed by 
such treatment. No canned food of any kind which shows any signs of 
spoilage should ever be eaten. In the cold pack method of canning given out 
by the Department of Agriculture, only fresh vegetables are recommended 
for caiming, and sterilization is accomplished by the following processes: 
cleansing, blanching, cold dipping, packing in clean, hot jars, adding boiling 
water, sealing immediately, and then sterilizing the sealed jars at a minimum 
temperature of 212° F. for one to four hours, according to the character of the 
material. Since the spores of B. bottdinus are killed by heating for one hour 
at 175° F. (according to Jordan's ''Bacteriology" and other recognized text- 
books) there is no reason to believe that the bottdinus organism will survive 
such treatment. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

Any book or periodical mentioned in this department may b« obtained through the 
Journal of Home EcoNOincs if the Journal price is listed. 



The Charily Visitor: a Handbook for Begin- 
ners. By Amelia Sears. Chicago 
School of Civics and Philanthropy, new 
and rev. ed., 1917, pp. 69. Paper, $.50. 
By mail of the Journal $.54. 

"The Charity Visitor," as Miss Sears 
states in the preface, "is based on the verbal 
and written instructions relarive to the 
technique of investigations which for years 
have been current in the offices of the United 
Charities of Chicago and which are elabo- 
rated and assembled here, at the friendly 
suggestion of the directors of the Chicago 
School of Ci\-ics and Philanthropy, pri- 
marily for the use of students." It is 
doubtful if a home economist should do 
much investigation when working independ- 
ently of a social organization and without 
access to definite information from some 
outside source concerning the situation in a 
family, but there is no doubt that a home 
economist should be famihar with the nature 
of information available from any well- 
organized social agency, with the purpose 
and reason for investigation as interpreted 
by the case-worker, and with the form of 
office record keeping which has proved 
most satisfactory through many years' use. 
This information is clearly and interest- 
ingly presented in "The Charity Visitor," 
and the entire book should prove valuable 
to the home economist interested in dove- 
tailing her efforts mth those of other so- 
cial workers, and also in profiting by their 
experience. 

Practical, helpful material on the family 
budget is so limited in amount that home 
economics teachers as well as social workers 
should welcome the suggestions and data 
contained in the chapter Estimating the 
Family Budget, prepared by Miss Florence 



Nesbitt, Field Supervisor of the Aid to 
Mothers Department in the Juvenile 
Court of Cook County, Illinois. This is a 
summary of conclusions based on her long 
experience in not only estimating family 
budgets but also supervising them and test- 
ing their accuracy and value in actual use. 
Miss Nesbitt's e.^erience is a unique one, 
and although her discussion in this instance 
is very closely connected with charitable 
relief gixing, much of what she says is 
equally valid with reference to the budget 
of the self-supporting family. 

One of her important points is that the 
figures in a family budget should be definite 
and concrete and always interpreted accord- 
ing to their buying power in the particular 
locality. 

In the presentation of her schedule Miss 
Nesbitt therefore gives a brief descriptive 
summary of what would be considered by 
almost everyone as the minimum normal 
standard of living with respect to food, 
housing, clothing, household supplies, and 
the other customary budget divisions, with 
specific figures of costs for each of these 
divisions, and detailed estimates of the 
items. 

Miss Nesbitt objects to the use of the 
unit system in estimating food costs, espe- 
cially for young children. "While this cost 
of $2.10 per man per week can be used as a 
measuring unit for the members of the 
family who can be given the same kind of 
food eaten by the man, it cannot be so used 
in calculating the cost of food for small 
children. The infant may require only 
1200 calories, or one-third the amount of 
food of the working man. But it cannot be 
fed at one-third the cost, without endanger- 
ing its health, development, and probably 
its life." Her budget estimates for the 

579 



580 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



children in the family are reckoned with full 
consideration of each child as a child and 
with the particular needs of his age and 
period of development. This method seems 
especially necessary in estimating minimum 
budgets, and makes the figures especially 
valuable. 

With the higher food costs there is in- 
creasing interest in inexpensive but ade- 
quate menu planning, and Miss Nesbitt's 
food instructions for charity visitors will 
prove suggestive and helpful as well as her 
budget instructions. 

"The Charity Visitor," contains much of 
value and interest to the home economics 
worker, and makes one wish there were more 
books available which discuss method and 
technique from the standpoint of helping 
the individual family as well as from the 
standpoint of class room instruction. 

Emma A. Winslow. 

Training the Children. By James L. 
Hughes. New York: A. S. Barnes 
Company, 1917, pp. 148. $.60. By 
mail of the Journal, $.66. 

Dr. Hughes, who has been for forty 
years chief inspector (the Canadian equiva- 
lent of superintendent) of schools in Toronto 
has high claim on the attention of educators; 
the excellence of the Toronto schools is said 
to be largely due to his mse guiding hand. 

The experience of forty years covers 
many changes in educational theory, and it 
is evident that the author of this little book 
has had an open mind and is conversant with 
the later as well as the earlier views. This 
is shown in even the chapter headings. 

Dr. Hughes believes in tlie new training 
based on the self activity of the child, and in 
giving due heed to his right to development 
along positive rather than negative lines; 
the book is largely occupied with a contrast 
of the new with the old method of training. 

To the American parent and educator the 
argument seems at times, as in the frequent 
allusion to "chUd quelling," strangely out 
of date, an attack on views already dead 
and buried. For a generation the i\merican 



child has been httle, some thin", too little, 
controlled or " thwarted" in its development. 
It would seem that our Canadian neighbors 
are being urged to abandon a system so long 
unused in our country that its advantages, 
especially for the elders, are remembered 
with regret and its vices almost forgotten. 
"Have I not also some rights in the world?" 
asks the irate parent, a question which the 
educator always ignores. 

Dr. Hughes' contention that the boy 
from the farm does so well in life because 
his elders are too busy to bother with him 
is hardly convincing. Is not the real reason 
that he is being taught by inexorable nature? 
If the tool is left out, it rusts; if the cow is 
not milked, she goes dry. It is nature's 
training by rewards and punishments which 
in our blundering way we try to imitate in 
our educational systems. 

Does not the "let alone" policy fall 
sadly short of the mark? Do we not need 
to teach more and more wisely than ever, 
and not from cowardice or ignorance desert 
youth which so bitterly needs guidance? 

Dr. Hughes' book is full of the wisdom 
drawn from a long experience; still the actual 
child and his inevitable clash with grown up 
interests and plans in home and school, does 
not live in these pages. When wiU an edu- 
cator make such a contribution to our 
knowledge of childhood as did Mrs. Bacon 
in "The Madness of PhiHp?" Perhaps we 
ask too much. 

Mary Hinman Abel. 

1000 Things Mothers Should Know. By 
Mae Savell Croy. New York: G. P. 
Putnam's Sons, 1917, pp. 296. $1.50. 
By mail of the Journal, $1.60. 

This book carries out the suggestion of 
the title. It is made up of paragraphs 
dealing with clothing (particularly in rela- 
tion to children), the nursery, medical care, 
health rules, hygiene and sick room 
suggestions, food, amusements, and a few 
other topics. 

It does not undertake to give consecutive 
discussion of the topics. 



1917] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 581 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE - 

Foods 

Fraudulent "Egg Substitutes" and "Egg Savers." Charles H. La Wall, Amer. Food Jour. 
12 (1917), No. 6, pp. 300-302. 

Home Canning by the Cold Pack Method. Amer. Food Jour., 12, (1917), No. 6, pp. 
319-20, figs. 3. 

The Sardine Industry in Maine. H. M. Loomis, Amer. Food Jour., 12 (1917), No. 6, 
pp. 2>2>3-Z^. 

Uses of Mixed Flour in Bread Making. E. H. S. Bailey and W. S. Lang, Amer. Food 
Jour., 12 (1917), No. 6, pp. 302-3, figs. 2. 

Levulose the Preponderant Sugar of Apple Juices. John R. Eoff, Jr., Jour. Indus, and 
Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), No. 6, p. 587. 

Examination of Canned Salmon for Bacteria and Tin. L. D. Bushnell and C. A. A. Utt, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), No. 7, p. 678. 

Vinegar Investigation: A study of the changes that cider undergoes during fermenta- 
tion and prolonged storage and its subsequent conversion into vinegar in rotating genera- 
tors. B. G. Hartman and L. M. Tolman, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), No. 8, 
p. 759. 

Acid Content of Fruits. W. D. Bigelow and P. B. Dunbar, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 
9 (1917), No. 8, p. 762. 

Application of the Cryoscopic Method for Determining Added Water in Milk. J. T. 
Kuster, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), No. 9, p. 862, 

Determination of Fat in Certain Milk Products. C. K. Frances and D. G. Morgan, 
Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), No. 9, p. 860. 

Distribution of Nitrogen in Beer, J. S. Sharpe, Biochem. Jour., 11 (1917), No. 2, p. 101. 

Fatty Acids of Milk Fat. C. Crowther and A. Hynd, Biochem. Jour., 11, (1917), No. 
2, p. 139. 

Color Changes Produced by Two Groups of Bacteria Upon Caseinogen and Certain 
Amino Acids. E. C. V. Cornich and R. S. Williams, Biochem. Jour., 11 (1917), No. 2, p. 180. 

Effect of Food and Caffeine on Muscular Work. Hyde, Root, and Curl, Amer. Jour. 
Physiol., 43 (1917), No. 3, pp. 371-394. 

Coffee in the Alimentary Regime. Gomes (Ris.), Jour. Amer. Inst. Horn., 9 (1917), 
pp. 791-5. 

Iron-rich Diet: Practicable Ways of Increasing the Iron Content. Caroline L. Hunt, 
Jour. Amer. Inst. Horn. 9 (1917), pp. 911-915. See also Jour. Home Econ. 8 (1916), 
No. 11, pp. 584-587. 

Rations of Soldiers, il. Bornand, Mitt. Lebensm. Hyg., 7, 14-36; Chem. Zentr., 1916, 
I, 851. 

The Dietary Deficiencies of the White Bean, Phaseolus vulgaris. E. V. McCollum, N. 
Simmonds and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 29 (1917), pp. 521-536. 

The Utilization of Ammonium Chloride by Yeast. C. H. Hoffman, /oz<r. Indus, and Eng. 
Chem., 9 (1917), No. 2, pp. 148-151. 

Adsorption of Tin by Proteins and Its Relation to the Solution of Tin by Canned Foods. 
B. C. Goss, Jour. Indus, and Eng. Chem., 9 (1917), No. 2, pp. 144-148. 

Is Lysine the Limiting Amino Acid in the Proteins of Wheat, Maize or Oats? E. V. 
McCollum, N. Simmonds and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 28 (1917), pp. 483-499. 

The SterilizatioA of Unsound Meat. Wm. J. Howarth, Jour. State Med., 25 (1917), pp. 
161-168. 



582 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The Nutritive Value of the Soy Bean. Amy L. Daniels and Nell B. Nichols. Jour. Biol. 
Chem., 32 (1917), No. 1, pp. 91-102. 

NUTEITION 

Glucose Formation from Protein in Diabetes. N. W. Janney, Trans. College Physi- 
cians. Phila., (3) 38 (1916) pp. 168-94. 

Dextrose, Effect of Injection on Blood Composition and Urinary Secretion. David M. 
Davis, Amer. Jour. Physiol, 43 (1917), p. 514. 

Pellagra in Children. William A. Murphy, New York, Arch. Pediatrics, 34 (1917), pp. 
254^62. 

Interrelation Between Diet and Body Condition and the Energy Production During 
Mechanical Work in the Dog. R. J. Anderson and G. Lusk, Cornell Univ., Proc. Nat. Acad. 
Sci., 3 (1917), pp. 386-9. 

Influence of War Diet on Metabolism. Loewy and Zunz, Berl. klin. Wochschr., 53 (1916), 
pp. 825-9. 

Infants, Eye Disease, etc., from Deficiency in Fat in Food. Jour. Amer. Med. Assn. 68, 
(1917), p. 1516. 

Effect of Undernutrition on Muscular Force— Low Diets or Allen Method on Physical 
Vigor of Diabetics. WiUiams, Arch. Intern. Med., 20 (1917), pp. 398-408. 

Protem Needs— Creatinuria— Educational. Jour. Amer. Me.-. Assn. 69 (1917), p. 1008. 

Hunger and Appetite in Fever. Meyer and Carlson, Amer. Jour. Physiol. 44 (1917), pp. 
222-33. 

Production in Dogs of Pellagra. Chittenden and Underbill, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 44 
(1917), pp. 13-44. 

Botulism from Vegetables Canned by Cold Pack. S. F. Dickson, Jour. Amer. Med. Assn., 
1917, p. 966. 

A New Dried Potato Preparation for Low-Protein and Diabetic Diets. Hochhaus, 
Kuster and H. Wolff-Cohi, Berl. klin. Wochschr., 53 (1916), pp. 1017-21; Chem. Zentr., (1916), 
II, 748. 

Nutrition Investigations upon Cottonseed Meal, II. Anna E. Richardson and Helen S. 
Green, Jour. Biol. Chem., 30 (1917), No. 3, pp. 245-251. 

The Biological Efficiency of Potato Nitrogen. Mary S. Rose and Lenna F. Cooper, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 30 (1917), No. 3, pp. 201-204. 

The Supplementary Dietary Relationships between the Leaf and Seed as Contrasted with 
Combinations of Seed with Seed. E. V. McCollum, N. Simmond and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. ' 
Chem., 30 (1917), No. 1, pp. 13-32. 

The Influence of the Protein Intake on the Excretion of Creatine in Man. W. Denis, 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 30 (1917), No. 1, pp. 47-51. 

The R6le of Vitamines in the Diet. Thomas B. Osborne and Lafayette B. Mendel, Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 31 (1917), pp. 146-163. 

The " Vitamine" Hypothesis and Deficiency Diseases. A Study of Experimental Scurvy. 
E. V. McCoUum and W. Pitz, Jour. Biol. Chem., 31 (1917), pp. 229-253. 

Twenty-four Hour Metabolism of Two Normal Infants with Special Reference to the 
Total Energy Requirements of Infants. F. B. Talbot, Afner. Jour. Diseases of Children, 14 
(1917), No. 1, pp. 25-33. 

Creatinuria in Women. Mary S. Rose, Jour. Biol. Chem., 32 (1917), No. 1, pp. 1-3. 

A Biological Analysis of Pellagra-producing Diet. I. The Dietary Properties of Mix- 
tures of Maize Kernel and Beans. E. V. McCollum and N. Simmonds, Jour. Biol. Chem., 
32 (1917), No. 1, pp. 29-61. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Vocational Adviser. Miss Katherine 
F. Ball has been appointed Vocational Ad- 
viser for Women in the University of Minne- 
sota. The office was created in June, 1917 
and ]Miss Ball is the first person to receive 
the appointment. 

In creating the office the Board of Regents 
defined the scope of the work as follows: 

" 1 To make a study of vocations open 
to college women, the qualifications required, 
the opportunities, the remuneration, the con- 
ditions of work. 

2. To study the qualifications, interests, 
and preparation of women students upon en- 
tering and during their course in the Univer- 
sity. 

3. To confer personally with students 
about their plans and to advise them in their 
choice of studies in preparation for their vo- 
cations. 

4. In every way possible (by lectures, 
public conferences, and otherwise), to pro- 
mote among women students seriousness of 
purpose and an intelligent appreciation of 
their duties and responsibilities as Univer- 
sity graduates. " 

Miss Ball is a graduate of Wellesley Col- 
lege, and has done graduate work in the Uni- 
versity of California and at Teachers Col-' 
lege, Columbia University. In the latter in- 
stitution she received her master 's degree and 
professional diploma as Adviser to Women. 
She has taught in the High School in Plain- 
field, N. J., where in collaboration with Miss 
Miriam E. W^est she developed a special 
course in applied arithmetic for girls in the 
household arts. 

The Consumers' League wants everyone 
to know and share the relief and joy which 
Monday morning, October first brought to 
thousands of girls and women in the res- 
taurants of our first and second class cities. 

The new law, that the American Home 



Economics Association helped to support, 
puts an end to the unlimited work-day, seven 
days a week, and to dangerous night work. 
On October first, these workers faced their 
task with new zest and faith, assured of a 
nine hour day, a weekly day of rest, and no 
work after 10 p.m. Effort now must be 
directed toward the enforcement of the law, 
and also toward the development of public 
opinion strong enough to check the attempts 
to break down the safeguards of the labor 
law under plea of war emergency. 

Department of Superintendence, N. E. 
A. On account of crowded conditions in 
Atlanta, due to the establishment there of 
one of the National Army cantonments and 
other military camps, the place of meeting of 
the Department of Superintendence of the 
N. E. A. has been changed from that city to 
Atlantic City. The date of the meeting is 
February 25 to March 2, 1918. 

It has been suggested that, instead of the 
single session usually held by the American 
Home Economics Association in connection 
with this department, the deferred annual 
meeting of our Association be held at this 
time. This is under consideration by the 
Council. 

Further announcement will be made in the 
January issue. 

Massachusetts Institute of Technol- 
ogy. Miss Amy Walker, M.A., Smith Col- 
lege, has been appointed research assistant 
in the chemistry of foods, under the Ellen 
H. Richards Fund, for the year 1917-18. 
The work will be carried on under the di- 
rection of Professor A. G. Woodman, and 
it is proposed to study chemical changes, 
with special reference to the nitrogen com- 
pounds, which take place when fish decom- 
poses before and after heatmg at relatively 
high temperatures. 

583 



584 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

The American Association for the Ad- The Society of American Eacteriolo- 
vancement of Science holds its annual gists will meet in Washington, D. C, De- 
meeting in Pittsburgh, Pa., December 28, cember 27 to 29. 
1917 to January 2, 1918. 

HOME ECONOMICS LECTURE ON THE STANDARD OF LIVING IN JAPAN 

The International Committee on Home Economics of the American Home Economics 
Association is glad to announce that Professor K. Morimoto, Ph.D., of the Department of 
Political Economy in the Imperial University at Sapporo, Japan, will be available to give 
lectures on a few dates this fall and winter on the ' 'Standard of Living in Japan, with 
suggestions for reducing the High Cost of Living in America." The lecture is illustrated 
with colored slides. Professor Morimoto is taking his Doctor's degree from Johns Hopkins 
University, and durmg the two years— 1905-07, delivered several hundred lectures before 
American audiences. He has during the past two years been commissioned by the Japanese 
Government to study the standard of living in the United States, the results of which are 
shortly to be published in Japan. He is soon to publish in this country in the Johns Hop- 
kins University Studies, "The Standard of Living in Japan." 

Professor Morimoto is also gathering information regarding Home Economics Education 
in this country in connection with a plan for estabhshing a college of home economics in 
Japan, and this inquiry will take him to several of our leading roUeges of home economics. 
The International Committee bespeaks the cordial cooperation of American Institutions 
which Professor Morimoto may find it possible to visit. 

Professor Morimoto is giving some of his free time to these lectures, and is devoting the 
proceeds to the foundation of the Clark Memorial Church at the University of Sapporo, in 
memory of Doctor William S. Clark, formerly President of the Massachusetts Agricultural 
College, who went to Japan at the request of the Japanese Government in 1876, to estabUsh 
the Sapporo Agricultural College, now part of the Imperial University. 

The fee for the lecture is set at $15 to $25, as local conditions may make possible; because 
of his plan of visiting certain institutions on his transcontinental trip there need in many cases 
be no additional expense if it 'proves feasible to arrange the lecture; in other cases, some 
travelling expense may be involved. 

Correspondence regarding dates and fees should be had directly with Professor Morunoto, 
addressing him at 1313 North Patterson Park Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. 

(Signed) International Committee on Teaching of Home Economics. 
Benjamin R. Andrews, Chairman 

Teachers College, New York City 
Helen W. Atwater 
Mary Schenck Woolman 
Catharine J. Mackay 

President American Home Economics Association 



INDEX TO VOLUME IX 



Abel, Mary Hinm.\n. The high cost of 
living, 271 

The advance in food prices, 184 

Alois, Mary, ^\'hat about Katie?, 515 

American Association for advancement of 
Sciences,* 584 

American Association for the Study and 
Prevention of Infant Mortality,* 147 

American Association of Agricultural Col- 
leges and Experiment Stations,* 197; 
Annual convention,* 536 

American Chemical Society, 257 

American Home Economics Association 
Meetings: Annual, postponed, 339; At- 
lanta, 339; meeting place changed, 583; 
Kansas City, 50, 95, 141, 198; Port- 
land, Ore., 239, 287, 339, 439 

The American papaw and its food value, 505 

American Public Health Association, (meet- 
ings), 123, 480 

American Red Cross: 222, 414, 478, 559 

American Red Cross Conmiittee on Dieti- 
tian Service,* 535 

Andrews, B. R. Ellen H. Richards Day for 
1917, 454 

Announcements: American Association for 
Study and Prevention of Infant Mortali- 
ty, 480; American Home Economics As- 
sociation meetings (see American Homd 
Economics Association) ; ^\merican Pub- 
lic Health Association, 480; Conference 
of Supervisors of Home Economics, 340; 
EUen Richards research prize, 384; 
Graduate fellowship in household admin- 
istration, 288, 339; Household account 
books, 240; Institution Section meeting 
postponed, 238; National Conference 
Charities and Corrections, 239, 288 

Annual Conference of the State Agents in 
Home Demonstration Work in the 
South,* 148 



* Those starred are news notes. 



Annual Convention of the Religious Edu- 
cational Association,* 100 

Annual meeting of the National Society for 
Promotion of Industrial Education,* 100 

An appeal to women, 267 

Architecture : The development of the house, 
349 

AsHLOCK, J. L. The cost of women's 
clothes, 499 

B 

A baby week exhibit, 232 

Barley cookery, 333 

Barrows, Anna. Corn festivals, 460 

Beaubien, Nell. Soy bean cookery, 273 

Bennett, Arnold. The British home, 177 

Benson, O. H. The mother-daughter home 

canning club, 251 
Bevler, Isabel. The development of home 

economics, 1 ; An experiment in teaching 

food values, 415 
Bibliography of home economics, 45, 93, 145, 

193, 245, 293, 345, 389, 437, 485, 533, 

581 
Bjorklund, Irene. Manufactured silk, 

377 
Blunt, Katharine. Losses of iron in 

cooking vegetables, 213 
Book reviews: 

American Red Cross textbook on home 
dietetics, 483 

The baby — before and after arrival, 144 

The charity visitor, 579 

The children's food, 290 

Clothing and health, 91 

Clothing for women, 189 

Commercial publications, 191 

Constructive sewing, 144 

Control of hunger in health and dis- 
ease, 241 

A course in home planning and fur- 
nishing, 289 

A course in household arts, 143 



585 



586 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Book reviews — continued: 

Domestic architecture, 387 

Dressmaking, 529 

Dressmaking as a trade for women in 

Massachusetts, 528 
Emergency work for women, and other 

war papers, 290 
Feeding the family, 189 
Food and health, 242 
Food and the principles of dietetics, 433 
Food for the worker, 387 
Food study, 344 
From house to house, 143 
The healthful house, 482 
The home and the family, 289 
The home care of sick children, 343 
Home labor saving devices, 243 
Household manufactures in the United 

States, 1640-1860, 527 
How to cut food costs, 434 
How to live, 190 
Human physiology, 42 
A laboratory manual of foods and 

cookery, 91 
Letters to a young housekeeper, 290 
Low cost recipes, 43 
Milk and its hygienic relations, 41 
Minimum cost of living, 343 
The mothercraft manual, 529 
The new interior, 242 
Nutritional physiology, 42 . 
1000 things mothers should know, 580 
The prevention of disease, 483 
Ten lessons on food conservation, 531 
Thrift by household accounting, 43 
Training the children, 580 
Vocational mathematics for girls, 481 

BoRTHWiCK, Alberta. A contribution to 
the standardization of conditions in col- 
lege halls for women, 139 

Bowling Green Neighborhood Association,* 
439 

BoYLEN, Alta. Home management, 233 

Brand, Charles J. The high cost of liv- 
ing, 423 

Bread: See Cookery 

The British home, 177 

Brookins, Florence E. Helping a com- 
munity to conserve, 322 

Brown, Lucius P. Partial analysis of food 
^ waste problem, 503 



Budget: Amounts spent for food, ?34; Food 
and the, 75; The Perm famii> problem, 
58; Standard of living, 550 



Canning and preserving: 338; A chart for 
canning, 426; Helping a community to 
conserve, 322; Jelly making, 429; Mar- 
malade and jam, 375; A Massachusetts 
canning school, 27; The mother-daugh- 
ter home canning club, 251; Old methods 
and new conditions, 282 

Caramel, Preparation and use of, 167 

Calorie, Why the large, 354 

Calvin, Henrietta W. Extension work, 
565; Some administrative problems in 
home economics in the public schools, 
199 

Can this Association help to reduce the death 
rate among children, 489 

The care of younj, children, 275 

Central Association of Science and Mathe- 
matic Teachers,* 96 

A chart for canning, 426 

Children: Care of young children, 275; Child 
labor conference,* 348, Food require- 
ments of children, 324; Mobilizing the 
nation's children for Red Cross, 559; 
Question box, 40, 385; Reduce death 
rate, 489 

Christmas in war time, 576 

Clothing: Cost of women's clothes, 499; 
Mending, 182; Women and clothes, 127 
See also Textiles. 

Club programs: In home economics, 223; In 
war time, 471; A course in food eco- 
nomics for the housekeeper, 329 

College (methods and cost of living): 
Amount spent for food, 234; Col- 
lege residence halls, 101 ; Practice house, 
71, 151; Standardizing conditions in 
college halls, 139 

The college course in home economics, 301 

College residence halls, 101 

Collier, John. Home economics and the 
community center, 319 

Colorado Agricultural College,* 347 

Comment and Discussion : Teachers for po- 
sitions, 188; Teaching home economics 
abroad, 39 



1917] 



INDEX TO VOLUME IX 



587 



Community work: Club programs, 471; 
Community centers conference,* 348; 
Helping a community to conserve, 322; 
Home economics and the community 
center, 319 
See also Extension work 

Comparative cost and fuel value of foods, 519 

A comparison of commercially prepared and 
home prepared luncheons, 85 

A comparison of the digestibUity of starch in 
typical batter and dough mixtures, 109 

CoMSTOCK, Laura. A Massachusetts can- 
ning school, 27 

Conference of New England Normal school 
teachers of home economics,* 248 

Conference of supervisors of home econom- 
ics,* 536 

Connecticut Home Economics Association,* 
48 

Conservation: An appeal to women, 267; 
Conservation in the lunch room, 568; A 
course in food economics, 329; Christ- 
mas in war time, 576; Economy in 
leather, 336; Editorial, 237, 432, 525, 
526; Food and the budget, 75; Food 
situation, 522; Food waste, 220; Food 
waste problem, 503; The home guard, 
566; How and why we should save 
fats, 428; Government leaflets, 270; 
511; Helping a community to conserve, 
322; Losses of iron in cooking vege- 
tables, 213, 232; Quotations, 228, 256; 
What about Katie?, 515 
See also Canning; Emergency; Food Ad-, 
ministration; Substitution 

A conservation dinner, 513 

Conservation in the lunch room, 568 

The Consum Verein Shop, 521 

Consumers League,* 583; In New York 
State,* 100 

A contribution to the standardization of con- 
ditions in college halls for women, 139 

Cookery: Barley, 333; Com meal bread, 376, 
Com meal mush, 456; Corn meal recipes, 
477; Dasheen, 81; Losses of iron in 
cooking vegetables, 213, 232; Milk and 
skimmed milk, 277; Preparation of 
caramel, 167; Question box, 384, 386, 
526; Recent contributions to our knowl- 
edge of food preparation, 537 ; Soy bean, 



183, 273; Teaching cookery in public 
schools, 205 

Cooper, Lenna F. The new dietetic treat- 
ment of diabetes mellitus, 19 

Corn festivals, 460 

Corn meal bread, 376 

Corn meal mush, 456 

Corn meal recipes, 477 

A corn rhapsody, 464 

Correction, 64 

Correlation: Chemistry and home econom- 
ics, 109; Drawing and sewing, 61 

Cost of living: Advance in food prices, 184; 
Amounts spent for food, 234; The cost 
of women's clothes, 499; Distribution of 
food, 33; Food waste problem, 503; High 
cost of living, 271, 423; Some articles 
on standard of living, 550 
See also Conservation; Editorial, 236; 
Food 

The cost of women's clothes, 499 

A course in food economies for the house- 
keeper, 329 

Courses in sewing for elementary and high 
schools, and their correlation with 
drawing, 61 

D 

Daniels, Amy L. A comparison of the di- 
gestibility of starch in typical batter 
and dough mixtures, 109 

The dasheen, 81 

Demonstrating in and to the home, 469 

Department of Superintendence, N. E. A.,* 
583 

A desirable change in the test for silk and 
wool, 357 

The development of home economics, 1 

The development of home economics at the 
University of Washington, 314 

The development of the house, 349 

Diet: Eat wisely and well, 476; The new 
feeding in tj^hoid, 14; The new treat- 
ment of diabetes, 19 
See also Nutrition; Digestion 

Dietitians conference,* 488 

Digestion: Comparison of digestibility of 
starch in batter and dough, 109; Di- 
gestibility of sweet potatoes, 138; Di- 
gestibility of various foods, 257; Ques- 



588 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



tion Box, 40, 89, 341, 384, 385, 386; 
Recent advances in our knowledge of, 
65 

Distribution — what do you know about it? 
33 

Do your bit, 231 

DoDD, Alvin E. Training women to earn — 
a national movement, 441 

Domestic art: Part time education in house- 
hold arts, 51 
See also Clothing 

Drying: See Canning and Preserving 



Earhart, Anna M. A score card for home 
economics English, 497 

Eat wisely and well, 476 

Economy: See Conservation 

Economy in leather, 336 

Editorial: An agricultural bill that should 
help home economics, 286; The Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association and 
the national crisis, 141; The annual 
meeting postponed, 339; Baby week, 
186; Business as usual, 430; Business 
training for women, 88; Christmas 
list, 577; Conservation of effort, 237; 
The cost of living and the present 
crisis, 236; Food for France Fund, 479, 
526; The food situation, 185; A greet- 
ing, 38; A hidden lesson, 525; Home 
canned food and botulism, 578; Home 
economics conferences in Washington, 
383; Household waste and public waste, 
432; The housewife and the eight hour 
day, 87; A new committee of the Asso- 
ciation, 237; The new vocational bill, 
187; The Smith-Hughes biU, 38; The 
sugar shortage, 525; War emergency 
food survey, 577 

Education: Administrative problems in 
home economics in public schools, 199; 
A college course in home economics, 301 ; 
Development of home economics at 
University of Washington, 314; Home 
economics education and social hygiene, 
405; Luncheon as a project in elemen- 
tary and secondary education, 361; 
The need of standardization, 28; Part 
time education in household arts, 51; 



Scope of home economics and its sub- 
ject matter in universities and colleges, 
393; Training women to earn, 441. 
See also Study and Teaching. 

Ellen H. Richards: Club,* 300; Day for 
1917, 454; Graduate fellowship, 288, 
339; Memorial fellowship,* 487; Re- 
search prize, 384 

Emergency work: Chicago University stu- 
dents, 220; Do your bit, 231; Editorial, 
88, 141, 185, 236, 237, 383, 432, 525, 526; 
Emergency Committee American Home 
Economics Association, 268, 328; Food 
facts bureau, Boston, 451; Goucher 
College pledge, 326; Red Cross, 222, 
414, 478, 559; Some things to do and 
some not to do, 230; What the home 
economics teacher can do, 365 
See also Conservation; Food Admin- 
istration 

The Emergency Committee of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, 237, 
268, 328 

English, A score card for home economics, 
497 

Equipment: Equipping a diet kitchen, 162; 
Homemade fireless cooker, 137; School 
electric equipment, 108; Sweeping pow- 
der, 26 

Equipping a diet kitchen, 162 

Evans, Ernestine. Mobilizing the Na- 
tion's children for Red Cross, 559 

Evans, W. A. Score card for refrigerators, 
118 

An experiment in teaching food values, 415 

Extension work: 565; Demonstrating in and 
to the home, 469; Extension work in mill 
villages, 562; Financing the home dem- 
onstration work, 8; Food leaflets (U. S.), 
511; A Massachusetts canning school. 
27; The mother-daughter home canning 
club, 251 

See also Rural work; Community work; 
Social work. 

Extension work in mill villages, 562 

The family balanced ration, 421 



Fassig, Percival. Distribution — what do 
you know about it, 33 



1917] 



INDEX TO VOLUAIE DC 



589 



Fats, How and why we should save fats, 428 

Federal Board for Vocational Education,* 
487 

Federated Association of Applied Arts and 
Sciences, Southern Section,* 195 

Festivals, Corn, 460 

Financing the home demonstration work, 8 

Fireless cooker, 137 

Fish, Ada Z. The "Perm" family problem, 
58 

Fish: The housewife and the fish problem, 
369 

Food: Cost and fuel value of, 519; Editorial, 
185; Experiments to determine compo- 
sition and effect of various foods, 25^; 
Eat wisely and well, 476; Family bal- 
anced ration, 421; Food charts,* 300; 
Food labels, 36; Food situation, 522; 
Food supply, 34; Food supply and prices, 
367; Food values, 415; Recent contri- 
butions to our knowledge of food prep- 
aration, 537; Study of amounts spent 
for food materials, 234. 
See also Cookery; Diet; Nutrition 

Food Administration, The United States: 
Bulletin for librarians, 466; Messages 
from, 467, 522, and frontispiece Octo- 
ber; Pledge, 430; Work of, 419 

Food and the Budget, 75 

Food Conservation Division of the Food 
Administration and Advisory Com- 
mittee,* 391 

The Food Facts Bureau of Boston, 451 

Food labels, 36 

Food requirements of children, 324 

The food supply, 34 

Food waste, 220 

Foster, James H. The relation of home 
economics education to social hygiene, 
405 

Frayser, Mary E. Extension work in 
mill villages, 562 

French, Martha H. Courses in sewing 
for elementary and high schools and 
their correlation with drawing, 61 



General Federation of Women's Clubs,* 535 
GiLLETT, Lucy H. Food requirements of 
children, 324 



GoTT, Amy R. A housekeeping center, 359 
Goucher College preparedness pledge, 326, 
348 

H 

Harvey, Annette. A home with an in- 
come, 262 

Has the ice blanket any use, 84 

The hasty pudding, 466 

Helping a community to conserve, 322 

Heyle, Essie M. The school lunch as a 
project in teaching cookery in the ele- 
mentary schools, 205 

The high cost of living, 271, 423 

Holmes, A. D. The American papaw and 
its food value, 505 

Home: The British home, 177; Homemaking 
as a profession, 29; Modern home, 212 

Home Economics: The development of, 1; 
Funds, 136; Home Economics and the 
community center, 319; Home Eco- 
nomics and social hygiene, 405 
See also Education: Study and Teach- 
ing 

Home economics workers in Washington^ 
D. C.,* 391, 487, 536 

Homemade : Comparison of commercial and 
home luncheon, 86; Fireless cooker, 137 

Hope, Leona. The new note in the maga- 
zines and books on house furnishing, 
573 

Home economics and the community center, 
319 

Home Economics Department, Purdue Uni- 
versity,* 439 

Home economics lectures on standard of 
living in Japan,* 584 

The home economics practice house at Ore- 
gon Agricultural College, 71 

Home economics fellowship,* 299 

Home economics funds, 136 

Home Economics Section of Indiana State 
Teachers' Association,* 299 

Home economics teacher for China,* 149 

The home guard, 566 

The homemade fireless cooker, 137 

The homemakers' course at the Kansas. 
Agricultural College, 174 

Homemaking as a profession, 29 

Home management, 233 

A home with an income, 262 



590 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



House furnishing, The new note in maga- 
zines and books on, 573 

Household arts teachers of Chicago,* 297 

The housing problem, 492 

A housekeeping center, 359 

The housewife and the fish problem, 369 

How and why we should save fats, 428 

HuED, Jessie H. Old methods and new 
conditions, 282 

I 

Indiana Home Economics Association,* 47 
Industrial education: See Education 
Institution management: A course in, 496; 
Diet kitchen, 162; Linens for institu- 
tions, 447; Oflfice restaurant, 121; Prac- 
tice houses, 71, 151; Standardizing con- 
ditions in college halls, 139 
Institution Section of the American Home 

Economics Association,* 150 
An international lectureship,* 247 
Iowa Home Economics Associatiqn,* 47 



James, Edmund J. College residence halls, 

101 
Japan, lecture on standard of living in,* 584 
Jelly making, 429 
Jenkins, Elizabeth C. The eollege course 

in home economics, 301 
Jenny, Walter Proctor. Com meal mush, 

456 
The Johnny-cake, 465 
Johnson, Helen Louise. Club programs 

in home economics, 223; Club programs 

in war time, 471; Food and the budget, 

75; Women and clothes, 127 

K 

Kelton, Lucy S. The office restaurant and 

its opportunities, 121 
Kitchen: Diet kitchen, 16^ 



Langworthy, C. F. The American papaw 

and its food value, 505 
Leather, Economy in, 338, 468 
Lord, Isabel E. Marmalade and jam, 375; 

Practice houses for students in home 

economics, 151 



Losses of iron in cooking vegetables, 213, 232 

LouGHLiN, Rosemary. Recent investiga- 
tions in nutrition, 546 

Lunch: Comparison of commercial and 
home luncheon, 85; Conservation in the 
lunch room, 568; Luncheon as a project 
in education, 361 ; School lunch in teach- 
ing cookery, 205 

The luncheon as a project in elementary 
and secondary education, 361 

Lyford, Carrie. A summer course at 
Hampton, 496; The tin can, 373 

M 

MacKinnon, Jean G. A desirable change 
in the test for silk and wool, 357 

Manufactured silk, 377 

Marmalade and jam, 375 

Maryland Federation of Women's Clubs,* 
298 

Maryland Home Economics Association,* 
299 

A Massachusetts canning school, 27 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology,* 583 

Medium priced linens for institution and 
home, 447 

Meeting of home economics teachers in Land 
Grant Colleges,* 197 

Meeting of home economics workers of 
western states,* 391 

Mending, 182 

A message from Henry Van Dyke, 575 

Milam, Ava B. The home economics prac- 
tice house at Oregon Agricultural Col- 
lege, 71 

Milk and skimmed milk, 277 

Mobilizing the Nation's children for Red 
Cross, 559 

The modern home, 212 

Monsch, Helen. A suggestion in regard to 
the preparation and use of caramel, 167 

The mother-daughter home canning club, 251 

Murtland, Cleo. Part time education in 
household arts, 51 

N 

National Child Labor Committee,* 196 
National Conference of Charities and Cor- 
rections, 411. 
See also Announcements 



1917J 



INDEX TO VOLUME IX 



591 



National Housing Association,* 147 

National Special .\id Society,* 49 

The need of standardization, 28 

The new dietetic treatment of diabetes mel- 
litus, 19 

New England Home Economics Associa- 
tion,* 48 

The new feeding in the treatment of ty- 
phoid fever, 14 

The new note in magazines and books on 
house furnishing, 573 

New tables of weights and measures, 364 

News (Brief notes): 49, 150, 198, 250, 300, 
348, 392, 440, 487, 536, 583. (Other 
news items are starred throughout the 
index) 

Normal school courses, 218 

North Carolina rural work,* 535 

Northwest Texas Home Economics Con- 
vention,* 248 

Nutrition: Recent investigations in nutri- 
tion, 546; Relative nutritive value of 
oleomargarine and butter, 229 
See also Diet 

O 

O'Brien, Ruth. The value of textile chem- 
istry to the home economics student, 171 

The office restaurant and its opportunities, 
121 

Ohio Home Economics Association,* 47 

Old methods and new conditions, 282 

Oleomargarine, 229 

Oregon Branch, Western Home Economics 
Association,* 439 

Orr, Flora G. The home guard, 566 

OsBORN, Frederick A. Why the large 
calorie?, 354 

Otis, Florence A. Losses of iron in cook- 
ing vegetables, 213 

Outline of the content of special methods 
courses for students preparing to teach 
home economics, 210 



Papaw, American, and its food value, 505 
Part time education in household arts, 51 
Partial analj'sis of food waste problem, 503 
Perry, Lorinda. Some recent magazine 

articles on the standard of living, 550 
The "Penn" famify problem, 59 



Philadelphia Home Economics Association* 
250 

Plaisance, G. p. a suggestion in regard to 
the preparation and use of caramel, 167 

The pledge of the General Federation of 
Women's Clubs, 383 

Potatoes, 429 

Practice houses: In several colleges, 151; 
Oregon Agricultural College, 71 

Practice houses for students in home eco- 
nomics, 151 

Preserving: See Canning 



The Queston Box : Alum baking powders, 89; 
Burning of sugar in the body, 341; Di- 
gestibility of crisp bacon, 386; Digestion 
of milk in adults and children, 385; Ef- 
fect of salt in cooking vegetables, 384; 
Effect of cream in coffee, 386; Lactose 
in infant feeding, 385; Skim-milk, 40; 
Soda in cooking, 526; Tea room man- 
agement, 341; Unfertilized eggs, 384; 
Vitamines, 90 

Quotations, 228, 256, 549, 568 
R 

Raitt, Effle I. The development of home 
economics at the University of Wash- 
ington, 314 

Ration, The family balanced, 421 

Ravenhill, Alice. The scope of home 
economics and its subject matter in uni- 
versities and colleges, 393 

Recent advances in our knowledge of diges- 
tion and absorption, 65 

Recent contributions to our knowledge of 
food preparation, 537 

Recent investigations in nutrition, at the 
Univ. of Wis., 546 

Red Cross: See American Red Cross 

Refrigeration: Ice blanket, 84; Score card 
for refrigerators, 118 

The relation of home economics education 
t^ social hygiene, 405 

The relative nutritive value of oleomarga- 
rine and butter, 229 

Report of the committee on correlation of 
chemistry and home economics in high 
schools (Central Association of Science 
and Mathematics Teachers), 114 



?92 



THE JOURX.IL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Restaurant, The ofiBce, and its opportunities, 

121 
Richards. Sec E. H. Richards 
Richards Day Celebration:* Boston, 48; 

Cheney, Washington, 149; Cincinnati, 

196; Coats, Kansas, 149; Stillwater, 

Oklahoma, 149; Tempe, -\rizona, 149; 

University- of South Dakota, 150 

See also Ellen H. Richards 
Richmond School of Social Economy,* 535 
RowE, M\JtY. The time necessar>- to do 

the work in a seven room house for a 

family of three, 569 
Rural work: See Extension Work 



Sanitarv- Commission to Russia,* 391 

School: See Study and Teaching 

A school electric equipment, 108 

School lunch: See lunch 

The school lunch as a project in teaching 
cookerv* in the elementar>' schools, 205 

The scoi>e of home economics and its subject 
matter in vmiversities and colleges, 393 

A score card for home economics English, 
497 

Score card for refrigerators, 118 

The Second Pan .-Vmerican Congress on 
Child Welfare,* 536 

Sewing: Courses in, 61; Mending, 182 
See also Clothing and Domestic .\rt 

Smith, Rtth McXary. Equipping a diet 
kitchen, 162 

Smith-Hughes vocational education bill,* 100 
See also Editorial, 38, 187 

Snow, Jen>"y H. The luncheon as a proj- 
ect in elementary- and secondare- edu- 
cation, 361 

Social hygiene, Relation of home econom- 
ics and, 405 

Social work: A housekeeping center, 359; 
The housing problem, 492; The office 
restaurant and its opportunities, 121 
See also Extension work; Community 
work 

Sodet>- of American Bacteriologists,* 584 

Some administrative problems in home eco- 
nomics in the pubUc schools, 199 

Some helpful bulletins, 232 

Some needs of the .American Red Cross, 414 



Some practical suggestions from the Ameri- 
can Chemical Society*, 257 
Some recent magazine articles on the stand- 
ard of li\-ing, 550 
Some things to do and some not to do, 230 
South East Texas Industrial Arts Club,* 

347 
Southern Home Economics Conference,* 295 
The soy bean, 183; cookery, 273 
Standard of li^■ing, articles on, 550 
Standardization: Clothes, 127; Editorial, 87; 
The need of, 28; Some recent magazine 
articles on the standard of li^-ing, 550; 
Standardizing conditions in college halls, 
139 
Stanley, Louise. Outline of the content of 
special methods courses for students 
preparing to teach home economics, 
210; Recent advances in our knowledge 
of digestion and absorption, 65; Re- 
cent contributions to our knowledge 
of food preparadon, 537; Some prac- 
tical suggestions from the .American 
Chemical Society, 257 
Starch, Digestibility- of, 109 
State leaders of home demonstration agents,* 

536 
State public emplo>-ment office,* 347 
A state wide canning campaign,* 347 
Ste\'EN"s, Mrs. F. L. Corn meal bread, 376 
Strickles, Leola. A comparison of the 
digestibihty of starch in t\-pical batter 
and dough mixtures, 109 
Students' contributions: 85, 139, 233, 282, 

377 
Study and teaching: Correlation of chemis- 
try- and home economics, 114; Courses 
in sewing, 61; A summer course at 
Hampton, 496; Homemakers' course at 
Kansas Agricultural College, 174; Nor- 
mal School courses, 218; The "Penn" 
faroily problem (budget teaching), 58; 
School lunch as a project in teaching 
cooker>', 205; A score card for home 
economics English, 497; Special meth- 
ods courses in home economics, 210; 
Teaching home economics abroad, 39; 
Value of texrile chemistr>- to home eco- 
nomics students, 171 
See also Education 



1917] 



INDEX TO VOLUME DC 



593 



A study of amounts spent for food mate- 
rials, 234 

Substitutes: Alfalfa flour, 257; Barley, 333; 
Corn meal, 376; Dasheen, 81; Fish, 369; 
Mild and skimmed milk, 277; Oleomar- 
garine, 229 ; Salt for sugar in marmalade 
and jam, 375; Soy beans, 183; Sugges- 
tions from American Chemical Society, 
257 

A suggestion for Red Cross work in textUe 
classes, 222 

A suggestion in regard to the preparation 
and use of caramel, 167 

A summer course at Hampton, 496 

Sweat, Ruth. A study of amounts spent 
for food materials, 234 

Sweeping powder, 26 

Sweet potatoes, 138 



Teaching: See Study and teaching 

Textiles: Desirable change in test for silk 
and wool, 357; Manufactured silk, 377; 
Medium priced linens for institution 
and home, 447; Red Cross work in tex- 
tile classes, 222; The value of textile 
chemistry to the home economics stu- 
dent, 171 

The time necessary to do the work in a seven 
room house for a family of three, 569 

The tin can, 373 

Training women to earn — a national move- 
ment, 441 

True, A. C. Demonstrating in and to the 
home, 469 

Two messages from the Food Administra- 
tion, 467 

U 

United States food leaflets, 511 

University of Chicago students' pledge, 220, 

348* 
University of Chicago,* 439 
University of Illinois,* 299 
Utah Home Economics Association,* 48 



V.\N D\KE, Hentry. a message from, 575 

Van Zile, Mary P. The homemakers' 
course at K a n sas Agricultural College, 
174 

Veiller, Lawrence. The housing prob- 
lem, 492 

Vocational adviser,* 583 

Vocational education: Federal Board for,* 
487; Vocational adviser, 583 
See also Education; Smith-Hughes Bill 

Vocational Education Associarion of the 
Middle West,* 196 

Vitamines: Question box, 90 

VR001LA.N, Carl. We're aU in the same 
boat, 367; The family balanced ration, 
421 

W 

Walton, Alice Clorinda. Tne new feed- 
ing in the treatment of typhoid fever, 14 

Ward, Henry B. The housewife and the 
fish problem, 369 

Washington, D. C, Home Economics Asso- 
ciation,* 48, 300 

Waste: See Conservation 

We're all in the same boat, 367 

West, Mrs. Max. Can this Association 
help to reduce the death rate among 
children?, 489 

Western Home Economics Association,* 439 

WTiat about Katie?, 515 

WTiat the food situation is, 522 

What the home economics teacher can do, 
365 

WTiy the large calorie, 354 

WiDTSOE, Mrs. Le.a.h D. Homemaking as 
a profession, 29 

Wilson, Ellen H. The Consum Verein 
Shop, 521 

WiNSLOw, Emm-A a. National Conference 
of Charities and Corrections, 411 

Women and clothes, 127 

WooLMAN, ^Lary S. Medium priced linens 
for institution and home, 447 

The work of the Food Administration, 419 

Working, D. W. Financing the home 
demonstration work, 8 



The value of textile chemistr>' to the home 
economics student, 171 



Young, Helen B. The development of 
the house, 349 



TX Journal of home economics 

J7 
V.9 

Food 
Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



