ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York Statb Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 
TX 651. W87 
"•' Woman's Institute "brary of cooke^^^^ 




3 1924 003 570 573 




The original of tiiis book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003570573 



WOMAN'S Institute. 
Library of Cookery 




ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 
CEREALS 
BREAD ^ 

HOT BREADS 



WOMAN'S INSTITUTE , j 

OF DOMLSTIC ARTS AND SCIENCES, Inc. •/(: > ■ /« 
5CRANTON, PA. 



Essentials of Cookery, Parts 1 and 2: Copyright, 1917, by International Educatiohai. 

Publishing Company. 
Cereals: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing Company. 
Bread: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing Company. 
Hot Breads: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing Company. 



Copyright in Great Britain 



All rights reserved 
Printed in U. S. A, 



Press of 
International Textbook Company 966S9 

Scranton, Pa. 



PREFACE 



The Woman's Institute Library of Cookery consists of five 
volumes that cover the various phases of the subject of cookery as 
it is carried on in the home. These books contain the same text as 
the Instruction Papers of the Institute's Course in Cookery arranged 
so that related subjects are grouped together. Examination ques- 
tions pyertaining to the subject matter appear at the end of each 
section. These questions will prove helpful in a mastery of the 
subjects to which they relate, as they are the game as those on which 
students of the Institute are required to report. At the back of each 
volume is a complete index, which will assist materially in making 
quick reference to the subjects contained in it. 

This volume, which is the first of the set, deals with the essentials 
of cookery, cereals, bread, and hot breads. In Essentials of Cookery, 
Parts 1 and 2, are thoroughly treated the selection, buying, and 
care of food," as well as other matters that will lead to familiarity 
with terms used in cookery and to efficiency in the preparation 
of food. In Cereals are discussed the production, composition, 
selection, and care and the cooking and serving of cereals of all 
kinds. In Bread and Hot Breads are described all the ingre- 
dients required for bread, rolls, and hot breads of every kind, the 
processes and recipes to be followed in making and baking them, 
the procedure in serving them, and the way in which to care for 
such foods. 

Whenever advisable, utensils for the preparation of food, as 
well as labor-saving devices, are described, so as to enable beginners 
in the art of cookery to become acquainted with them quickly. In 
addition, this volume contains breakfast, luncheon, and dinner menus 
that will enable the housewife to put into practical, every-day use 
many of the recipes given. 

It is our hope that these volumes will help the housewife to 
acquire the knowledge needed to prepare daily meals that will con- 



iv PREFACE 

tain the proper sustenance for each member of her family, teach her 
how to buy her food judiciously and prepare and serve it econom- 
ically and appetizingly, and also instil in her such a liking for 
cookery that she will become enthusiastic about mastering and 
dignifying this womanly art. 



CONTENTS 



Essentials of Cookery Section Page 

The Problem of Food 1 1 

Selection of Food 1 5 

Food Substances 1 6 

Food Value 1 12 

Digestion and Absorption of Food 1 13 

Preparation of Food 1 21 

Methods of Cooking 1 22 

Heat for Cooking 1 31 

Utensils for Cooking 2 1 

Preparing Foods for Cooking 2 9 

Order of Work 2 17 

Table for Cooking Foods 2 18 

Care of Food 2 20 

Menus and Recipes 2 31 

Terms Used in Cookery 2 35 

Cereals 

Production, Composition, and Selection 3 1 

Cereals as a Food 3 6 

Preparation of Cereals for the Table 3 11 

Indian Corn, or Maize 3 15 

Wheat 3 21 

Rice 3 26 

Oats 3 32 

Barley 3 35 

Rye, Buckwheat, and Millet 3 37 

Prepared, or Ready-to-Eat, Cereals 3 38 

Serving Cereals 3 39 

Italian Pastes 3 39 

Breakfast Menu 3 47 



vi CONTENTS 

Bread Section Page 

Importance of Bread as Food 4 1 

Ingredients for Bread Making 4 3 

Utensils for Bread Making 4- lo 

Bread-Making Processes 4 16 

Making the Dough 4 18 

Care of the Rising Dough 4 24 

Kneading the Dough 4 24 

Shaping the Dough Into Loaves 4 27 

Baking the Bread 4 29 

Scoring Bread 4 32 

Use of the Bread Mixer 4 34 

Serving Bread 4 35 

Bread Recipes 4 36 

Recipes for Rolls, Buns, and Biscuits 4 44 

Toast 4 51 

Left-Over Bread 4 52 

Hot Breads 

Hot Breads in the Diet 5 1 

Principal Requirements for Hot Breads 5 2 

Leavening Agents 5 3 

Hot-Bread Utensils and Their Use 5 9 

Preparing the Hot-Bread Mixture 5 14 

Baking the Hot-Bread Mixture 5 15 

Serving Hot Breads 5 17 

Popover Recipes 5 18 

Griddle-Cake Recipes 5 20 

Waffle Recipes 5 24 

MufiRn Recipes 5 25 

Corn-Cake Recipes 5 29 

Biscuit Recipes 5 30 

Miscellaneous Hot-Bread Recipes 5 35 

Utilizing Left-Over Hot Breads 5 Z7 

Luncheon Menu 5 37 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 

(PART 1) 



THE PROBLEM OF FOOD 

1. Without doubt, the greatest problem confronting the human 
race is that of food. In order to exist, every person must eat ; but 
eating simply to keep life in the body is not enough. Aside from 
this, the body must be supplied with an ample amount of energy to 
carry on each day's work, as well as with the material needed for its 
growth, repair, and working power. To meet these requirements 
of the human body, there is nothing to take the place of food, not 
merely any kind, however, but the right kind. Indeed, so important 
is the right kind of food in the scheme of life that the child deprived 
of it neither grows nor increases in weight, and the adult who is 
unable to secure enough of it for adequate nourishment is deficient 
in nerve force and working power. If a person is to get the best out 
of life, the food taken into the body must possess real sustaining 
power and supply the tissues with the necessary building material ; 
and this truth points out that there are facts and principles that 
must be known in order that the proper selection of food may be 
made, that it may be so prepared as to increase its value, and that 
economy in its selection, preparation, use, and care may be 
exercised, 

2. Probably the most important of these principles is the cook- 
ing of food. While this refers especially to the preparation of food 
by subjecting edible materials to the action of heat, it involves much 
more. The cooking of food is a science as well as an art, and it 
depends for its success on known and established principles. In its 
full sense, cookery means not only the ability to follow a recipe, 
thereby producing a successfully cooked dish, but also the ability 
to select materials, a knowledge of the ways in which to prepare 

COPYRIOHTKD BY INTERNATIONAU KDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. A..L RIOHTS RFSCRVED 

SI 
w i—c 1— » 



2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

them, an understanding of their value for the persons for whom they 
are prepared, and ingenuity in serving foods attractively and in 
making the best use of food that may be left over from the previous 
meals, so that there will be practically no waste. Thus, while cook- 
ery in all its phases is a broad subject, it is one that truly belongs to 
woman, not only because of the pleasure she derives in preparing 
food for the members of her family, but because she is particularly 
qualified to carry on the work. 

3. The providing of food in the home is a matter that usually 
falls to the lot of the housewife ; in fact, on her depends the wise use 
of the family income. This means, then, that whether a woman is 
earning her own livelihood and has only herself to provide for, or 
whether she is spending a part of some other person's income, as, 
for instance, her father's or her husband's, she should understand 
how to proportion her money so as to provide the essential needs, 
namely, food, clothing, and shelter. In considering the question of 
providing food, the housewife should set about to determine what 
three meals a day will cost, and in this matter she should be guided 
by the thought that the meals must be the best that can possibly be 
purchased for the amount of money allowed lor food from the fam- 
ily income and that their cost must not exceed the allotment. To a 
great extent she can control the cost of her foods by selecting them 
with care and then making good use of what her money has bought. 
It is only by constant thought and careful planning, however, that 
she will be able to keep within her means, and she will find that her 
greatest assistance lies in studying foods and the ways in which to 
prepare them. 

4. A factor that should not be disregarded in the problem of 
food is waste, and so that the housewife can cope with it properly 
she should understand the distinction between waste and refuse. 
These terms are thought by some to mean the same thing and are 
often confused ; but there is a decided difference between them. 
Waste, as applied to food, is something that could be used but is 
not, whereas refuse is something that is rejected because it is unfit 
for use. For example, the fat of meat, which is often eaten, is 
waste if it is thrown away, but potato parings, which are not suit- 
able as food, are refuse. 

In connection with the problem of waste, it may be well to know 
that leakage in the household is due to three causes. The first one 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 3 

is lack of knowledge on the part of the housekeeper as to the diflfer- 
ence between waste and refuse and a consequent failure to market 
well. As an illustration, many housewives will reject turkey at a 
certain price a pound as being too expensive and, instead, will buy 
chicken at, say, 5 cents a pound less. In reality, chicken at 5 cents 
a pound less than the price of turkey is more expensive, because 
turkey, whose proportion of meat to bone is greater than that 
of chicken, furnishes more edible material; therefore, in buying 
chicken, they pay more for refuse in proportion to good material. 
The second cause for this leakage in the household is excessive 
waste in the preparation of food for the table, arising from the 
selection of the wrong cooking method or the lack of skill in cook- 
ing ; and the third cause is the serving of too large quantities and a 
consequent waste of food left on individual plates and unfit for 
any other use in the home. 

5. Another matter that constantly confronts the housewife is 
what foods she shall select for each day's meals. To be successful, 
all meals should be planned with the idea of making them whole- 
some and appetizing, giving them variety, and using the left-overs. 
Every woman should understand that food is cooked for both hygi- 
enic and esthetic reasons ; that is, it must be made safe and whole- 
some for health's sake and must satisfy the appetite, which to a 
considerable degree is mental and, of course, is influenced by the 
appearance of the food. When the housewife knows how to cook 
ordinary foods well, she has an excellent foundation from which to 
obtain variety in the diet — ^by which in these lessons is meant the 
daily food and drink of any individual, and not something pre- 
scribed by a physician for a person who is ill — for then it is simply 
a matter of putting a little careful thought into the work she is 
doing in order to get ideas of new ways in which to prepare these 
same foods and of utilizing foodstuffs she has on hand. However, 
ample time must always be allowed for the preparation of meals, 
for no one can expect to produce tasty meals by rushing into- the 
kitchen just before meal time and getting up the easiest thing in the 
quickest manner. Well-planned meals carefully prepared will 
stimulate interest in the next day's bill of fare and will prove 
extremely beneficial to all concerned. 

6. In the practice of cookery it is also important that the meals 
be planned and the cooking done for the sake of building the human 



4 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

body and caring for it. As soon as any woman realizes that both 
the present and the future welfare of the persons for whom she is 
providing foods depend on so many things that are included in 
cookery, her interest in this branch of domestic science will increase ; 
and in making a study of it she may rest assured that there 
is possibly no other calling that affords a more constant source of 
enjoyment and a better opportunity for acquiring knowledge, dis- 
playing skill, and helping others to be well and happy. 

The fact that people constantly desire something new and differ- 
ent in the way of food offers the housewife a chance to develop her 
ingenuity along this line. Then, too, each season brings with it 
special foods for enjoyment and nourishment, and there is constant 
satisfaction in providing the family with some surprise in the form 
of a dish to which they are unaccustomed, or an old one prepared in 
a new or a better way. But the pleasure need not be one-sided, for 
the adding of some new touch to each meal will give as much 
delight to the one who prepares the food as to those who partake of 
it. When cookery is thought of in this way, it is really a creative 
art and has for its object something more than the making of a 
single dish or the planning of a single meal. 

7. From what has been pointed out, it will readily be seen that 
a correct knowledge of cookery and all that it implies is of extreme 
importance to those who must prepare food for others ; indeed, it is 
for just such persons — the housewife who must solve cookery prob- 
lems from day to day, as well as girls and women who must prepare 
themselves to perform the duties with which they will be confronted 
when they take up the management of a household and its affairs — 
that these lessons in cookery are intended. 

In the beginning of this course of study in cookery it is deemed 
advisable to call attention to the order in which the subject matter 
is presented. As will be seen before much progress is made, the 
lessons are arranged progressively; that is, the instruction begins 
with the essentials, or important fundamentals, of food — its selec- 
tion, preparation, and care — and, from these as a foundation, 
advances step by step into the more complicated matters and minor 
details. The beginner eager to take up the actual work of cookery 
may feel that too much attention is given to preliminaries. How- 
ever, these are extremely essential, for they are the groundwork on 
which the actual cooking of food depends; indeed, without a 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 5 

knowledge of them, very little concerning cookery in its various 
phases could be readily comprehended. 

8. Each beginner in cookery is therefore urged to master every 
lesson in the order in which she receives it and to carry out dili- 
gently every detail. No lesson should be disregarded as soon as it 
is understood, for the instruction given in it bears a close relation 
to the entire subject and should be continually put into practice as 
progress is made. This thought applies with particular emphasis 
to the Sections relating to the essentials of cookery. These should 
be used in connection with all other Sections as books of reference 
and an aid in calling to mind points that must eventually become a 
part of a woman's cookery knowledge. By carrying on her studies 
systematically and following directions carefully, the beginner will 
find the cooking of foods a simple matter and will take delight in 
putting into practice the many things that she learns. 



SELECTION OF FOOD 



MATTERS INVOLVED IN RIGHT SELECTION 

9. Each one of the phases of cookery has its importance, but if 
success is to be achieved in this art, careful attention must be given 
to the selection of what is to be cooked, so as to determine its value 
and suitability. To insure the best selection, therefore, the house- 
wife should decide whether the food material she purchases will fit 
the needs of the persons who are to eat it ; whether the amount of 
labor involved in the preparation will be too great in proportion to 
the results obtained; whether the loss in preparation, that is, the 
proportion of refuse to edible matter, will be sufficient to affect the 
cost materially; what the approximate loss in cooking will be; 
whether the food will serve to the best advantage after it is cooked ; 
and, finally, whether or not all who are to eat it will like it. The 
market price also is a factor that cannot be disregarded, for, as has 
been explained, it is important to keep within the limits of the 
amount that may be spent and at the same time provide the right 
kind of nourishment for each member of the family. 

10. In order to select food material that will meet the require- 
ments just set forth, three important matters must be considered; 



6 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §1 

namely, the substances of which it is composed; its measure of 
energy-producing material, or what is called its food, or fuel, value; 
and its digestion and absorption. Until these are understood, the 
actual cost of any article of food cannot be properly determined, 
although its price at all times may be known. 

However, before a study of any of these matters is entered into, 
it is necessary to know just what is meant by food and what food 
does for the body. As is well understood, the body requires mate- 
rial by which it may be built and its tissues repaired when they are 
torn down by work and exercise. In additior i\ requires a supply 
of heat to maintain it at normal temperature and provide it with 
sufficient energy to do the work required of it. The material that 
will accomplish these important things is food, which may there- 
fore be regarded as anything that, when taken into the body, will 
build and repair its tissues or will furnish it with the energy 
required to do its work. 



FOOD SUBSTANCES 

11. Although, as has just been stated, food may be considered 
as anything that the human engine can make over into tissue or 
use in living and working, not all foods are equally desirable any 
more than all materials are equally good in the construction of a 
steam engine and in the production of its working power. Those 
food substances which are the most wholesome and healthful are the 
ones to be chosen, but proper choice cannot be made unless the 
buyer knows of what the particular food consists and what it is 
expected to do. To aid in the selection of food, therefore, it is 
extremely necessary to become familiar with the five substances, 
constituents, or principles of which foods are made up ; namely, 
water, mineral matter, or ash, protein, fat, and carbohydrate. A 
knowledge of these will help also in determining the cooking 
methods to adopt, for this depends on the effect that heat has on 
the various substances present in a food. Of course, so far as flavor 
is concerned, it is possible for the experienced cook to prepare 
many dishes successfully without knowing the effect of heat on the 
different food constituents ; but to cook intelligently, with that 
success which makes for actual economy and digestibility, certain 
facts must be known concerning the food principles and the effect 
of dry and moist heat on foods. 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY T 

12. Water. — Of the various constituents that are found in the 
human body, water occurs in the largest quantity. As a food sub- 
stance, it is an extremely important feature of a person's diet. Its 
chief purpose is to replenish the liquids of the body and to assist in 
the digestion of food. Although nature provides considerable 
amounts of water in most foods, large quantities must be taken in 
the diet as a beverage. In fact, it is the need of the body for water 
that has led to the development of numerous beverages. Besides 
being necessary in building up the body and keeping it in a healthy 
condition, water has a special function to perform in cooking, as is 
explained later. Although this food substance is extremely essen- 
tial to life, it is seldom considered in the selection of food, because, 
as has just been mentioned, nearly all foods contain water. 

13. Mineral Matter. — Ranking next to water in the quan- 
tity contained in the human body is mineral matter. This con- 
stituent, which is also called ash or mineral salts^ forms the main 
part of the body's framework, or skeleton. In the building and 
maintaining of the body, mineral salts serve three purposes — to 
give rigidity and permanence to the skeleton, to form an essential 
element of active tissue, and to provide the required alkalinity or 
acidity for the digestive juices and other secretions. 

The origin and distribution of these mineral substances are of 
interest. Plants in their growth seize from the earth the salts of 
minerals and combine them with other substances that make up 
their living tissue. Then human beings, as well as other living 
creatures, get their supply of these needed salts from the plants that 
they take as food, this being the only form in which the salts can 
be thoroughly assimilated. These salts are not affected by cook- 
ing unless some process is used that removes such of them as are 
readily soluble in water. When this occurs, the result is usually 
waste, as, for instance, where no use is made of the water in which 
some vegetables are boiled. As is true of water, mineral matter, 
even though it is found in large quantities in the body, is usually 
disregarded when food is purchased. This is due to the fact that 
this important nutritive material appears in some form in nearly all 
foods and therefore does not necessitate the housewife's stopping to 
question its presence. 

14. Protein. — ^The food substance known as protein is a very 
important factor in the growth and repair of the body; in fact, 



8 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

these processes cannot be carried on unless protein is present in the 
diet. However, while a certain quantity of protein is essential, the 
amount is not very large and more than is required is likely to be 
harmful, or, since the body can make no use of it, to be at least 
waste material. The principal sources of .protein are lean meat, 
eggs, milk, certain grains, nuts, and the legumes, which include such 
foods as beans and peas. Because of the ease with which they are 
digested, meat, fish, eggs, and milk are more valuable sources of 
protein than bread, beans, and nuts. However, as the foods that 
are most valuable for proteins cost more than others, a mixed diet is 
necessary if only a limited amount of money with which to pur- 
chase foods is available. 

15. So much is involved in the cooking of foods containing 
protein that the effect of heat on such foods should be thoroughly 
understood. The cooking of any food, as is generally understood, 
tends to break up the food and prepare it for digestion. However, 
foods have certain characteristics, such as their structure and 
texture, that influence their digestibility, and the method of cook- 
ing used or the degree to which the cooking is carried so affects 
these characteristics as to increase or decrease the digestibility 
of the food. In the case of foods containing protein, unless the 
cooking is properly done, the application of heat is liable to make 
the protein indigestible, for the heat first coagulates this substance 
— that is, causes it to become thick — and then, as the heat increases, 
shrinks and hardens it. This fact is clearly demonstrated in the 
cooking of an egg, the white of which is the type of protein called 
albumin. In a raw egg, the albumin is nearly liquid, but as heat is 
applied, it gradually coagulates until it becomes solid. If the egg 
is cooked too fast or too long, it toughens and shrinks and becomes 
less palatable, less attractive, and less digestible. However, if the 
egg is properly cooked after the heat has coagulated the albumin, 
the white will remain tender and the yolk will be fine and mealy in 
texture, thus rendering it digestible. 

Similar results, although not so evident to the sight, are brought 
about through the right or wrong way of cooking practically all 
other foods that contain much protein. Milk, whose principal 
ingredient is a protein known as casein, familiar as the curd of 
cheese, illustrates this fact very plainly. When it is used to make 
cottage cheese, heating it too long or to too high a degree will 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 9 

toughen the curd and actually spoil the texture of the product, 
which will be grainy and hard, instead of smooth and tender. 

16. Fats. — The food substances just discussed — water, mineral 
matter, and protein — ^yield the materials required for building and 
repairing the tissues of the body, but, as has been explained, the 
body also requires foods that produce energy, or working power. 
By far the greater part of the total solids of food taken into the 
body serve this purpose, and of these fats form a large percentage. 
Although fats make up such a large proportion of the daily food 
supply, they enter into the body composition to a less extent than 
do the food substances that have been explained. The fats com- 
monly used for food are of both animal and vegetable origin, such 
as lard, suet, butter, cream, olive oil, nut oil, and cottonseed oil. 
The ordinary cooking temperatures have comparatively little effect 
on fat, except to melt it if it is solid. The higher temperatures 
decompose at least some of it, and thus liberate substances that 
may be irritating to the digestive tract. 

17. Carboliydrates. — Like fats, the food substances included 
in the term carbohydrates supply the body with energy. However, 
fats and carbohydrates dififer in the forms in which they supply 
energy, the former producing it in the most concentrated form and 
the latter in the most economical form. 

So that the term carbohydrate may be clearly understood and 
firmly fixed in the mind, it is deemed advisable to discuss briefly 
the composition of the body and the food that enters it. Of course, 
in a lesson on cookery, not so much attention need be given to this 
matter as in a lesson on dietetics, which is a branch of hygiene that 
treats of diet; nevertheless, it is important that every person who 
prepares food for the table be familiar with the fact that the body, 
as well as food, is made up of a certain number of chemical ele- 
ments, of which nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen form a 
large part. Protein owes its importance to the fact that of the 
various food substances it alone contains the element nitrogen, 
which is absolutely essential to the formation of any plant or ani- 
mal tissue. The other three elements, carbon, hydrogen, and oxy- 
gen, go to make up the carbohydrates ; in fact, it is from the names 
of these three elements that the term carbohydrate is derived. The 
carbohydrates include the starches and sugars that are used and 
eaten in so many forms, and these contain the three elements 



10 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

mentioned, the hydrogen and oxygen contained in them being in the 
proportion that produces water. Thus, as will readily be seen, by 
separating the name into its parts — carbo (carbon) and hydrate 
(hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion of two parts of hydrogen 
and one of oxygen, that is, in the form of water) — carbohydrate is 
simply carbon united with water. While the facts just brought out 
have much to do with food economy, they are of interest here 
chiefly because they help to make clear the term carbohydrate, 
which, as will be admitted, is the only correct name for the food 
substance it represents. 

18. Starcli, one of the chief forms of carbohydrates, is found 
in only the vegetable kingdom. It is present in large quantities in 
the grains and in potatoes; in fact, nearly all vegetables contain 
large or small amounts of it. It is stored in the plant in the form 
of granules that lie within the plant cells. 

Cooking applied to starch changes it into a form that is digest- 
ible. Moist heat cooks the granules until they expand and burst 
and thus thicken the mass. Dry heat changes starch first into a 
soluble form and finally into what is called dextrine, this being the 
intermediate step in the changing of starch into sugar. 

19. Sugar, another important form of carbohydrate, is mainly 
of vegetable origin, except that which is found in milk and called 
lactose. This, together with the fat found in milk, supplies the child 
with energy before it is able to digest a variety of foods. The sap 
of various plants contains such large quantities of sugar that it can 
be crystalized out and secured in dry form. The liquid that remains 
is valuable as food, for, by boiling it down, it forms molasses. 
Sugar is also present in considerable amounts in all fruits, and much 
of it is in a form that can be assimilated, or taken up by the body, 
quickly. A sugar very similar to this natural fruit sugar is made 
from the starch of corn and is called glucose. Much of the carbo- 
hydrate found in vegetables, especially young, tender vegetables, is 
in the form of sugar, which, as the vegetables grow older, changes 
to starch. 

Sugar melts upon the application of heat or, if it is in a melted 
condition, as sirup or molasses, it boils down and gives off water. 
When all the water has boiled away, the sugar begins to caramelize 
or become brown, and develops a characteristic flavor. If the 
cooking is continued too long, a dark-brown color and a bitter taste 



§1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 11 

are developed. Because the sugar in fruits and vegetables is in 
solution, some of it is lost when they are boiled, unless, of course, 
the water in which they are cooked is utilized. 

20. Cellulose is a form of carbohydrate closely related to 
starch. It helps to form the structure of plants and vegetables. 
Very little cellulose iS digested, but it should not be ignored, 
because it gives the necessary bulk to the food in which it occurs 
and because strict attention must be paid to the cooking of it. 
As cellulose usually surrounds nutritive material of vegetable 
origin, it must be softened and loosened sufficiently by cooking to 
permit the nutritive material to be dissolved by the digestive juices. 
Then, too, in old vegetables, there is more starch and the cellulose 
is harder and tougher, just as an old tree is much harder than a 
sapling. This, then, accounts for the fact that rapid cooking is 
needed for some vegetables and slow cooking for others, the 
method and the time of cooking depending on the presence and the 
consistency of the cellulose that occurs in the food. 

21. Importance of a Variety of Foods. — Every one of the 
five food substances just considered must be included in a person's 
diet ; yet, with the exception of milk, no single food yields the 
right amounts of material necessary for tissue building and repair 
and for heat and energy. Even milk is in the right proportion, as 
far as its food substances are concerned, only for babies and very 
young children. It will thus be seen that to provide the body with 
the right foods, the diet must be such as to include all the food 
substances. In food selection, therefore, the characteristics of the 
various food substances must be considered well. Fats yield the 
most heat, but are the most slowly digested. Proteins and carbo- 
hydrates are more quickly digested than fats, but, in equal amounts, 
have less than half as much food value. Water and mineral salts 
do not yield heat, but are required to build tissue and to keep the 
body in a healthy condition. In addition, it is well to nete that a 
well-balanced diet is one that contains all of the five food sub- 
stances in just the right proportion in which the individual needs 
them to build up the body, repair it, and supply it with energy. 
What this proportion should be, however, cannot be stated offhand, 
because the quantity and kind of food substances necessarily vary 
with the size, age, and activity of each person. 



12 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 



FOOD VALUE 

22. Nearly all foods are complex substances, and they differ 
from one another in what is known as their value, which is mea- 
sured by the work the food does in the body either as a tissue 
builder or as a producer of energy However, in considering food 
value, the person who prepares food must not lose sight of the fact 
that the individual appetite must be appealed to by a sufficient vari- 
ety of appetizing foods. There would be neither economy nor 
advantage in serving food that does not please those who are to 
eat it. 

While all foods supply the body with energy, they differ very 
much in the quantity they yield. If certain ones were chosen 
solely for that purpose, it would be necessary for any ordinary 
person to consume a larger quantity of them than could be eaten 
at any one time. For instance, green vegetables furnish the body 
with a certain amount of energy, but they cannot be eaten to the 
exclusion of other things, because no person could eat in a day a 
sufficient amount of them to give the body all the energy it would 
need for that day's work. On the other hand, certain foods produce 
principally building material, and if they were taken for the pur- 
pose of yielding only energy, they would be much too expensive. 
Meats, for example, build up the body, but a person's diet would 
cost too much if meat alone were depended on to provide the body 
with all the energy it requires. Many foods, too, contain mineral 
salts, which, as has been pointed out, are needed for building tissue 
and keeping the bociy in a healthy condition. 

23. To come to a correct appreciation of the value of different 
foods, it is necessary to understand the unit employed to measure 
the amount of work that foods do in the body. This unit is the 
calorie, or calory, and it is used to measure foods just as the inch, 
the yard, the pound, the pint, and the quart are the units used to 
measure materials and liquids ; however, instead of measuring the 
food itself, it determines its food value, or fuel value. To illus- 
trate what is meant, consider, for instance, i ounce of sugar and 
i ounce of butter. As far as the actual weight of these two foods 
is concerned, they are equal ; but with regard to the work they do 
in the body they differ considerably. Their relative value in the 
body, however, can be determined if they are measured by some 



§ i ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 13 

unit that can be applied to both. It is definitely known that both 
of them produce heat when they are oxidized, that is, when they 
are combined with oxygen; thus, the logical way of measuring 
them is to determine the quantity of heat that will be produced 
when they are eaten and united with oxygen, a process that causes 
the liberation of heat. The calorie is the unit by which this heat 
can be measured, it being the quantity of heat required to raise the 
temperature of 1 pint of water 4 degrees Fahrenheit, which is the 
name of the thermometer commonly used in the home. When 
burned as fuel, a square of butter weighing J ounce produces 
enough heat to raise 1 pint of water 400 degrees Fahrenheit, and it 
will yield the same amount of heat when it is eaten and goes 
through the slow process of oxidation in the body. On the other 
hand, -J ounce of sugar upon being oxidized will produce only 
enough heat to raise the temperature of 1 pint of water about 230 
degrees Fahrenheit. Thus, as will be seen, J ounce of butter has a 
value of approximately 100 calories, whereas i ounce of sugar con- 
tains only about 574 calories. 

Other foods yield heat in varying degrees, and their food value 
is determined in exactly the same way as that of butter and sugar. 
To give an idea of the composition of various food materials, as 
well as the number of calories that 1 pound of these food materials 
will yield, food charts published by the United States Department 
of Agriculture are here presented. As an understanding of these 
charts will prove extremely profitable in the selection of food, a 
careful study of them at this time is urged. In addition, reference 
to them should be made from time to time as the various kinds of 
foods are taken up, as the charts will then be more easily compre- 
hended and their contents of more value. 



DIGESTION AND ABSORPTION OF FOOD 

24. The third requirement in the selection of food, namely, its 
digestion and absorption, depends considerably on the persons who 
are to be fed. Food that is chosen for adults entirely would not be 
the same as that intended for both young persons and adults; 
neither would food that is to be fed to children or persons who are 
ill be the same as that which is to be served to robust adults who 
do a normal amount of work. No hard-and-fast rules can be laid 




u. < 



2 

< 

til 

Q 
O 
O 
tit 

o 

z 

o 

h 
O 

Oh 

O 
U 




2 
< 

oi 

i 

Q 
O 

2 

O 

z 
o 

h 
So 

O 
Hi 

O 







III 








U!l 



o 










g 





15 1 






1 


FUEL VALUE 

■ 



g 5 




15 



.ijfite-; 



2 
< 

as 

Q 
O 
O 
ti< 

o 
o 

h 
CO 

O 

O 

U 





16 



2 

< 

Oi 
tii 

i 

Q 
O 
O 
(n 

o 
o 

h 

O 

o 




2 
< 

h 

o 
o 

O 

o 

h 
S3 
O 

Cl, 

O 
u 




□ 




w I— Cl— J 



2 
< 

Q 
O 
O 

b. 
O 

z 
o 

en 
O 

S" 

o 
u 






U! 


"m 


•< 


Li- 


bl 


^ 3 
o 1 






bJ 




Cd 


s°- 


CO 



2 
<: 

oi 
tii 

Q 
O 
O 
(I. 

b 
O 

z 
o 

o 

eu 

O 
O 




M 



2 

<: 

OS 

'i 

S 

Q 
O 
O 
u, 

tn 
O 

z 
o 

h 

CO 
O 

(u 

S 

o 




CO 

<: 

Q 
O 
O 

b 
O 

Z 

o 

h 

CO 

O 

S 

o 
u 




19 



20 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD MATERIALS 



Protein Fat Carbohydrates 

WALNUT 



Ash: 1.4 




Fuel Valu* 

I % Sq. In. Equal! 

1. 000 Caloiies 



CHESTNUT 

Protein: 10.7---^ jS^Da — Water: 5.9 



Fat: 63.4 



Fat: 7.0 

Carbohydrates: 
74.2 



Carbohydrates: 16.1 

FUEL VALUE: ncAXTTTT' Carbo - 

^^^^^^.., PEAJ4UT hydrates: 
^^^^^^^^H Water: ^iKaMjMij^ — ^22.4 

3285 CALORIES o . . -<^^r^^C ^^ , 
PER POUND Protein: 25.8 ^Fat: 38.6 

fUEL VALUE; 




Ash: 2.2 



1875 CALORIES 
PER POUKO 



PEANUT BUTTER 

Water: 2. 



2500 CALORIES 
PER POUND 




■Protein: 29.3 



Protein: 6.3 
Fat: 57.4 



COCOANUT 

DESICCATED 

Water: 3.5 



Carbohydrates: 31.5 
— 'Carbohydrates: 17.1 Ash: 1.3 




2825 CALORIES PER POUND 



3125 CALORIES PER POUND 



down here for this phase of food selection, but as these lessons in 
cookery are taken up in turn, the necessary knowledge regarding 
digestibility will be acquired. 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 21 



PREPARATION OF FOOD 



REASONS FOR COOKING FOOD 

25. The term cookery, as has been explained, means the prep- 
aration of both hot and cold dishes for use as food, as well as the 
selection of the materials or substances that are to be cooked. The 
importance of cooking foods by subjecting them to the action of 
heat has been recognized for ages; and while it is true that there 
are many foods that appeal to the appetite in their raw state and 
still others that can be eaten either raw or cooked, there are several 
reasons why it is desirable to cook food, as will be seen from the 
following : 

1. Cooking makes foods more palatable. This is true of such 
foods as meat, cereals, and many vegetables, which would be very 
unappetizing if they were eaten raw. 

2. Cooking renders foods more digestible. For instance, the 
hard grains, such as wheat, and the dried vegetables, such as beans, 
cannot be readily digested unless they are softened by cooking. 
But while cooking makes such foods more digestible, it renders 
others more difficult of digestion, as in the case of eggs, the degree 
of digestibility depending somewhat on the cooking method used 
and the skill of the cook. An tgg in an almost liquid form, or 
when only slightly cooked, as a soft-boiled egg, is more easily 
digested than when it becomes hardened by cooking. Then, too, a 
properly prepared hard-cooked egg is more digestible than an 
improperly cooked one, although the degree of hardness may be 
the same. 

3. Cooking gives foods greater variety. The same food may be 
cooked by various methods and be given very different tastes and 
appearances; on the other hand, it may be combined with a large 
number of other foods, so as to increase the variety of the dishes in 
which it is used. The large number of recipes found in cook books 
show the attempts that have been made to obtain variety in cooked 
dishes by the combining of different foods. 



22 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

4. Cooking sterilizes foods either partly or completely. Many 
foods need partial or complete sterilization for safety. They must 
be completely sterlized if the germs that produce fermentation or 
putrefaction and thereby spoil food would be destroyed. This is 
done when fruits and vegetables are canned for keeping. Foods 
that are exposed to dust, flies, and improper handling should be 
thoroughly cooked in order to destroy any pathogenic germs that 
might be present. By such germs are meant disease-bearing germs. 
They differ from germs that produce fermentation and putrefaction, 
or spoiling, and that must in general be considered as a help, for 
these play an important part in the raising of bread and the prep- 
aration of various foods, as is pointed out later. 

5. Cooking develops flavor in many foods. In the case of some 
vegetables, the flavoring substance is given off in the air by certain 
methods of cooking and a better flavor is thereby developed. 



METHODS OF COOKING 



COOKIIVG PROCESSES 



26. Food is cooked by the application of heat, which may be 
either moist or dry. While it is true that the art of cooking in- 
cludes the preparation of material that is served or eaten raw, cook- 
ing itself is impossible without heat; indeed, the part of cooking 
that requires the most skill and experience is that in which heat is 
involved. Explicit directions for carrying on the various cooking 
processes depend on the kind of stove, the cooking utensils, and 
even the atmospheric conditions. In truth, the results of some proc- 
esses depend so much on the state of the atmosphere that they are 
not successful on a day on which it is damp and heavy ; also, as is 
well known, the stove acts perfectly on some days, whereas on other 
days it seems to have a stubborn will of its own. Besides the diffi- 
culties mentioned, the heat itself sometimes presents obstacles in 
the cooking of foods, to regulate it in such a way as to keep it uni- 
form being often a hard matter. Thus, a dish may be spoiled by 
subjecting it to heat that is too intense, by cooking it too long, or 
by not cooking it rapidly enough. All these points must be learned, 
and the best way to master them is to put into constant practice the 
principles that are involved in cookery. 



§1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 23 

27. Without doubt, the first step in gaining a mastery of cook- 
ery is to become famiHar with the different methods and processes, 
the ways in which they are appHed, and the reasons for applying 
them. There are numerous ways of cooking food, but the prin- 
cipal processes are boiling, stewing, steaming, dry steaming, braiz- 
ing, fricasseeing, roasting, baking, broiling, pan broiling, frying, 
and sauteing. Which one of these to use will depend on the food 
that is to be cooked and the result desired. If the wrong method is 
employed, there will be a waste of food material or the food will be 
rendered less desirable in flavor or tenderness. For example, it 
would be both wasteful and undesirable to roast a tough old fowl 
or to boil a tender young broiler. 

The various methods of cookery just mentioned naturally divide 
themselves into three groups ; namely, those involving dry heat, 
those requiring moist heat, and those in which hot fat is the cook- 
ing medium. 



COOKING AVITH DRY HEAT 



28. Cooking with dry heat includes broiling, pan broiling, 
roasting, and baking; but, whichever of these processes is used, 
the principle is practically the same. In these processes the food 
is cooked by being exposed to the source of heat or by being 
placed in a closed oven and subjected to heated air. When dry 
heat is applied, the food to be cooked is heated to a much greater 
temperature than when moist heat is used. 

29. Broiling-. — The cooking process known as broiling con- 
sists in exposing directly to the source of heat the food that is to 
be cooked ; that is, in cooking it over or before a clear bed of coals 
or a gas flame. The aim in broiling is to retain the juices of food 
and develop flavor. As it is a quick method, foods that are not 
tender, as, for example, tough meats, should not be broiled, because 
broiling does not help to render their fibers more tender. In apply- 
ing this cooking process, which is particularly suitable for tender 
portions of meat and for young fowl, the food should be exposed to 
intense heat at first in order to sear all surfaces quickly and thus 
retain the juices. At the beginning of the cooking, the article that 
is being broiled should be turned often; then, as soon as the out- 
side is browned, the heat should be reduced if possible, as with a 
gas stove, and the article allowed to cook until done. If the broiling 



24 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

is done over coals, it is necessary to continue the turning during 
the entire process. While broiling produces an especially good flavor 
in the foods to which it is applied, provided they are not tough, it is 
not the most economical way of cooking. 

30. Pan Broiling. — Pan broiling is an adaptation of the broil- 
ing method. It consists in cooking food in a sissing-hot pan on top 
of the stove without the use of fat. In this process the surfaces of 
the steak, chop, or whatever the food may be, are quickly seared, 
after which the article is turned frequently and cooked more slowly 
until done. The object of pan broiling is the same as that of broiling, 
and it is resorted to, as a rule, when the fire is not in the right 
condition for broiling. 

31. Roasting. — Originally, the term to roast meant to cook 
before a fire, because, before the time of stoves, practically all food 
was cooked in the fireplace. Food that was to be roasted was 
placed before the fire in a device that reflected heat, this device 
being open on the side toward the fire and closed on that toward 
the room. The roast was suspended in this device, slowly turned, 
and thus cooked by radiant heat — that is, heat given off in the form 
of direct rays — the principle being the same as that of broiling, 
but the application different. Nowadays, the term roasting is 
almost universally applied to the action of both hot air and radiant 
heat. However, much of what is called roasting is in reality bak- 
ing. Foods cooked in the oven of an ordinary coal or gas range 
are really baked, although they are said to be roasted, and a cov- 
ered roasting pan is a misnomer. Food must be exposed to the air 
in the process of cooking if it is to be roasted in the true sense. 

It may be well to note that successful roasting or broiling 
depends more on the shape of the article to be roasted or broiled 
than on its weight. For this reason, thick, compact cuts of meat 
are usually selected for roasting and thin cuts for broiling. Good 
results also depend very much on the pan selected for the roasting 
process. One of the great aims in cooking should be to save or 
conserve all the food possible ; that is, if by one process less waste 
in cooking results, it should be chosen rather than one that will 
result in loss at the end of the cooking process. 

32. Baking. — By baking is meant cooking in a heated oven at 
temperatures ranging from 300 to 500 degrees Fahrenheit. As the 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 25 

term baking is frequently used in a wrong sense, the actual con- 
ditions of the process should be thoroughly understood. In both 
broiling and the original method of roasting, the heat is applied 
directly ; that is, the food is exposed directly to the source of heat. 
Actual baking differs from these processes in that it is done in a 
closed oven or by means of heated air. Starchy foods, such 
as bread, cakes, and pastry, are nearly always baked, and gradu- 
ally other foods, such as meats, fish, and vegetables are being sub- 
jected to this method of cooking. In fact, persons who are skilled 
in cooking use the oven more and more for things that they for- 
merly thought had to be cooked in other ways. But the name that 
is applied to the process depends somewhat on custom, for while 
meat that is cooked in the oven is really baked, it is usually termed 
roasted meat. It seems strange, but it is nevertheless true, that 
ham cooked in the oven has always been termed baked, while 
turkey cooked in exactly the same way is said to be roasted. 



COOKING WITH MOIST HEAT 

33. The methods of cooking with moist heat, that is, through 
the medium of water, are boiling, simmering, steaming, dry steam- 
ing, and braizing. In every one of these processes, the effect of 
moist heat on food is entirely different from that of dry heat. 
However, the method to be selected depends to a great extent on 
the amount of water that the food contains. To some foods much 
water must be added in the cooking process ; to others, only a little 
or none at all. If food is not placed directly in large or small quan- 
tities of water, it is cooked by contact with steam or in a utensil 
that is heated by being placed in another containing boiling water, 
as, for example, a double boiler. 

As water is such an important factor in cooking with moist heat, 
something concerning its nature and use should be understood. 
Therefore, before considering the moist-heat cooking processes in 
detail, the function of water in the body and in cooking and also the 
kinds of water are discussed. 

34. Function of Water In the Body. — ^Water supplies no 
energy to the body, but it plays a very important part in nutrition. 
In fact, its particular function in the body is to act as a solvent and 
a carrier of nutritive material and waste. In doing this work, it 
keeps the liquids of the body properly diluted, increases the flow of 



26 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

the digestive juices, and helps to carry off waste material. How- 
ever, its ability to perform these necessary functions in the right 
way depends on its quality and its safety. 

35. Kinds of Water. — Water is either hard or soft. As it 
falls from the clouds, it is pure and soft until it comes in contact 
with gases and solids, which are dissolved by it and change its 
character. It is definitely known that the last of the water that 
falls in a shower is much better than the first, as the first cleanses 
not only the air, but the roofs and other things with which it comes 
in contact. In passing through certain kinds of soil or over rocks, 
water dissolves some of the minerals that are contained there and is 
thus changed from soft to hard water. If sewage drains into a well 
or water supply, the water is liable to contain bacteria, which will 
render it unfit and unsafe for drinking until it is sterilized by boil- 
ing. Besides rain water and distilled water, there is none that is 
entirely soft; all other waters hold certain salts in solution to a 
greater or less degree. 

The quality of hardness, which is present in nearly all water, is 
either temporary or permanent. Water is temporarily hard when 
it contains soluble lime, which is precipitated, that is, separated 
from it, upon boiling. Every housewife who uses a teakettle is 
familiar with this condition. The lime precipitated day after day 
clings to the sides of the vessel in which the water is boiled, and 
in time they become very thickly coated. Permanent hardness is 
caused by other compounds of lime that are not precipitated by 
boiling the water. The only way in which to soften such water is 
to add to it an alkali, such as borax, washing soda, or bicarbonate 
of soda. 

36. Uses of Water in Cooking. — It is the solvent, or dis- 
solving, power of water that makes this liquid valuable in cooking, 
but of the twc kinds, soft water is preferable to hard, because it 
possesses greater solvent power, This is due to the fact that hard 
water has already dissolved a certain amount of material and wall 
therefore dissolve less of the food substances and flavors when it is 
used for cooking purposes than soft water, which has dissolved 
nothing. It is known, too, that the flavor of such beverages as tes 
and coffee is often greatly impaired by the use of hard water. 
Dried beans and peas, cereals, and tough cuts of meat will not cook 
tender so readily in hard water as in soft, but the addition of a 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 27 

small amount of soda during the cooking of these foods will assist 
in softening them. 

Water is used in cooking chiefly for extracting flavors, as in the 
making of coffee, tea, and soups ; as a medium for carrying flavors 
and foods in such beverages as lemonade and cocoa ; for softening 
both vegetable and animal fiber ; and for cooking starch and dis- 
solving sugar, salt, gelatine, etc. In accomplishing much of this 
work, water acts as a medium for conveying heat. 

37. Boiling:. — ^As applied to cooking, boiling means cooking 
foods in boiling water. Water boils when its temperature is 
raised by heat to what is commonly termed its boiling point. This 
varies with the atmospheric pressure, but at sea level, under ordi- 
nary conditions, it is always 212 degrees Fahrenheit. When the 
atmospheric pressure on the surface of the water is lessened, boil- 
ing takes place at a lower temperature than that mentioned, and in 
extremely high altitudes the boiling point is so lowered that to cook 
certain foods by means of boiling water is difficult. As the water 
heats in the process of boiling, tiny bubbles appear on the bottom 
of the vessel in which it is contained and rise to the surface. Then, 
gradually, the bubbles increase in size until large ones form, rise 
rapidly, and break, thus producing constant agitation of the water. 

38. Boiling has various effects on foods. It toughens the albu- 
min in eggs, toughens the fiber and dissolves the connective tissues 
in meat, softens the cellulose in cereals, vegetables, and fruits, and 
dissolves other substances in many foods. A good point to bear in 
mind in preparing foods by boiling is that slowly boiling water has 
the same temperature as rapidly boiling water and is therefore able 
to do exactly the same work. Keeping the gas burning full heat or 
running the fire hard to keep the water boiling rapidly is therefore 
unnecessary; besides, it wastes fuel without doing the work any 
faster and sometimes not so well. However, there are several fac- 
tors that influence the rapidity with which water may be brought 
to the boiling point; namely, the kind of utensil used, the amount 
of surface exposed, and the quantity of heat applied. A cover 
placed on a saucepan or a kettle in which food is to be boiled retains 
the heat, and thus causes the temperature to rise more quickly; 
besides, a cover so used prevents a loss of water by condensing the 
steam as it rises against the cover. As water boils, some of it con- 
stantly passes off in the form of steam, and for this reason sirups 



28 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

or sauces become thicker the longer they are cooked. The evapo- 
ration takes place all over the surface of the water ; consequently, 
the greater the surface exposed, the more quickly is the quantity of 
water decreased during boiling. Another point to observe in the 
boiling process is that foods boiled rapidly in water have a ten- 
dency to lose their shape and are reduced to small pieces if allowed 
to boil long enough. 

Besides serving to cook foods, boiling also renders water safe, as 
it destroys any germs that may be present. This explains why 
water must sometimes be boiled to make it safe for drinking. 
Boiled water, as is known, loses its good taste. However, as this 
change is brought about by the loss of air during boiling, the flavor 
can be restored and air again introduced if the water is shaken in a 
partly filled jar or bottle, or beaten vigorously for a short time with 
an egg beater. 

39. Simmering, or Stewing. — ^The cooking process known 
as simmering, or stewing, is a modification of boiling. By this 
method, food is cooked in water at a temperature below the boiling 
point, or anywhere from 185 to 200 degrees Fahrenheit. Water at 
the simmering point always moves gently — never rapidly as it does 
in boiling. Less heat and consequently less fuel are required to 
cook foods in this way, unless, of course, the time consumed in 
cooking the food at a low temperature is much greater than that 
consumed in cooking it more rapidly. 

Aside from permitting economy in the use of fuel, simmering, 
or stewing, cooks deliciously certain foods that could not be selected 
for the more rapid methods. For example, tough cuts of meat 
and old fowl can be made tender and tasty by long cooking at a low 
temperature, for this method tends to soften the fiber and to develop 
an excellent flavor. Tough vegetables, too, can be cooked tender 
by the simmering process without using so much fuel as would be 
used if they were boiled, for whatever method is used they require 
long cooking. Beets, turnips, and other winter vegetables should 
be stewed rather than boiled, as it is somewhat difficult to cook 
them tender, especially in the late winter and early spring. If dry 
beans and peas are brought to the simmering point and then allowed 
to cook, they can be prepared for the table in practically the same 
length of time and without so much fuel as if they boiled con- 
tinuously. 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 29 

40. Steaming. — ^As its name implies, steaming is the cooking 
of food by the application of steam. In this cooking process, the 
food is put into a steamer, which is a cooking utensil that consists 
of a vessel with a perforated bottom placed over one containing 
water. As the water boils, steam rises and cooks the food in the 
upper, or perforated, vessel. Steamers are sometimes arranged 
with a number of perforated vessels, one on top of the other. Such 
a steamer permits of the cooking of several foods at the same time 
without the need of additional fuel, because a different food may be 
placed in each vessel. 

Steaming is preferable to boiling in some cases, because by it 
there is no loss of mineral salts nor food substances; besides, the 
flavor is not so likely to be lost as when food is boiled. Vegetables 
prepared in this way prove very palatable, and very often variety 
is added to the diet by steaming bread, cake, and pudding mixtures 
and then, provided a crisp outside is desired, placing them in a hot 
oven to dry out the moist surface. 

41. Dry Steaming. — Cooking foods in a vessel that is sus- 
pended in another one containing boiling water constitutes the 
cooking method known as dry steaming. The double boiler is a 
cooking utensil devised especially for carrying on this process. The 
food placed in the suspended, or inner, vessel does not reach the 
boiling point, but is cooked by the transfer of heat from the water in 
the outside, or lower, vessel. A decided advantage of this method is 
that no watching is required except to see that the water in the 
lower vessel does not boil away completely, for as long as there is 
water between the food and the fire, the food will neither boil nor 
burn. 

Because of the nature of certain foods, cooking them by this proc- 
ess is especially desirable. The flavor and consistency of cereals 
and foods containing starch are greatly improved by long cooking 
in this way. Likewise, custards and mixtures containing eggs can 
be conveniently cooked in a double boiler, because they do not 
require a high temperature ; in fact, their texture is spoiled if they 
are cooked at the boiling point. To heat milk directly over the flame 
without scorching it is a difficult matter, and, on the other hand, 
boiled milk is hard to digest. Because of these facts, food contain- 
ing milk should not be boiled, but should be cooked at a lower tem- 
perature in a double boiler. 



30 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §1 

42. Braizing. — Cooking meat in an oven in a closed pan with 
a small quantity of water constitutes braizing. This cooking proc- 
ess might be called a combination of stewing and baking, but 
when it is properly carried out, the meat is placed on a rack so as to 
be raised above the water, in which may be placed sliced vegetables. 
In this process the meat actually cooks in the flavored steam that 
surrounds it in the hot pan. The so-called double roasting pans 
are in fact braizing pans when they are properly used. A pot 
roast is the result of a modification of the braizing method. 



COOKING WITH HOT FAT 

43. Of the three mediums of conveying heat to food, namely, 
hot air, hot water, and hot fat, that of hot fat renders food the 
least digestible. Much of this difficulty, however, can be overcome 
if an effort is made to secure as little absorption of the fat as pos- 
sible. If the ingredients of the food are properly mixed before 
applying the fat and if the fat is at the right temperature, good 
results can be obtained by the various methods of cooking with hot 
fat, which are frying, sauteing, and fricasseeing. 

44. Frying. — By frying is meant the cooking of food in deep 
fat at a temperature of 350 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Any kind 
of fat that will not impart flavor to the food may be used for frying, 
but the vegetable oils, such as cottonseed oils, combinations of 
coconut and cottonseed oils, and nut oils, are preferable to lards 
and other animal fats, because they do not burn so easily. Foods 
cooked in deep fat will not absorb the fat nor become greasy if they 
are properly prepared, quickly fried, and well drained on paper 
that will absorb any extra fat. 

45. SautSlng. — Browning food first on one side and then on 
the other in a small quantity of fat is termed sauteing. In this 
cooking process, the fat is placed in a shallow pan, and when it is 
sufficiently hot, the food is put into it. Foods that are to be sauted 
are usually sliced thin or cut into small pieces, and they are turned 
frequently during the process of cooking. All foods prepared in 
this way are difficult to digest, because they become more or less hard 
and soaked with fat. Chops and thin cuts of meat, which are 
intended to be pan-broiled, are really sauted if they are allowed to 
cook in the fat that fries out of them. 



§1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 31 

46. Fricasseeing. — A combination of sauteing and stewing 
results in the cooking process known as fricasseeing. This process 
is used in preparing such foods as chicken, veal, or game, but it is 
more frequently employed for cooking fowl, which, in cookery, is 
the term used to distinguish the old of domestic fowls from chickens 
or pullets. In fricasseeing, the meat to be cooked is cut into pieces 
and sauted either before or after stewing; then it is served with a 
white or a brown sauce. Ordinarily, the meat should be browned 
first, unless it is very tough, in order to retain the juices and 
improve the flavor. However, very old fowl or tough meat should 
be stewed first and then browned. 



HEAT FOR COOKING 



GENERAL, DISCUSSION 

47. Inasmuch as heat is so important a factor in the cooking of 
foods, it is absolutely necessary that the person who is to prepare 
them be thoroughly familiar with the ways in which this heat is 
produced. The production of heat for cooking involves the use of 
fuels and stoves in which to burn them, as well as electricity, which 
serves the purpose of a fuel, and apparatus for using electricity. In 
order, therefore, that the best results may be obtained in cookery, 
these subjects are here taken up in detail. 

48. Probably the first fuel to be used in the production of heat 
for cooking was wood, but later such fuels as peat, coal, charcoal, 
coke, and kerosene came into use. Of these fuels, coal, gas, and 
kerosene are used to the greatest extent in the United States. 
Wood, of course, is used considerably for kindling fires, and it 
serves as fuel in localities where it is abundant or less difficult to 
procure than other fuels. However, it is fast becoming too scarce 
and too expensive to burn. If it must be burned for cooking pur- 
poses, those who use it should remember that dry, hard wood gives 
off heat at a more even rate than soft wood, which is usually selected 
for kindling. Electricity is coming into favor for supplying 
heat for cooking, but only when it can be sold as cheaply as ga& 
will its use in the home become general. 



32 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 1 

49. The selection of a stove to be used for cooking depends on 
the fuel that is to be used, and the fuel, in turn, depends on the local- 
ity in which a person lives. However, as the fuel that is the most 
convenient and easily obtained is usually the cheapest, it is the one 
to be selected, for the cost of the cooked dish may be greatly 
increased by the use of fuel that is too expensive. In cooking, every 
fuel should be made to do its maximum amount of work, because 
waste of fuel also adds materially to the cost of cooking and, 
besides, it often causes great inconvenience. For example, cooking 
on a red-hot stove with a fire that, instead of being held in the oven 
and the lids, overheats the kitchen and burns out the stove not only 
wastes fuel and material, but also taxes the temper of the person 
who is doing the work. From what has just been said, it will read- 
ily be seen that a knowledge of fuels and apparatus for producing 
heat will assist materially in the economical production of food, 
provided, of course, it is applied to the best advantage. 



COAIi AND coke: 

50. Varieties of Coal. — Possibly the most common fuel used 
for cooking is coal. This fuel comes in two varieties, namely, 
anthracite, or hard coal, and bituminous, or soft coal. Their relative 
cost depends on the locality, the kind of stove, and an intelligent use 
of both stove and fuel. Hard coal costs much more in some places 
than soft coal, but it burns more slowly and evenly and gives off 
very little smoke. Soft coal heats more rapidly than hard coal, but 
it produces considerable smoke and makes a fire that does not last 
so long. Unless a stove is especially constructed for soft coal, it 
should not be used for this purpose^ because the burning of soft 
coal will wear it out in a short time. The best plan is to use each 
variety of coal in a stove especially constructed for it, but if a house- 
wife finds that she must at times do otherwise, she should realize 
that a different method of management and care of the stove is 
demanded. 

51. Sizes of Coal. — ^As the effect of coal on the stove must be 
taken into consideration in the buying of fuel, so the different sizes 
of hard coal must be known before the right kind can be selected. 
The sizes known as stove and egg coal, which range from about If 
to 2f inches in diameter, are intended for a furnace and should not 
be used in the kitchen stove for cooking purposes. Some persons 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 33 

who know how to use the size of coal known as pea, which is about 
i to f inch in diameter, like that kind, whereas others prefer the 
size called chestnut, which is about f inch to If inches in diameter. 
In reality, a mixture of these two, if properly used, makes the best 
and most easily regulated kitchen coal fire. 

52. Quality of Coal. — In addition to knowing the names, 
prices, and uses of the different kinds of coal, the housewife should 
b.e able to distinguish poor coal from good coal. In fact, proper 
care should be exercised in all purchasing, for the person who 
understands the quality of the thing to be purchased will be more 
likely to get full value for the money paid than the one who doe& 
not. About coal, it should be understood that good hard coal has 
a glossy black color and a bright surface, whereas poor coal con- 
tains slaty pieces. The quality of coal can also be determined from 
the ash that remains after it is burned. Large chunks or great 
quantities of ash indicate a poor quality of coal, and fine, powdery 
ash a good quality. Of course, even if the coal is of the right kind, 
poor results are often brought about by the bad management of a 
fire, whether in a furnace or a stove. Large manufacturing com- 
panies, whose business depends considerably on the proper kind of 
fuel, buy coal by the heat units — that is, according to the quantity 
of heat it will give off — and at some future time this plan may have 
to be followed in the private home, unless some other fuel is pro- 
vided in the meantime. 

Mixed with poor coal are certain unburnable materials that 
melt and stick together as it burns and form what are known as 
clinkers. Clinkers are very troublesome because they often adhere 
to the stove grate or the lining of the firebox. They generally form 
during the burning of an extremely hot fire, but the usual tempera- 
ture of a kitchen fire does not produce clinkers unless the coal is of 
a very poor quality. Mixing oyster shells with coal of this kind 
often helps to prevent their formation. 

53. Coke. — ^Another fuel that is sometimes used for cooking is 
coke. Formerly, coke was a by-product in the manufacture of 
illuminating gas, but now it is manufactured from coal for use as a 
fuel. Because of the nature of its composition, coke produces a 
very hot fire and is therefore favorable for rapid cooking, such as 
broiling. However, it is used more extensively in hotels and institu- 
tions than in kitchens where cooking is done on a small scale. 

wT— r 1—^ 



34 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§1 



54. Value of Gas as Fuel. — ^As a fuel for cooking purposes, 
gas, both artificial and natural, is very effective, and in localities 
where the piping of gas into homes is possible it is used extensively. 
Of the two kinds, artificial gas produces the least heat ; also, it is the 
most expensive, usually costing two or three times as much as nat- 
ural gas. Both are very cheap, however, considering their conve- 
nience as a kitchen fuel. Heat from gas is obtained by merely 
turning it on and igniting it, as with a lighted match. Its consump- 
tion can be stopped at once by closing off the supply, or it can be 
regulated as desired and in this way made to give the exact amount 
of heat required for the method of cookery adopted. Neither smoke 
nor soot is produced in burning gas if the burners of the gas stove 
are adjusted to admit the right amount of air, and no ashes nor 
refuse remain to be disposed of after gas has been burned. Because 
gas is so easily handled, good results can be obtained by those who 
have had very little experience in using it, and with study and 
practice results become uniform and gas proves to be an economical 
fuel. 

55. Measurement of Gas. — Gas is measured by the cubic 
foot, and a definite price is charged for each 1,000 cubic feet. To 
determine the quantity used, it is passed through what is called a 
meter, which measures as the gas burns. It is'important that each 

housewife be able to 
read the amount regis- 
tered by the meter, so 
that she can compare 
her gas bill with the 
meter reading and thus 
determine whether the 
charges are correct. If 
only the usual amount 
of gas has been con- 
sumed and the bill does not seem to be correct or is much larger than 
it has been previously, the matter should be reported to the proper 
authorities, for the meter may be out of order and in need of repair. 

56. Reading a Gas Meter. — To register the quantity of gas 
that is consumed, a gas meter, as is shown in Fig. 1, is provided 




Fig. 1 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 35 

with three large dials, each of which has ten spaces over which the 
hand, or indicator, passes to indicate the amount of gas consumed, 
and with one small dial, around which the hand makes one revolu- 
tion every time 2 cubic feet of gas is consumed. This small dial 
serves to tell whether gas is leaking when the stoves and lights are 
not turned on. Above each large dial is an arrow that points out the 
direction in which to read, the two outside ones reading toward the 
right and the center one toward the left; also, above each dial is 
lettered the quantity of gas that each dial registers, that at the right 
registering 1,000 cubic feet, that in the center 10,000 cubic feet, and 
that at the left 100,000 cubic feet. To read the dials, begin at the 
left, or the 100,000 dial, and read toward the right. In each instance, 
read the number over which the hand has passed last. For instance, 
when, as in Fig. 1, the hand lies between 5 and 6 on the left dial, 
5 is read ; on the center dial, when the hand lies between 5 and 6, 5 is 
read also ; and on the right dial, when the hand lies between 2 and 3, 
the 2, which is really 200, is read 

57. To compute the quantity of gas used, the dials are read 
from left to right and the three readings are added. Then, in order 
to determine the quantity burned since the previous reading, the 
amount registered at that time, which is always stated on the gas 
bill, must be subtracted from the new reading. 

To illustrate the manner in which the cost of gas consumed may 
be determined, assume that gas costs 90 cents per 1,000 cubic feet, 
that the previous reading of the gas meter, say on May 15, was 
52,600 cubic feet, and that on June 15 the meter registered as shown 
in Fig. 1. As was just explained, the left dial of the meter reads 
5, the center dial 5, and the right dial 200. Therefore, put these 
figures down so that they follow one another, as 5-5-200. This 
means then that the reading on June 15 is 55,200 cubic feet. With 
this amount ascertained, subtract from it the previous reading, or 
52,600 cubic feet, which will give 2,600 cubic feet, or the quantity 
of gas burned from May 15 to June 15. Since gas costs 90 cents 
per 1,000 cubic feet, the cost of the amount burned, or 2,600 cubic 
feet, may be estimated by dividing 2,600 cubic feet by 1,000 and multi- 
plying the result by 90; thus 2,600-^1,000 = 2.6, and 2.6X.90 = 2.34 

58. Prepayment Meters. — In many places, gas concerns 
install what are called prepayment meters; that is, meters in which 
the money is deposited before the gas is burned. Such meters 



36 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §1 

register the consumption of the gas in the same way as the meters 
just mentioned, but they contain a receptacle for money. A coin, 
generally a quarter, is dropped into a slot leading to this receptacle, 
and the amount of gas sold for this sum is then permitted to pass 
through as it is needed. When this amount of gas has been burned, 
another coin must be inserted in the meter before more gas will be 
liberated. 



KBROSENB 

59. In communities where gas is not available, kerosene, which 
is produced by the refinement of petroleum, is used extensively as a 
fuel for cooking, especially in hot weather when the use of a coal or 
a wood stove adds materially to the discomfort of the person who 
does the cooking. Kerosene is burned in stoves especially designed 
for its use, and while it is a cheap fuel it is not always the same in 
quality. It contains water at all times, but sometimes the propor- 
tion of water is greater than at others. The greater the amount of 
water, the less fuel will be contained in each gallon of kerosene. 
The quality of kerosene can be determined by checking up the 
length of time the stove will burn on a specified quantity of each 
new purchase of it. 

Another product of the refinement of petroleum is gasoline. How- 
ever, it is not used so extensively for fuel as kerosene, because it is 
more dangerous and more expensive. 



ELECTRICITY 



60. The use of electricity for supplying heat for cooking is very 
popular in some homes, especially those which are properly wired, 
because of its convenience and cleanliness and the fact that the heat 
it produces can be applied direct. The first electrical cooking appa- 
ratus was introduced at the time of the World's Fair in Chicago, 
in 1892, and since that time rapid advancement has been made in 
the production of suitable apparatus for cooking electrically. 
Electricity would undoubtedly be in more general use today if it 
were possible to store it in the same way as artificial gas, but as yet 
no such method has been devised and its cost is therefore greater. 
Electricity is generated in large power plants, and as it is consumed 
in the home for lighting and cooking it passes through a meter, 
which indicates the quantity used in much the same manner as a 




§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 37 

gas meter. It will be well, therefore, to understand the way in 
which an electric meter is read, so that the bills for electricity can 
be checked. 

61. Reading an Electric Meter. — ^An electric meter, which 
is similar in appearance to a gas meter, consists of three or four 
dials, which are placed side by side or in the shape of an arc. In the 
usual type, which is shown in Fig. 2 and which consists of four dials 
placed side by side, each one of the dials contains ten spaces and a 
hand, or indicator, that passes over numbers ranging from to 9 
to show the amount of electricity used. The numbers on the dials 
represent kilowatt-hours, 
a term meaning the en- 
ergy resulting from the 
activity of 1 kilowatt for 
1 hour, or 1 watt, which 
is the practical unit of 
electrical power, for 
1,000 hours. Since ^""-^ 

1,000 watts equal 1 kilowatt, 1,000 watt-hours equal 1 kilowatt- 
hour. It will be observed from the accompanying illustration that 
the dial on the extreme right has the figures reading in a clockwise 
direction, that is, from right to left, the second one in a counter-clock- 
wise direction, or from left to right, the third one in a clockwise 
direction, and the fourth one in a counter-clockwise direction; also, 
that above each dial is indicated in figures the number of kilowatt- 
hours that one complete revolution of the hand of that dial registers. 

To read the meter, begin at the right-hand dial and continue to 
the left until all the dials are read and set the numbers down just as 
they are read ; that is, from right toJeft. In case the indicator does 
not point directly to a number, but is somewhere between two 
numbers, read the number that it is leaving. For example, in 
Fig. 2, the indicator in the right-hand dial points to figure 4 ; there- 
fore, this number should be put down first. In the second dial, the 
hand lies between and 1, and as it is leaving 0, this number should 
be read and placed to the left of the first one read, which gives 04. 
The hand on the third dial points exactly to 6 ; so 6 should be read 
for this dial and placed directly before the numbers read for the first 
and second dials, thus, 604. On the fourth and last dial, the indicator 
is between 4 and S ; therefore 4, which is the number it is leaving. 



38 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §1 

should be read and used as the first figure in the entire reading, 
which is 4,604. 

After the reading of the electric meter has been ascertained, it is 
a simple matter to determine the electricity consumed since the last 
reading and the amount of the bill. For instance, assume that 
a meter registers the number of kilowatt-hours shown in Fig. 2, 
or 4,604, and that at the previous reading it registered 4,559. 
Merely subtract the previous reading from the last one, which will 
give 45, or the number of kilowatt-hours from which the bill for 
electricity is computed. If electricity costs 3 cents a kilowatt-hour, 
which is the price charged in some localities, the bill should come to 
45X.03 or $1.35. 



PRINCIPLE OP STOVES 

62. Before stoves for cooking came into use in the home, food 
was cooked in open fireplaces. Even when wood was the only fuel 
known, a stove for burning it, called the Franklin stove, was 
invented by Benjamin Franklin, but not until coal came into use as 
fuel were iron stoves made. For a long time stoves were used 
mainly for heating purposes, as many housewives preferred to cook 
at the open fireplace. However, this method of cooking has practi- 
cally disappeared and a stove of some kind is in use for cooking in 
every home. 

63. For each fuel in common use there are many specially con- 
structed stoves, each having some advantageous feature; yet all 
stoves constructed for the same fuel are practically the same in 
principle. In order that fuel will burn and produce heat, it must 
have air, because fuel, whether it is wood, coal, or gas, is composed 
largely of carbon and air largely of oxygen, and it is the rapid union 
of these two chemical elements that produces heat. Therefore, in 
order that each stove may work properly, some way in which to fur- 
nish air for the fire in the firebox must be provided. For this rea- 
son, every stove for cooking contains passageways for air and is 
connected with a chimney, which contains a flue, or passage, that 
leads to the outer air. When the air in a stove becomes heated, it 
rises, and as it ascends cold air rushes through the passageways of 
the stove to take its place. It is the flue, however, that permits of 
the necessary draft and carries off unburned gases. At times it is 
necessary to regulate the amount of air that enters, and in order 



§ 1 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 39 

that this may be done each stove is provided with dampers. These 
devices are located in the air passages and they are so designed as 
to close off the air or allow the desired amount to enter. By means 
of these dampers it is possible also to force the heat around the 
stove oven, against the top of the stove, or up the chimney flue. A 
knowledge of the ways in which to manipulate these dampers is 
absolutely necessary if correct results are to be obtained from a 
stove. The flue, however, should receive due consideration. If a 
stove is to give its best service, the flue, in addition to being well 
constructed, should be free from obstructions and kept in good 
condition. Indeed, the stove is often blamed for doing unsatis- 
factory work when the fatilt is really with the flue. 

64. Probably one of the most important things considered in 
the construction of stoves is the economizing of fuel, for ever since 
the days of the fireplace there has been more or less of a tendency to 
save fuel for cooking, and as the various kinds grow scarcer, and 
consequently more expensive, the economical use of fuel becomes 
a necessity. While most stoves for cooking purposes are so con- 
structed as to save fuel, many of them do not, especially if the 
method of caring for them is not understood. Any housewife, how- 
ever, can economize in the use of fuel if she will learn how the stove 
she has must be operated ; and this can be done by following closely 
the directions that come with the stove when it is purchased. Such 
directions are the best to follow, because they have been worked out 
by the manufacturer, who understands the right way in which his 
product should be operated. 

COAL, STOVES AND THEIR OPERATION 

65. General Construction. — In Fig. 3 is illustrated the gen- 
eral construction of the type of coal stove used for cooking. The 
principal parts of such a stove, which is commonly referred to as a 
cook stove, or range, are the firebox a ; the grate b ; the ash pit c, 
which usually contains an ash-pan d ; the oven e ; the dampers /, g, h, 
and i ; the flue opening ; and flue k ; openings in the top and suitable 
lids, not shown, for kettles and pans ; and the air space extending 
from the firebox around three sides of the oven, as shown by the 
arrows. To prevent the stove from wearing out rapidly, the fire- 
box, in which the fuel is burned, is lined with a material, such as 
fireclay, that will withstand great heat. The fire in the firebox is 



40 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§1 



supported by the grate, which is in the form of metal teeth or bars, 
so as to permit air to pass through the fuel from underneath. The 
grate is usually so constructed that when the fire is raked it permits 
burnt coal or ashes to fall into the ash-pan, by means of which they 
can be readily removed from the stove. The oven, which lies 
directly back of the firebox and is really an enclosed chamber 
in which food may be cooked, receives its heat from the hot air that 
passes around it. The dampers are devices that control the flow of 
air in and out of the stove. Those shown at / and g serve to admit 
fresh air into the stove or to keep it out, and those shown at h and i 
serve to keep heated air in the stove or to permit it to pass out 
through the flue. 




66. Building a Coal Fire. — To build a coal fire is a simple 
matter. So that the draft will be right for rapid combustion, it is 

first necessary to close the 
dampers / and h and to open 
the bottom damper g and the 
chimney damper i. With 
these dampers arranged, place 
crushed paper or shavings on 
the grate; then on top of the 
paper or shavings place kin- 
dling, and on top of the kin- 
dling put a small quantity of 
coal. Be careful to place the 
fuel on the grate loosely 
enough to permit currents of 
air to pass through it, because it will not burn readily if it is closely 
packed. Light the fire by inserting a flame from below. When this 
is done, the flame will rise and ignite the kindling, and this, in turn, 
will cause the coal to take fire. When the fire is burning well, close 
the dampers g and i so that the fuel will not burn too rapidly and the 
heat will surround the oven instead of passing up the chimney ; also, 
before too much of the first supply of coal is burned out, add a new 
supply, but be sure that the coal is sufficiently ignited before the new 
supply is added so as not to smother the fire. If only a thin layer is 
added each time, this danger will be removed. Experience has 
proved that the best results are secured if the fire is built only 4 
inches high. When hot coals come near the top of the stove, the 



Fig. 3 



§1 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



41 



lids are likely to warp and crack from the heat and the cooking will 
not be done any more effectively. Another thing to avoid in con- 
nection with a fire is the accumulation of ashes. The ash-pan 
should be kept as nearly empty as possible, for a full ash-pan will 
check the draft and cause the grate in the firebox to burn out. 

67. Adjusting the Dampers. — To get the best results from 
a cook, stove, and at the same time overcome the wasting of fuel, 
the ways in which to adjust the dampers should be fully known. If 
it is desired to heat the oven for baking, close dampers / and i and 
open dampers g and h. With the dampers so arranged, the heated 
air above the fire is forced around the oven and up the flue, as is 
clearly shown by the arrows in Fig. 3. A study of this diagram will 
readily show that the lower left-hand corner of the oven is its 
coolest part, since the heated air does not reach this place directly, 
and that the top center is the hottest part, because the hottest air 
passes directly over this portion of the oven and the heated air in 
the oven rises to it. 

If it is desired to heat the surface of the stove, so that cooking 
may be done on top of it, close dampers /, fe, and i and open damper 
g. With the dampers so ar- 
ranged, the heated air does i 
not pass around the oven, but — 
is confined in the space above 
it and the firebox, as shown 
in Fig. 4. While the damper i 
in the flue is closed iri order 
to confine the heated air as 
much as possible to the space 
under the top of the stove, it 
contains openings that allow 
just enough air to pass up 
the flue to maintain the draft 
necessary for combustion. When the dampers are arranged as 
mentioned, the hottest place on the surface of the stove is between 
the firebox and the stovepipe, and the coolest place is behind the 
damper h. 

68. Banking a Coal Fire. — To economize in the use of fuel, 
as well as to save the labor involved in building a new fire, it is 
advisable to keep a fire burning low from one meal to another and 




Fig. 4 



42 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §1 

from one day to the next. As the nature of hard coal is such that 
it will hold fire for a long time, this can be done by what is called 
banking the fire. To achieve this, after the fire has served to cook 
a meal, shake the ashes out of the grate so that the glowing coals 
are left. Then put fresh coal on this bed of coals, and, with the 
dampers arranged as for building a new fire, allow the coal to bum 
well for a short time. Finally, cover the fire with a layer of fine 
coal and adjust the dampers properly ; that is, close dampers g and h 
and open dampers / and i. If the banking is carefully done the fire 
should last 8 or 10 hours without further attention. Care should be 
taken, however, to use sufficient coal in banking the fire, so that 
when it is to be used again the coal will not be completely burned, 
but enough burning coals will remain to ignite a fresh supply. 
When the fire is to be used again, rake it slightly, put a thin layer of 
coal over the top, and arrange the dampers as for starting a fire. 
As soon as this layer of coal has begun to burn, add more until the 
fire is in good condition. 



GAS STOVES AND THEIR OPERATION 

69. Gas Rang^es. — A gas stove for cooking, or gas range, as it 
is frequently called, consists of an oven, a broiler, and several 
burners over which are plates to hold pans, pots, and kettles in 
which food is to be cooked. As is true of a coal range, a gas range 
also requires a flue to carry off the products of unburned gas. Gas 
stoves, or ranges, are of many makes, but in principle all of them 
are practically the same ; in fact, the chief difference lies in the loca- 
tion or arrangement of the oven, broiler, and burners. In Fig. 5 is 
illustrated a simple type of gas range. The oven a of this stove is 
located above the top of the stove, instead of below it, as in some 
stoves. An oven so located is of advantage in that it saves stoop- 
ing or bending over. The door of this oven contains a glass, which 
makes it possible to observe the food baking inside without open- 
ing the door and thereby losing heat. The broiler b, which may 
also be used as a toaster, is located directly beneath the oven, and 
to the right are the burners c for cooking. The gas for these parts 
is contained in the pipe d, which is connected to a pipe joined to the 
gas main in the street. To get heat for cooking it is simply neces- 
sary to turn on the stop-cocks and light the gas. The four burners 
are controlled by the stop-cocks e, and the oven and the broiler by 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



43 



the stop-cock /. The stove is also equipped with a simmering 
burner for the slow methods of cooking on top of the stove, gas to 
this burner being controlled by the stop-cock g. To catch anything 
that may be spilled in cooking, there is a removable metal or enamel 
sheet h. Such a sheet is a great advantage, as it aids considerably 
in keeping the stove clean. 

70. Some gas stoves are provided with a pilot, which is a tiny 
flame of gas that is controlled by a button on the gas pipe to which 
the stop-cocks are at- 
tached. The pilot is 
kept lighted, and when 
it is desired to light a 
burner, pressing the 
button causes the 
flame to shoot near 
enough to each burn- 
er to ignite the gas. 
However, whether 
the burners are light- 
ed in this way or by 
applying a lighted 
match, they should 
never be lighted until 
heat is required ; like- 
wise, in order to save 
gas, they should be 
turned off as soon as 
the cooking is com- 
pleted. 

To produce the 
best results, the flame 
given off by gas should be blue. A flame that is yellow and a burner 
that makes a noise when lighted, indicate that the gas flame has 
caught in the pipe, and to remedy this the gas must be turned out 
and relighted. When the gas flame coming from a new buiner is 
yellow, it may be taken for granted that not enough air is being 
admitted to make the proper mixture. To permit of the proper mix- 
ture, each gas pipe extending from the stop-cock and terminating in 
the burner is provided with what is called a mixer. This device, as 




u 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§1 




Fig. 6 



shown in Fig. 6, consists of several slots that may be opened or closed 
by turning part a, thus making it a simple matter to admit the right 
amount of air to produce the desired blue flame. 
If burners that have been in use for some time 
give off a yellow flame, it is probable that the 
trouble is caused by a deposit of soot or burned 
material. Such burners should be removed, 
boiled in a solution of washing soda or lye until 
the holes in the top are thoroughly cleaned, and 
then replaced and adjusted. As long as the flame 
remains yellow, the gas is not giving off as much 
heat as it should produce and is liable to smoke cooking utensils 
black. Therefore, to get the best results the burners should be 
thoroughly cleaned every now and then in the manner mentioned. 
Likewise, the pan beneath the burners, which may be removed, 
should be cleaned very frequently, and the entire stove should be 
wiped each time it is used, for the better such a stove is taken care 
of, the better will it con- 
tinue to do its work. 



71. Fireless-Cook- 
ing Gas Stoves. — ^A 

style of gas stove that 
meets with favor in 
many homes is the so- 
called fireless-cooking 
gas stove, one style of 
which is shown in Fig. 
7. Such a stove has the 
combined advantages of 
a fireless cooker, which 
is explained later, and a 
gas stove, for it permits 
of quick cooking with 
direct heat, as well as 
slow cooking with heat that is retained in an insulated chamber, 
that is, one that is sufficiently covered to prevent heat from 
escaping. In construction, this type of stove is similar to any 
other gas stove, except that its oven is insulated and it is pro- 
vided with one or more compartments for fireless cooking, as at a 




ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



45 



and b. Each of these compartments is so arranged that it may be 
moved up and down on an upright rod, near the base of which, rest- 
ing on a solid plate c, is a gas burner d, over which the insulated 
hood of the compartment fits. When it is desired to cook food in 
one of these compartments, the hood is raised, as at b, and the gas 
burner is lighted. The food in the cooker is allowed to cook over 
the lighted burner until sufficient heat has been retained or the proc- 
ess has been carried sufficiently far to permit the cooking to con- 
tinue without fire. Then the insulated hood is lowered until the 
compartment is in the position of the one shown at a. It is not 
necessary to turn off the gas, as this is done automatically when the 
hood is lowered. 



KKROSBNB STOVES AND THSIR OPERATION 

72. As has been mentioned, kerosene is used considerably as a 
fuel in localities where gas cannot be obtained. Kerosene stoves are 
not unlike gas stoves, but, as a rule, instead of having built-in ovens, 
they are provided with portable ovens, which are heated by placing 
them on top of the stove, over the burners. Such stoves are of two 
types, those in which cotton wicks are 
used, as in oil lamps, and those which 
are wickless, the former being gen- 
erally considered more convenient and 
satisfactory than the latter. In Fig. 8 
is shown a three-burner kerosene 
stove of the first type mentioned. Oil 
for the burners, or lamps, a is stored 
in the container b, which may be of 
glass or metal, and it is supplied to 
the reservoir of each burner by the 
pipe c. Each burner is provided v/ith 
a door d, which is opened when it is 
desired to light the wick. The flame 
of each burner is controlled by the 
screw e, which serves to raise or lower the wick, and the heat 
passes up to the opening / in the top of the stove through the cylin- 
drical pipe above the burner. The arrangement of a wickless 
kerosene stove is much the same as the one just described, but it is 
so constructed that the oil, which is also stored in a tank at the side, 
flows into what is called a burner bowl and burns from this bowl up 




Fig. 8 



46 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§1 



through a perforated chimney, the quantity of oil used being reg- 
ulated by a valve attached to each bowl. 

73. The burners of kerosene stoves are lighted by applying a 
match, just as the burners of a gas stove are lighted. In some 
stoves, especially those of the wickless type, the burners are so 
constructed that the flame can rise to only a certain height. This 
is a good feature, as it prevents the flame from gradually creeping 
up and smoking, a common occurrence in an oil stove. The kero- 
sene-stove flame that gives the most heat, consumes the least fuel, 
and produces the least soot and odor is blue in color. A yellow 
flame, which is given off in some stoves, produces more or less soot 
and consequently makes it harder to keep the stove clean. Glass 
containers are better than metal containers, because the water that 
is always present in small quantities in kerosene is apt to rust the 
metal container and cause it to leak. To prevent the accumulation 
of dirt, as well as the disagreeable odor usually present when an oil 
stove is used, the burners should be removed frequently and boiled 
in a solution of washing soda; also, if a wick is used, the charred 

portion should be rubbed 

t im it, but not cut, as cut- 

t g is liable to make it 

re off an uneven flame. 




ISL.ECTRIC STOVES AXD 
ITEXSILS 



74. Electric Stoves. 

Electric stoves for cook- 
ing have been perfected to 
such an extent that they 
are a great convenience, 
and in places where the 
cost of electricity does not 
greatly exceed that of gas 
they are used considerably. 
In appearance, electric stoves are very similar to gas stoves, as 
is shown in Fig. 9, which illustrates an electric stove of the 
usual type. The oven a is located at one side and contains a 
broiler pan b. On top of this stove are openings for cooking, 



Fig. 9 



§1 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



47 




Fig. 10 



into which fit Hds c that have the appearance of ordinary stove 

lids, but are in reality electrical heating units, called hotplates. 

Heat for cooking is supplied by a current of 

electricity that passes through the hotplates, 

as well as through similar devices in the oven, 

the stove being connected to the supply of 

electricity at the connection-box d, which is 

here shown with the cover removed. The 

heat of the different hotplates and the oven is 

controlled by several switches e at the front 

of the stove. Each of these switches provides three degrees of 

heat — high, medium, and low — and just the amount of heat required 

for cooking can be supplied by turning the switch to the right 

point. Below the switches are several fuse plugs / that contain the 

fuses, which are devices used in electrical apparatus to avoid injury 

to it in case the current of electricity becomes too great. 

It is not absolutely necessary to have flue connections for an elec- 
tric stove, as such a stove does not require a draft and gives off no 
products of combustion to be carried away. In fact, one of the 
favorable points about an electric stove is that it produces no dirt 
and causes no inconvenience. When the cooking is done, the 
electricity can be turned off, after which the stove quickly cools. 
When electricity is used for cooking, cooking utensils, methods, and 
recipes can be applied in the same ways as when other means of 
producing heat are employed. 

75. Small Electric Utensils. — In addition to electric stoves, 
there are a number of smaller electrical cooking utensils that can be 
attached to an electric-light socket or a 
wall socket.. Among these are percolators, 
toasters, hotplates, or grills, chafing dishes, 
egg poachers, and similar devices. An idea 
of such utensils for cooking may be formed 
by referring to Fig. 10, which shows an elec- 
tric toaster, and Fig. 11, which shows a hot- 
plate, or grill. The toaster is arranged so that bread to be toasted 
may be placed on each side, as well as on top, of an upright part that 
gives off heat when the current of electricity is turned on. The grill 
is so constructed that a pan for cooking may be placed under and on 
top of the part that gives off heat. 




Fig. U 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 

(PART 1) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Give in its full sense the meaning of the term cookery. 

(2) How may the housewife control the cost of her foods? 

(3) (a) Explain the difference between waste and refuse. (6) To what 
is leakage in the household due? 

(4) What three important matters enter into the problem of purchasing 
food? 

(5) (o) Name the five substances that are found in food. (6) Of what 
value is a knowledge of these food substances? 

(6) (a) What is the function of protein in the body? (6) Mention the 
principal sources of protein, (c) Explain the effect of heat on foods that 
contain protein. 

(7) (a) With what do carbohydrates supply the body? (6) Mention the 
two forms of carbohydrates and also some of the foods in which each may 
be found. 

(8) What is a calorie? 

(9) Give five reasons for cooking food. 

(10) Mention the twelve principal processes employed in the cooking of food. 

(11) Describe one method of cooking with: (a) dry heat; (6) moist 
heat; (c) hot fat. 

(12) (a) At what temperature does water boil? (6) How is hard water 
affected by boiling? (c) Explain the uses of water in cooking. 

(13) (a) What generally controls the kind of stove to be used for cook- 
ing? (6) Explain how it is possible to keep down the cost of cooking in 
using fuel. 

(14) Mention the best way in which to become familiar with the operation 
of a stove. 

(15) (a) Of what value is gas as a fuel? (fc) What kind of gas flame is 
best for cooking? 

(16) Suppose that a gas meter registers 72,500 cubic feet on March 1, and 
that on April 1 the hand of the left dial is between 7 and 8, that of the middle 
dial is between 5 and 6, and that of the right dial is at S. At 90 cents a 1,000 
cubic feet, what is the cost of the gas consumed? 

(17) (a) How is heat produced in a stove? (6) What is the purpose of 
the dampers of a stove ? 

(18) (o) How should the dampers of a coal range be adjusted so as to 
heat the oven for baking? (&) How should they be adjusted for cooking on 
top of the stove? 

(19) (o) What is the purpose of a mixer on a gas stove? ('6) How may 
a gas stove be kept in good condition ? 

(20) How may the burners of a kerosene stove be kept clean? 

§1 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 

(PART 2) 



PREPARATION OF FOOD— (Continued) 



UTENSILS FOR COOKING 



IMPORTANCE OF UTENSILS 

1. While success in cooking, as has been pointed out, depends 
to a considerable extent on the selection of materials and the proper 
cooking methods, as well as on an understanding of the stove and 
fuel employed, the importance of the utensils that are to be used 
must not be overlooked. As is well known, each cooking utensil is 
fitted to its particular use ; in fact, the wrong kind of pan, dish, or 
other utensil will not bring about the same result as the right one. 
This does not mean, however, that the housewife must possess a 
large supply of every kind of utensil, for, really, the expert cook is 
known by the small number of utensils she uses. Of course, the 
proper handling of utensils, as well as the right selection of them, 
will come with experience, but before she starts to cook the 
beginner should endeavor to plan definitely what must be provided. 
She should likiswise remember that the use of an unnecessary 
number of utensils not only will increase the labor involved in pre- 
paring a dish, but will affect considerably the amount of work 
required to clear them away and wash them after the cooking is 
done. 

2. The materials of which cooking utensils are made, as well as 
their shape and size, have also a great bearing on the success with 
which cooking may be done. As no one material is suitable for all 
utensils, they are made of various materials, such as wood, tin, 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHINS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§2 
WI— Cl— 5 



2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 2 

glass, enamel, aluminum, sheet iron, and earthenware. In the pur- 
chase of a utensil, therefore, it is well to have in mind the use to 
which the utensil will be put, and then to select one that is made of 
durable material, that can be easily cleaned, and that will not affect 
the food that is cooked in it. Likewise, the shape of the utensil 
should receive consideration, for much depends on it. To be satis- 
factory, a utensil should be without seams or curved edges, because 
it is difficult to remove particles of food that collect in such places. 
A vessel that is hard to wash should be avoided, and one that will 
tip easily is not desirable, either. 

The size of utensils must be determined by the number of persons 
for whom food is to be cooked, for the amount of food to be pre- 
pared indicates whether a large or a small utensil should be selected. 
On the other hand, the length of time required for foods to 
cook depends to a large extent on the size and shape of the utensil. 
When food is to be cooked a long time, a deep vessel with a com- 
paratively small surface exposed for evaporation should be chosen ; 
but for quick cooking, use should be made of a shallow utensil that 
will allow a great deal of surface to be exposed, as the evaporation 
will be accomplished more rapidly. 

In furnishing a kitchen, it is well to begin with a few essential 
utensils of the best quality that can be obtained, and then, as needed, 
to add other well-selected utensils to the equipment. 



MATERIALS TSED FOR tlTBlVSlIiS 

3. Aluminum.- — Because of the properties of aluminum, this 
metal is used extensively for cooking utensils. It is more costly 
than most of the materials employed for this purpose, but while the 
first cost of aluminum pans and kettles may seem large, the extra 
expense is justified by the durability of the utensils. They last 
much longer than utensils made of many other materials, for when 
aluminum is hammered and rolled it becomes extremely hard. 
Some aluminum utensils are very thin, and since they melt and dent 
very easily they are suitable for only light, careful handling. 
Although heavier aluminum utensils are more expensive than the 
lighter ones on account of the metal required and the manufactur- 
ing process involved, they are harder and more durable. Cast 
aluminum is used for large vessels, such as those required in insti- 
tutions where large quantities of food are cooked and where pots 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 3 

and kettles are subjected to extremely hard wear, but this is the 
most expensive kind, for in order to make the aluminum hard 
enough for casting some harder metal must be mixed with it. One 
of the disadvantages of aluminum is that it is not always easy to 
clean, but this is overbalanced by the fact that foods do not burn so 
readily in aluminum utensils as in other kinds, since the heat is 
evenly distributed by this metal. 

4. Enamel. — Good enamel cooking utensils are desirable for 
some purposes and are only moderately expensive. Utensils made 
of enamel are not so durable as those made of metal, because 
excessive heat or a sharp blow will cause the enamel to chip. 
Enamel utensils come in various colors, and all can be kept clean 
easily, but the gray enamel is considered to be the best for wear. 

5. Iron and Steel. — ^Utensils made of iron and steel are usu- 
ally inexpensive, but some, especially those of iron, are heavy. 
These metals are used principally for such utensils as frying pans, 
or skillets, griddles, waffle irons, and kettles for deep-fat frying. 
Sheet iron makes excellent shallow pans for baking cookies and 
other cakes, very satisfactory bread pans, and the best kind of pans 
for omelet and other frying. 

6. Earthenware. — A certain number of fairly durable earth- 
enware utensils are necessary in a kitchen equipment. " Mixing 
bowls are usually made of earthenware, as are also casseroles, 
which are covered dishes used for the baking of foods that require 
long cooking, and other baking utensils. Meat, fowl, and some 
vegetables, such as dried beans, are delicious when prepared in a 
casserole, as very little flavor or food is lost in such a dish. 

7. Tin. — The cheapest metal from which cooking utensils are 
made is tin, but it is not generally used for utensils in which food is 
to be cooked, because it melts at too low a temperature. Tin is 
used, however, for such small articles as measures, cutters, apple 
corers, sieves, strainers, and other things of this kind, and it is 
especially desirable for them. 

8. Copper. — Before iron was known copper was the principal 
material for cooking utensils. The chief point in favor of copper 
is its durability, but utensils made of it are not practical for use in 
the ordinary kitchen because they are expensive, heavy, and very 
difficult to keep clean. 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 



9. Glass. — Utensils made of heavy glassware are much used 
for cooking. Glass utensils are especially desirable for custards 
and other dishes that the cook likes to watch while cooking or that 
are to be served in the baking dish. Glass cooking utensils possess 
the advantage of retaining the heat well. 

10. Wood. — Certain utensils made of wood are required in a 
cooking outfit, a molding board of hardwood and a smaller wooden 
cutting board being particularly necessary in every kitchen. Bowls 
in which to chop foods, rolling pins, and mixing spoons are usually 
made of hardwood, and when such wood is used for them they are 
entirely satisfactory. 



LABOK-SAVING DEVICES 

11. A labor-saving device is any apparatus that will per- 
mit a certain piece of work to be accomplished with less exertion 
than would be necessary to do the same thing without it. A sink 
and a dustpan are labor-saving devices just as truly as are a bread 
mixer and a vacuum cleaner, but because a sink and a dustpan are 
necessities as well, they are not usually thought of as true labor- 
saving devices. The newer appliances for saving labor are often 
considered to be quite unnecessary, and indeed some of them are. 
It is only when such apparatus will, with less labor involved and 
less time consumed in the process, secure results 
as good as or better than will another device, and 
when the cleaning and care of it do not consume 
so much time and labor as is saved by using it, 
that it may be considered a true labor-saving 
device. Each housewife must decide for herself 
whether the expense of a so-called labor-saving 
device is greater than the value of the time and 
strength she would use without such a device. 

12. Common Labor-saving Devices. 

Every housewife does not have occasion to use 
(b) all the devices that have been invented to save 

labor, but a number of these are in such com- 
mon use, produce such good results, and save so much time and 
effort that they should be found in every kitchen. Among them is 
the rotary egg beater shown in Fig. 1 (a) . This is so made that one 




Fig. 1 



§2 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 




Fig. 2 



revolution of the wheel to which 

the crank is attached does about 

five times as much work as can 

be done with a fork or with an 

egg whip, which is shown in (b). 

Another inexpensive device that 

is a real help is the potato ricer. 

This device, one style of which is shown in Fig. 2, is really a press 

through which any fruit or vegetable can be put to make a puree. 

It is used considerably for mash- 
ing potatoes, as it makes them 
perfectly smooth and saves con- 
siderable time and labor. Still 
another useful device is the meat 
chopper, or grinder, which is 
shown in Fig. 3. Such a device 
clamped to the edge of a table 
takes the place of a chopping 
bowl and knife, and in addition 
to being more sanitary it per- 
mits the work to be done in a 
shorter time and with less effort. 

Besides the devices mentioned, there are many small labor-saving 

devices, such as the apple carer, the berry huller, the mayonnaise 

mixer, etc., the merits of which every 

busy housewife will do well to con- ^ 

sider. 

13. Bread and Cake Mixers. 

Where baking is done for only a small 

number of persons, bread and cake 

mixers are not indispensable, but they 

save much labor where baking is done 

on a large scale. It is comparatively 

easy, for instance, to knead dough for 

three or four loaves of bread, but the 

process becomes rather difficult when 

enough dough for eight to sixteen 

loaves must be handled. For large quantities of bread and cake, 

mixers, when properly used, are labor-saving. In addition, such 




Fig. 3 




Fig. 4 



6 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 



devices are sanitary, and for this reason they are used in many 
homes where the bakings are comparatively small. 

14. The type of bread mixer in common use is shown in Fig. 4. 
It consists of a covered tin pail a that may be fastened to the edge 
of a table by the clamp b. Inside of the pail is a kneading prong c, 
in the shape of a gooseneck, that is revolved by turning the handle d. 
The flour and other materials for the dough are put into the pail, 
and they are mixed and kneaded mechanically by turning the 
handle. 

15. A cake mixer, the usual type of which is shown in Fig. 5, 
is similar in construction to a bread mixer. Instead of a pail, how- 
ever, for the dough ingredients, it has 

'a deep pan a, and instead of one 
kneading prong it has several prongs, 
which are attached to two arms h, as 
shown. These arms are revolved by 
gear-wheels c that fit in a large gear- 
wheel d attached to a shaft e, which 
is turned by means of a handle /. 
The large number of mixing prongs in 
a cake mixer are necessary, because 
cake dough must be thoroughly stirred 
and beaten, whereas in bread making 
the dough must be made to form a 
compact mass. 




Fig. 5 



16. Disli-WasMng Madilnes. 

Although machines for washing 
dishes are to be had, they are most helpful where large numbers 
of people are served and, consequently, where great quantities 
of dishes are to be washed. Such machines are usually large and 
therefore take up more space than the ordinary kitchen can afford. 
Likewise the care and cleaning of them require more labor than the 
washing of dishes for a small family entails. Large quantities of 
hot water are needed to operate mechanical dish washers, and even 
where they are installed, the glassware, silver, and cooking utensils 
must, as a rule, be washed by hand. 

17. Fireless Cooker. — A device that has proved to be really 
labor-saving is the fireless cooker, one type of which is shown in 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



Fig. 6. It consists of an insulated box a lined with metal and 
divided into compartments b, with pans c that fit into them. Hot- 
plates, or stones, as they are sometimes called, are frequently used if 
the article to be cooked requires them. These stones, which are 
shown at d, are supported in the compartments by metal racks e, 
and they are lifted in and out by means of wire handles /. 

To use a fireless cooker properly, the food must be cooked for a 
short time on the stove ; then it must be tightly covered and placed 
in one of the insulated compartments. If hot-plates are to be used 




Fig. 6 

they must be heated in the same manner. The food loses its heat 
so gradually in the fireless cooker that the cooking proceeds slowly 
but effectually. When the previous heating has been sufficient, 
the food will be cooked and still warm when the cooker is opened 
hours later. Some articles of food occasionally need reheating 
during the process. By this method of cooking there is no loss of 
flavor or food value, and the food usually requires no further atten- 
tion after being placed in the cooker. It also permits of economy 
in both fuel and time. 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 



UTENSILS FOR FURNISHING A KITCHEN 

18. As a guide in purchasing- equipment for a kitchen, a list of 
utensils is here presented. This list is divided into utensils that are 
necessary and those that are convenient and only at times necessary. 
In any case, however, the number of utensils and the size must be 
determined by the quantity of food that is to be prepared. 



Baking dish with cover 

Bread box 

Bread knife 

Bread pans 

Can opener 

Cake knife 

Chopping bowl and knife 

or food chopper 
Coffee mill 
Coffee pot 
Colander 
Cookie cutter 
Corer, Apple 
Cutting board 
Dishpan 
Double boiler 
Egg beater 
Flour sifter 



Bread mixer 

Cake coolers 

Cake mixer 

Cake turner 

Casseroles 

Clock 

Coffee percolator 

Containers for spices and 

dry groceries 
Cookie sheets 
Cream whip 



Necessary Equipment 

Forks 

Frying pan, large 

Frying pan, small 

Garbage can 

Grater 

Kettle covers 

Kettles, two or more 

Knife sharpener 

Knives 

Lemon squeezer 

Long-handled fork 

Measuring cup 

Meat board 

Meat knife 

Mixing bowls 

Mixing spoons 

Molding board 

Muffin pan 

Convenient Equipment 

Egg whip 

Fireless cooker 

Frying kettle and basket 

Funnel 

Glass jars for canning 

Griddle 

Ice-cream freezer 

Ice pick 

Jelly molds 

Nest of bowls 

Pan for baking fish 



Paring knife 

Pepper shaker 

Pie pans 

Potato masher 

Rinsing, or draining, pan 

Roasting pan 

Rolling pin 

Salt box 

Saucepans 

Spatula 

Tablespoons 

Teakettle 

Teapot 

Teaspoons 

Toaster 

Wire strainer 

Wooden spoon 



Potato knife 

Potato ricer 

Ramekins 

Quart measure 

Scales 

Scissors 

Set of skewers 

Steamer 

Waffle iron 

Wheel cart 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



GETTING FOODS READY FOR COOKING 



PRBIilMINARY PREPARATION 

19. Before foods that require cooking are cooked or before 
foods that are to be eaten raw are served, they must be properly pre- 
pared, for their palatabiHty and their value as food depend consid- 
erably on the way in which they are made ready for cooking or for 
eating. Of course, the way in which food should be prepared will 
depend on how it is to be served, but in any event all foods, for the 
sake of cleanliness, must first be washed with water or wiped with a 
clean, damp cloth. 

20. The ways in which vegetables and fruits are made ready 
for cooking vary. Sometimes such foods are cooked with the 
skins on, and sometimes certain vegetables, such as new potatoes, 
young carrots and parsnips, vegetable oysters, etc., are made ready 
in an economical way by scraping off their skins with a knife. 
Vegetables are also peeled, and when this is done a very sharp knife 
with a thin blade should be used and as little of the food removed as 
possible. Still another way of removing the skins of such foods 
as tomatoes, nuts, and some fruits is by blanching. In this proc- 
ess, the skins are loosened so that they may be removed easily, 
either by immersing the foods in boiling water or by pouring boiling 
water over them and allowing them to stand in the water for a few 
minutes, but not long enough to soften them. Blanching used in 
this sense should not be confused with the same word when it means 
•"to take color out" and has reference to a process of bleaching. 
Only when the word means "to remove the covering of" can it be 
applied to the peeling of tomatoes, fruits, and nuts. Vegetables 
and fruits may be cooked whole or they may be cut into chunks, or 
pieces, or into slices. 

21. In order to get meats ready for cooking, it is necessary 
to wipe them clean and usually to trim off all unnecessary bone, fat, 
and skin. Meats may be cooked in large pieces or small pieces or 
they may be ground, depending on the cooking process to be used. 
Before cooking poultry and fish, they should be thoroughly cleaned 
and then trimmed and cut to suit the cooking process chosen. If 
desired, the bones may be removed from poultry or fish before 



10 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 

cooking, and sometimes it is advantageous to do so. Cream and raw 
eggs may be whipped or beaten light before they are served or 
cooked, and after such foods as fruits, vegetables, meats, and fish 
have been cooked, they may be sliced, chopped, ground, mashed, or 
cut into dice, or small pieces. 



MIXIIVU OF POOD INGREDIENTS 

22. Processes Involved In Mixing:. — In cookery, the mix- 
ing of ingredients is done for several purposes — to produce a certain 
texture, to give a smoothness or creaminess to a mixture, or to 
impart lightness. Various processes are involved in the mixing of 
ingredients, and the results that are accomplished depend entirely 
on the method that is selected. The most important of these proc- 
esses with brief explanations of what they mean follow. 

Beating is a rapid motion that picks up material from the bot- 
tom and mixes it with that nearer the surface. It is done with a 
spoon, a fork, an egg whip, or, if the mixture is thin, with a rotary 
egg beater. Sometimes beating is done for the purpose of incor- 
porating air and thus making the mixture light. 

Stirring is usually done with a spoon, and is accomplished by 
moving the spoon in circles, around and around, through ingredi- 
ents contained in a pan or a bowl. This is the method that is gener- 
ally applied to the simple mixing of ingredients. 

Folding is a careful process whereby beaten egg or whipped 
cream is added to a mixture without destroying its lightness. It is 
accomplished by placing the egg or cream on top of a mixture in a 
bowl or a pan, and then passing a spoon down through both and 
bringing up a spoonful of the mixture and placing it on top. This 
motion is repeated until the two are well blended, but this result 
should be accomplished with as few strokes as possible. 

Rubbing is done by pressing materials against the side of a 
bowl with the back of a spoon. This is the process that is applied 
when butter and other fats are to be mixed with such dry ingredi- 
ents as sugar and flour. 

Creaming consists in continuing the rubbing process until the 
texture becomes soft and smooth and is of a creamy consistency. 

Cutting-in is a method used to combine butter with flour when 
it is desired to have the butter remain hard or in small pieces. It 
is done by chopping the butter into the flour with a knife. 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 11 

Sifting- is shaking or stirring material through a sifter having a 
fine wire mesh. It is done to remove foreign or coarse material, to 
impart lightness, or to mix dry ingredients together. 

Ricing is a process whereby certain cooked foods, such as fruits, 
vegetables, meats, and fish, may be reduced to the form of a puree. 
This result is accomplished by forcing the cooked material through 
a ricer. 

23. Application of Mixing Processes. — In applying the 
various mixing processes, it is well to bear in mind that good results 
depend considerably on the order of mixing, as well as on the deft- 
ness and thoroughness with which each process is performed. This 
fact is clearly demonstrated in a cake in which the butter and sugar 
have not been actually creamed, for such a cake will not have the 
same texture as one in which the creaming has been done properly. 
It is also shown in angel food or sunshine cake, for the success of 
such a cake depends largely on the skill employed in folding in the 
whites of eggs or in beating the yolks. On the other hand, the 
lightness of pastry and the tenderness of cookies depend on how 
each is rolled out, and the kneading of bread is a process that 
demonstrates that many things can be learned by actually doing 
them. 

As progress is made with these cookery lessons, therefore, the 
application of the mixing processes should not be overlooked. 
Beginners in cookery, owing possibly to the fact that at first they 
cannot handle soft material skilfully, are liable to make the mistake 
of getting the ingredients too stiff. Yet no beginner need feel the 
least bit discouraged, for ability in this direction comes with experi- 
ence ; indeed, just as skill in sewing, embroidering, and other proc- 
esses comes about by practice and persistent effort, so will come 
skill in cooking. 

MEASURING 

24. Uniform results in cookery depend on accurate measure- 
ment. Of course, there are some cooks — and good ones, too — who 
claim that they do not measure, but as a matter of fact they have, 
through long experience, developed a judgment, or "sense," of 
measurement, which amounts to the same thing as if they actually 
did measure. Still, even these cooks cannot be absolutely sure of 
securing as satisfactory results time after time as are likely to 



12 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 




Fig. 7 



follow the employment of a more accurate method. Therefore, to 
secure the best results, every kitchen should be supplied with the 

proper measuring utensils, which 
are scales, a measuring cup, and a 
set of measuring spoons, or a stand- 
ard tablespoon and a standard tea- 
spoon. 

25. Scales. — In Fig. 7 is 
shown the type of scales generally 
included in the kitchen equipment. 
The material to be weighed is placed 
on the platform at the top, and the 
weight of it is indicated on the dial 
by a pointer, or hand. Sometimes 
these scales are provided with a 
scoop in which loose materials may 
be placed in weighing. Such scales 
furnish a correct means not only of measuring materials, but 
of verifying the weights of foods from the market, the butcher 
shop, or the grocery. To use them properly, the housewife 
should learn to balance them exactly, and when she is weighing 
articles she should always allow for the weight of the container 
or receptacle, even if it is only the paper that holds the food. 

26. Measuring Cups. — Weighing the articles called for in 
a recipe is often a less convenient method than measuring; there- 
fore, in the preparation of foods, measuring is more often resorted 
to than weighing. As accuracy in measurement is productive of 
the best results, it is necessary that all measures be as accurate and 
definite as possible. For measuring the ingredients called for in 
recipes, use is generally made of a measuring cup like that shown 
in Fig. 8. Such a cup is designed to hold 2 gills, 
or i pint, and it is marked to indicate thirds and 
quarters, so that it may be used for recipes of all 
kinds. If a liquid is to be measured with such a 
cup, it should be filled to the brim, but if dry 
material is to be measured with it, the material 
should be heaped up in the cup with a spoon and 
then scraped level with a knife, in the manner shown in Fig. 9. 
In case fractions or parts of a cup are to be measured, the cup 




Fig. S 



§2 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



13 



should be placed level and stationary and then filled evenly to the 
mark indicated on the cup itself. 

27. Many times it will be found more convenient to measure 
dry materials with a spoon. This can be done with accuracy if it 
is remembered that 16 tablespoonfuls make 1 cup, or -J pint; 12 
tablespoonfuls, f cup ; 8 tablespoonfuls, 4 cup ; and 4 tablespoonfuls, 
i cup. If no measuring cup like the one just described is at hand, 
one that will hold 16 level tablespoonfuls of dry material may be 
selected from the kitchen supply of dishes. Such a cup, however, 
cannot be used successfully in measuring a half, thirds, or fourths ; 
for such measurements it will be better to use a spoon. 




Fig. 9 

As a rule, it will be found very convenient to have two measuring 
cups of standard size, one for measuring dry ingredients and the 
other for measuring moist or wet ones. If it is impossible to have 
more than one, the dry materials should be measured first in work- 
ing out a i;ecipe, and the fats and liquids afterwards. Whatever 
plan of measuring is followed, however, it should always be remem- 
bered that recipes are written for the definite quantities indicated 
and mean standard, not approximate, cupfuls, tablespoonfuls, and 
teaspoonfuls. 

28. Measuring Spoons. — In addition to a measuring cup or 
two, a set of measuring spoons will be found extremely convenient 
in a kitchen. However, if it is impossible to obtain such a set, a 
teaspoon and a tablespoon of standard size will answer for measuring 



14 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 



purposes. Three level teaspoonfuls are equal to 1 tablespoonful. 
When a spoon is used, it is heaped with the dry material and then 
leveled with a knife, in the manner shown in Fig. 10 (a). If i 
spoonful is desired, it is leveled first, as indicated in (a), and then 
marked through the center with a knife and half of its con- 
tents pushed off, as shown in (b). Fourths and eighths are mea- 
sured in the same way, as is indicated in Fig. 11 (a), but thirds are 
measured across the bowl of the spoon, as in (b). 

29. Precautions to Observe in Measuring. — In measur- 
ing some of the materials used in the preparation of foods, certain 




Fig. 10 

points concerning them should receive attention. For instance, 
all powdered materials, such as flour, must first be sifted, 
as the amount increases upon sifting, it being definitely known that 
a cupful of unsifted flour will measure about 1:^ cupfuls after it is 
sifted. Lumps, such as those which form in salt and sugar, should 
be thoroughly crushed before measuring; if this is not done, accu- 
rate measurements cannot be secured, because lumps of such ingredi- 
ents are more compact than the loose material. Butter and 
other fats should be tightly packed into the measure, and if the fat 
is to be melted in order to carry out a recipe, it should be melted 





§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 15 

before it is measured. Anything measured in a cup should be 
poured into the cup ; that is, the cup should not be filled by dipping 
it into the material nor by drawing it through the material. 

30. Tables of Weights and Measures. — ^As foods are sold 
by weight and by measure, and as recipes always call for certain 
weights and measures, it is 
absolutely necessary that 

every person engaged in ■■ -^K^ ^ ' "% ^ 
the purchase and prepa- 
ration of foods should be — _, , 

(aj Fig. 1 

familiar with the tables of 
weights and measures in common use for such purposes in the 
United States and practically all other English-speaking countries. 
In addition, it will be well to have a knowledge of relative weights 
and measures, so as to be in a position to use these tables to the 
best advantage. 

31. The table used ordinarily for weighing foods is the table of 
avoirdupois weight. Another table of weights, called the table 
of Troy weight, is used by goldsmiths and jewelers for weighing 
precious metals. It should not be confused with avoirdupois 
weight, however, because its pound contains only 12 ounces, 
whereas the avoirdupois pound contains 16 ounces. The table of 
avoirdupois weight, together with the abbreviations of the terms 
used in it, is as follows : 

Avoirdupois Weight 

437i grains (gr.) = 1 ounce oz. 

16 ounces = 1 pound lb. 

100 pounds = 1 hundredweight cwt. 

20 hundredweight 1 = i ton T. 

2,000 pounds J 

Although 2,000 pounds make 1 ton, it is well to note that 2,240 
pounds make 1 long ton (L. T.). The long ton is used by coal deal- 
ers in some localities, but the ton, sometimes called the short ton, is 
in more general use and is the one meant unless long ton is specified. 

32. The table of liquid measure is used for measuring all 
liquids, and is extremely useful to the housewife. This table, 
together with the abbreviations of its terms, is as follows : 



16 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 

Liquid Measure 

4 gills (gi.) =1 pint pt. 

2 pints =1 quart qt. 

4 quarts = 1 gallon gal. 

31i gallons =1 barrel bbl. 

2 barrels-! _1 hogshead hhd. 

63 gallons/ 

33. The table of dry measure is used for measuring dry 
foods, such as potatoes, dried peas and beans, etc. The table of dry 
measure, with its abbreviations, follows : 

Dry Measure 

2 pints (pt.) = 1 quart qt. 

8 quarts = 1 peck pk. 

4 pecks =1 bushel bu. 

34. Tables of relative weiglits and measures are of value 
to the housewife in that they will assist her greatly in coming to an 
understanding of the relation that some of the different weights and 
measures bear to one another. For example, as dry foods are sold 
by the pound in some localities, it will be well for her to know the 
approximate equivalent in pounds of a definite quantity of another 
measure, say a quart or a bushel of a certain food. Likewise, she 
ought to know that when a recipe calls for a cupful it means i pint, 
as has been explained. Every one is familiar with the old saying, 
"A pint's a pound the world around," which, like many old sayings, 
is not strictly true, for while 1 pint is equal to 1 pound of some 
things, it is not of others. The following tables give approximately 
the relative weights and measures of most of the common foods : 

Approximate Measure of 1 Pound of Food 

cuppuls cupfuls 

Beans, dried 2 Oats, rolled 4 

Butter 2 Olive oil 2i 

Coffee, whole 4 Peas, split 2 

Corn meal 3 Raisins 3 

Flour 4 Rice 2 

Milk 2 Sugar, brown 21 

Molasses 14 Sugar, granulated 2 

Meat, chopped, finely packed. ... 2 Sugar, powdered 2i 

Nuts, shelled 3 

Approximate Weight of 1 Tablespoonful of Food 

Ounce Ounce 

Butter i Milk i 

Corn starch i Sugar J 

Flour i 



g 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 17 

Approximate Weight of 1 Cupful of Food 

Ounces Ounces 

Butter 8 Molasses 10 

Corn meal 5 Nuts, shelled 4 

Corn starch 6 Raisins S 

Flour 4 Sugar 8 

Milk 8 

In measuring, you will find the following relative proportions of 
great assistance: 

3 tsp. = l Tb. 
16 Tb. = 1 c. 

35. Abbreviations of Measures. — In order to simplify 
directions and recipes in books relating to cookery, it is customary 
to use the abbreviations of some weights and measures. Those 
which occur most frequently in cook books are the following: 

tsp. for teaspoonful pt. for pint 

Tb. for tablespoonful qt. for quart 

c. for cupful oz. for ounce 

lb. for pound 



ORDER OF WORK 

36. For successful results in cookery, the work to be done 
should be planned beforehand and then carried on with systematic 
care. By following such a plan, a waste of time and material will 
be prevented and good results will be secured, for there will be 
little chance for mistakes to occur. The order of work here out- 
lined will serve to make clear the way in which cooking processes 
can be carried out satisfactorily. 

First, read the quantity and kind of ingredients listed in the 
recipe, and study carefully the method by which they are to be pre- 
pared and combined. In so doing, determine whether the dish is 
too expensive and whether the amounts called for will make a dish 
sufficient in size for the number of persons to be served. If they 
are too large, carefully divide them to make the right quantity ; if 
they are too small, multiply them to make them enough. 

The heat itself, which plays such an important part in cooking, 
should receive attention at the proper time. If the fuel to be used is 
coal or wood and baking is to be done, build the fire long enough 
before it is needed, so that it will be burning evenly and steadily, 

W l—C I'A 



18 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 

Then, while the recipe is being prepared, provided it is to be baked,, 
regulate the heat of the oven. If gas or kerosene is to be used, light 
it after the recipe is read, and regulate it during the measuring and 
mixing of the ingredients. 

Before proceeding to prepare a dish, clear enough working 
space for the utensils that are to be used, as well as for carry- 
ing on the various operations without feeling crowded. Then, 
on the cleared space, place the necessary measuring utensils, such as 
a measuring cup, a knife, a teaspoon, and a tablespoon. Select a 
bowl or a pan for mixing, a spoon for stirring, and, when needed, 
an egg whip or beater for eggs and separate bowls in which to beat 
chem. Choose the utensil in which the mixture is to be cooked, and, 
if necessary, grease it. During the process of preparing the dish, 
measure accurately all the ingredients to be used, and check them 
up with the recipe, so as to be sure that none are missing and that 
feach one is in its proper amount. 

If all these steps are accurately taken, the mixing, which is the 
next step, can be accomplished quickly and without error. With 
all the ingredients properly combined, the mixture is ready for the 
last step, the cooking or the baking. This must be done with the 
utmost care, or an otherwise properly prepared dish may be spoiled. 



TABLE FOR COOKING FOODS 

37. So that the beginner in cookery may form a definite idea 
of the length of time required to cook certain foods, there is pre- 
sented here what is commonly known as a cookery time table. It 
should be remembered that the time required to cook food is influ- 
enced by many factors. For instance, the age of vegetables and 
fruits very largely determines how long they should be cooked; 
tough meats and fowl require longer cooking than tender ones ; and 
the heat of the oven has much to do with the length of time 
required for cooking, especially the process of baking or roasting. 
Therefore, while this time table will prove of great help to begin- 
ners, it can serve only as a guide. To determine whether or noi 
foods have been cooked long enough, it is advisable to apply the 
proper tests, which are given later in discussing the various foods 
rather than to depend solely on the time table. In this table, the 
length of time for cooking is given in minutes (abbreviated min.) 
and hours (abbreviated hr.^i 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 19 

cooksrv ti1he3 tablib 

Meats and Fish 
Broiled 

Bacon 3 to 5 min. Lamb chops 6 to 8 min. 

Chicken 20 to 25 min. Quail or squabs 8 to 10 min. 

Fish 15 to 20 min. Steak, thick 10 to IS min. 

Fish, slices 10 to 15 min. Steak, thin S to 7 min. 

Fish, very small 5 to 10 min. Veal chops 6 to 10 min. 

Boiled 

Beef, corned 3to 4hr. Fish, small lOtolSmin. 

Chicken, 3 lb 1 to li hr. Fowl, 4 to S lb 2to3hr. 

Fish, bluefish, cod, or Ham, 12 to 14 lb 4 to 5 hr. 

bass, 4 to 5 lb 20to30min. Mutton, leg of 2to 3hr. 

Fish, slices, 2 to 3 lb 20 to 25 min. Tongue 3to 4hr. 

Roasted 

Beef, rib or loin, 5 lb.. Chicken, 4 or 5 lb 14 to 2 hr. 

rare 1 hr. 5 rain. Duck, 5 to 6 lb li to 14 hr. 

Beef, rib or loin, 5 lb.. Fish, 3 to 5 lb 45 to 60 min. 

well done 1 hr. 20 min. Fish, sraall 20 to 30 min. 

Beef, rib or loin, 10 lb.. Goose, 10 lb 2 to 24 hr. 

rare 1 hr. 30 min. Lamb, leg of li to li hr. 

Beef, rib or loin, 10 lb.. Mutton, saddle litol4hr. 

well done 2hr. Pork, rib, 5 lb 2to24hr. 

Beef, rump, 10 lb., rare. lhr.30min. Turkey, 10 lb 24 to 3hr. 

Beef, rump, 10 lb., well 

done 2 hr. 

Vegetables 
Boiled 

Asparagus 20 to 30 min. Green corn 8 to 12 min. 

Beans, lima or shell.... 40 to 60 min. Macaroni 30 to 40 min. 

Beans, string 30 to 45 min. Onions 45 to 60 min. 

Beets, old 4 to 6 hr. Peas 25 to 60 min. 

Beets, young 45 to 60 min. Potatoes 30 to 45 min. 

Brussels sprouts IS to 25 rain. Rice 20 to 30 min. 

Cabbage 35 to 60 rain. Spinach 20 to 30 rain. 

Carrots i to 2 hr. Turnips 4 to 14 hr. 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 min. Vegetable oysters i to 14 hr. 

Baked Foods 

Beans 6 to 8 hr. Cake, pound li to 14 hr. 

Biscuits, baking powder. 15 to 25 min. Cake, sponge 45 to 60 rain. 

Biscuits, yeast 10 to 25 min. Cookies 6 to 10 rain. 

Bread, ginger 20 to 30 min. Custard 20 to 45 rain. 

Bread, loaf 40 to 60 min. Muffins, baking powder . 15 to 25 min. 

Cake, corn 20 to 30 min. Pastry 30 to 45 min. 

Cake, fruit. li to 2hr. Potatoes 45 to 60 min. 

Cake, layer 15 to 20 min. Pudding, Indian 2 to 3 hr. 

Cake, loaf 40 to 60 min. Pudding, rice (poor man's) 2to3hr. 



20 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 2 



CARE OF FOOD 



REASONS FOR CARE 

38. Although, as has been explained, the selection and prepara- 
tion of foods require much consideration from the housewife who 
desires to get good results in cookery, there is still one thing to 
which she must give attention if she would keep down the cost of 
living, and that is the care of food. Unless food is properly taken 
care of before it is cooked, as well as after it is cooked — ^that is, the 
left-overs — considerable loss is liable to result through its spoiling 
or decaying. Both uncooked and cooked food may be kept whole- 
some in several ways, but before these are discussed it may be well 
to look into the causes of spoiling. With these causes understood, 
the methods of caring for foods will be better appreciated, and the 
results in buying, storing, and handling foods will be more satis- 
factory. 

39. To come to a knowledge of why foods spoil, it will be well 
to note that nature abounds in micro-organisms, or living things 
so minute as to be invisible to the naked eye. These micro-organ- 
isms are known to science as microbes and germs, and they are com- 
prised of bacteria, yeasts, and molds, a knowledge of which is of the 
utmost importance to the physician and the farmer, as well as 
the housewife. Just in what ways these are beneficial to the 
farmer and the physician is beyond the scope of the subject of 
cookery, but in the household their influence is felt in three ways : 
They are the cause of the decay and spoiling of foods ; they are of 
value in the preparation of certain foods ; and they are the cause of 
contagious diseases. It will thus be seen that while some microbes 
are undesirable, others exert a beneficial action. 

40. It is only within comparatively recent years that the action 
of micro-organisms has been understood. It is now definitely 
known that these minute living things seize every possible chance 
to attack articles of food and produce the changes known as 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 21 

fermentation, putrefaction, souring, and decay. Micro-organisms 
that cause fermentation are necessary in bread making and vinegar 
making, but they are destructive to other foods, as, for example, 
those which are canned or preserved. Organisms that cause putre- 
faction are needed in the making of sauer kraut, salt rising bread, 
and cheese. Molds also help to make cheese, but neither these nor 
putrefactive organisms are desirable for foods other than those 
mentioned. It should be remembered, however, that even those 
foods which require micro-organisms in their making are constantly 
in danger of the attacks of these small living things, for unless 
something is done to retard their growth they will cause food to 
sour or decay and thus become unfit for consumption. 

Some foods, of course, withstand the attacks of micro-organisms 
for longer periods of time than others. For example, most fruits 
that are protected by an unbroken skin will, under the right condi- 
tions, keep for long periods of time, but berries, on account of hav- 
ing less protective covering, spoil much more quickly. Likewise, 
vegetables without skins decay faster than those with skins, because 
they have no protective covering and contain more water, in which, 
as is definitely known, most micro-organisms thrive. 

41. If food is to be kept from decaying, the housewife must 
endeavor to prevent the growth of micro-organisms, and she can 
best accomplish this if she is familiar with the ways in which they 
work. It is for this reason that, whether she possesses a scientific 
knowledge of bacteria or not, an understanding of some practical 
facts concerning why food spoils and how to keep it from decaying 
is imperative. In this part of cookery, as in every other phase, it is 
the reason why things should be done that makes all that relates to 
the cooking of food so interesting. In all parts of the work there 
are scientific facts underlying the processes, and the more the house- 
wife learns about these, the more she can exercise the art of cook- 
ery, which, like all other arts, depends on scientific principles. 



22 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 



METHODS OF CARE 



CtiASSIPICATION 



42. As has been pointed out, it is not the mere presence of 
micro-organisms that causes the spoiHng of food, but their con- 
stant growth. Therefore, to keep milk from souring, meat from 
spoiling, bread from molding, canned fruit from fermenting, and 
so on, it is necessary to know what will prevent the growth of these 
minute organisms. Different foods require different treatment. 
Some foods must be kept very cold, some must be heated or cooked, 
others must be dried, and to others must be added preserva- 
tives. An unwarrantable prejudice has been raised in the minds of 
many persons against the use of preservatives, but this is due to the 
fact that the term is not properly understood. In this use, it means 
anything that helps to preserve or keep safe the food to which it is 
added. Sugar, salt, spices, and vinegar are all preservatives, and 
are added to food as much for the purpose of preserving it as for 
seasoning it. 



CANNING AND DRYING OP FOODS 



43. Among the common methods of caring for foods that are 
to be used at a future time are canning and drying. Canning-, 
which is discussed fully in another Section, consists in preserving 
sterile foods in sealed cans or jars. The aim in canning is to pre- 
vent the growth of micro-organisms, and to do this the process 
known as sterilizing — that is, the destroying of bacteria and other 
micro-organisms by means of heat — is resorted to. Carming 
theories are different now from what they were in former times. 
For example, housewives formerly made heavy, rich preserves of 
available fruits because it was thought that sugar must be used in 
large quantities in order to keep or prevent them from spoiling. 
While it is true that the sugar assisted, science has since proved that 
sterilizing is what must be done, so that now only the sugar desired 
for sweetening need be used. 

44. The other method of keeping food, namely, drying, 
depends for its success on the fact that such micro-organisms as 
bacteria cannot grow unless they have a considerable quantity of 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 23 

moisture or water. Molds grow on cheese, bread, damp cloth or 
paper, or articles that contain only a small amount of moisture, but 
bacteria need from 20 to 30 per cent, of water in food in order to 
grow and multiply. This explains why in high altitudes and dry 
climates foods keep for a long time without artificial means of 
preservation. It also explains why the old-fashioned housekeeper 
dried fruits and why the preservation of certain meats is accom- 
plished by the combined methods of smoking and drying, the creosote 
of the smoke given off from the wood used in this process acting 
as a preservative. All the grains, which are very dry, keep for 
long periods of time, even centuries, if they are protected from the 
moisture of the air. Peas, beans, and lentils, as well as dried bis- 
cuits and crackers, are all examples of how well food will keep when 
little or no moisture is present. 



KEEPING FOODS WITH ICE 

45. Although, as has just been pointed out, moisture is required 
for the growth of some micro-organisms, both moisture and 
warmth are necessary for the growth of most of the organisms 
that cause molding, putrefaction^ and fermentation. It is definitely 
known, also, that in winter or in cold climates food can be kept for 
long periods of time without any apparent change; in fact, the 
lower the temperature the less likely are foods to spoil, although 
freezing renders many of them unfit for use. These facts are what 
led up to the scientific truth that keeping foods dry and at a low 
temperature is an effective and convenient method of preventing 
them from spoiling and to the invention of the refrigerator and other 
devices and methods for the cold storage of foods. 

46. The Refrigerator. — For home use, the refrigerator offers 
the most convenient means of keeping foods in good condition. As 
is well known, it is a device that keeps food at a temperature low 
enough to prevent it temporarily from spoiling, usually about 20° F. 
below room temperature. All refrigerators are constructed in a simi- 
lar manner, having two or more layers of wood between which is 
placed an insulating material, such as cork, asbestos, or mineral wool. 
The food compartments are lined with tile, zinc, or other rust-proof 
material, and the ice compartment is usually lined with rust-proof 
metal, so as to be water-tight and unbreakable. Any refrigerator 
may be made to serve the purpose of preserving food effectively if 



24 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 



it is well constructed, the ice chamber kept as full of ice as possible, 
and the housewife knows how to arrange the foods in the food 
chambers to the best advantage. 

The construction and use of refrigerators are based on the well- 
known scientific fact that air expands and rises when it becomes 
warm. This can be proved by testing the air near the ceiling of a 
room, for no matter how warm it is near the floor it will always be 
warmer above. The same thing occurs in a refrigerator. As air 




Fig. 12 

comes in contact with the ice, it is cooled and falls, and the warm 
air is forced up. Thus the air is kept in constant motion, or cir- 
culation. 

47. Many refrigerators are built with the ice compartment on 
one side, as in the refrigerator illustrated in Fig. 12. In such refrig- 
erators, there is usually a small food compartment directly under 
the ice chamber, and this is the coldest place in the refrigerator. 
Here should be stored the foods that need special care or that 
absorb odors and flavors readily, such as milk, butter, cream, meat, 
etc., because at this place the air, which circulates in the manner 
indicated by the arrow, is the purest. The foods that give off odors 



§2 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



25 



strong enough to taint others should be kept on the upper shelves 
of the refrigerator, through which the current of air passes last 
before being freed from odors by passing over the ice. 

In some refrigerators, the ice chamber, or compartment, extends 
across the entire top, a current of air passing down on each side from 
the ice at the center and back up to the ice near the outside walls. In 
this kind of refrigerator, the foods which give off odors and flavors 
are placed in the bottom compartment, or farthest from the ice, and 




Fig. 13 

those which take up odors and flavors, on the top shelf, or nearest 
the ice. 

48. The more modern type of refrigerator, one of which is 
shown in Fig. 13, eliminates the use of ice and keeps the food cold 
by means of an automatic cooling system. The plan of the refrigera- 
tor is similar to that of the type shown in Fig. 12, the cooling unit 
merely taking the place of the ice chamber. 

Iceless refrigerators operate on the principle that work is con- 
verted into heat in such a way as to extract the heat from the air 



26 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 

within the refrigerator and thus produce dry cold air for preserving 
foods. The cooling is done by the energy obtained either from a 
motor or by a gas flame or electric heating element. The refrigera- 
tion plant consists of three parts: the motor and compressor; the 
cooling unit with the regulator; and the refrigerator cabinet. In 
operation, a refrigerant, such as sulphur dioxide, ammonia, etc., 
enters the compressor in the form of gas, is pumped into copper 
coils, where it is liquefied, and then flows to the cooling element. 
There it is heated to boiling by the warmer air of the refrigerator 
and turned into a gas again, thus sucking back into the system as a 
hot gas the heat within the cabinet. This process is repeated until 
the cabinet reaches the temperature set by the regulator. 

In selecting a mechanical refrigerator, see that the box is well 
built and insulated and the motor and cooling unit of good con- 
struction. 

49. Care of Food in Refrigerator. — -The proper placing 
of foods in a refrigerator is extremely important, but certain pre- 
cautions should be taken with regard to the food itself. Cooked 
foods should never be placed in the refrigerator without first being 
cooled, for the steam given oflf when a dish of hot food comes in 
contact with the cold air makes the refrigerator damp and warms 
the air. All dishes containing food should be wiped dry and care- 
fully covered before they are placed in the refrigerator. As butter 
and milk are likely to become contaminated with odors given oflf by 
other foods, they should be properly protected if there is not a 
separate compartment in which to keep them. Onions, cabbage, and 
other foods with strong odors, when placed in the refrigerator, should 
be kept in tightly closed jars or dishes. Before fresh fruits and 
perishable vegetables — ^that is, vegetables that decay easily — ^are put 
into the refrigerator, they should be carefully looked over and all 
decayed portions removed from them. No food should be placed in 
the ice chamber, because it will cause the ice to melt unnecessarily. 

50. Care of tlie Refrigerator. — It is essential that all parts 
of the refrigerator be kept scrupulously clean and as dry as possible. 
At least once a week, remove the food from all compartments, wash, 
rinse, and wipe dry the inside of the refrigerator and all the racks. 
For a mechanical refrigerator, learn how to oil the mechanism and 
do this carefully and as often as is required. Also, when necessary, 
defrost the coils promptly. 



§2 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



27 



KBEIPING FOODS WITHOUT ICE 

51. While a refrigerator simplifies the preserving of cooked 
foods and those subject to quick decay, there are many communities 
in which it is not possible to procure ice conveniently, thus making 
it necessary to adopt some other means of keeping food. Then, 
too, there are generally quantities of foods, such as winter vege- 
tables, apples, etc., that cannot be stored in a refrigerator, but must 
be taken care of properly. In such cases, the method of storing 
depends to a certain extent on conditions. On many farms there 
are spring houses in 

which foods may be 
stored in order to keep 
them cool during very 
warm weather; but in 
the majority of homes, 
the cellar, on account of 
its being cool, is utilized 
for the storage of large 
quantities of food and 
even for keeping the 
more perishable foods 
when ice cannot be ob- 
tained. 

52. Storing Food 
in Cellars. — In order 
that a cellar may furnish 
a safe place for keeping 
food, it must be well 
built and properly cared 
for. If it is dug in wet 
ground and is not well drained, it will become musty and damp, and 
fruits and vegetables stored in it will be attacked by mold. A small 
part of the cellar should be without a floor, as many winter vege- 
tables seem to keep better when placed on dry ground, but the 
remainder should have a flooring of either well-matched boards or 
cement that can be kept clean and dry. Ventilation must also be 
supplied ; otherwise, odors will be retained that will taint the food 
kept in the cellar. To allow the passage of air and light from the 




Fig. 14 



28 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



§2 



outside and thus secure proper ventilation, the cellar should be pro- 
vided with windows. These will also assist very much in the clean- 
ing and airing of the cellar, 
processes that should never 
be overlooked if good results 
are desired. In addition to 
the cleaning of the cellar, 
constant attention should 
be given to the foods kept 
there. Foods that have 
spoiled or are beginning to 
spoil should be disposed of 
quickly, for decayed food 
that is not removed from the 
cellar will affect the condi- 
tions for keeping other 
foods and may be injurious 
to the health of the family. 

53. All foods likely to 
be contaminated by dust and 
flies in the cellar must 
be carefully covered. A 
screened frame fastened to 
the wall with brackets, like 

the one shown in Fig. 14, is excellent for this purpose, because it 

prevents the attack of vermin and permits of ventilation. If canned 

goods are to be stored, a 

cellar cupboard like that 

shown in Fig. 15 is a very 

good place in which to keep 

them. Separate bins should, 

if possible, be provided for 

fruits, potatoes, and other 

winter vegetables, and, as 

shown in Fig. 16, such bins 

should be so built as to allow 

air to pass through them. Fig. le 

54. Window Boxes. — The woman who lives in an apartment 
where there is no cellar and whc does not wish to keep ice in the 




Fig. 15 




ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 



29 



refrigerator through the winter will find a window box a very good 
device in which to keep food. Such a box is also a convenience for 
the woman who has a cellar, but wishes to save steps. A box of 
this kind is built to fit a kitchen or a pantry window, and is placed 
outside of the window, so that the opening comes toward the room. 
Such an arrangement, which is illustrated in Fig. 17, will make the 




.<>^''-"-S:^ 



Fig. 17 

contents of the box easily accessible when the window is raised. A 
box for this purpose may be made of wood or galvanized iron, and 
it is usually supported by suitable brackets. Its capacity may be 
increased by building a shelf in it half way to the top, and provided 
it is made of wood, it can be more easily cleaned if it is lined with 
table oilcloth. 



STORING OF NON-PERISHABLE FOODS 

55. It may seem unnecessary to give much attention to the 
storing of foods that do not spoil easily, but there are good reasons 
why such foods require careful storage. They should be properly 
cared for to prevent the loss of flavor by exposure to the air, to 
prevent the absorption of moisture, which produces a favorable 
opportunity for the growth of molds, and to prevent the attacks of 
insects and vermin. The best way in which to care for such foods 
is to store them in tightly closed vessels. Earthenware and glass 



30 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 

jars, lard pails, coffee and cocoa cans, all carefully cleaned and hav- 
ing lids to fit, prove to be very satisfactory receptacles for such 
purposes. 

56. Unless coffee, tea, cocoa, spices, and prepared cereals are 
bought in cans or moisture-proof containers, they should be 
emptied from the original packages and placed in jars that can be 
tightly closed, so that they will not deteriorate by being exposed to 
the air or moisture. For convenience and economy, these jars or 
cans should be labeled. Sugar and salt absorb moisture and form 
lumps when exposed to the air, and they, too, should be properly 
kept. A tin receptacle is the best kind for sugar, but for salt an 
earthenware or glass vessel should be used. It is not advisable to 
put these foods or any others into cupboards in paper bags, because 
foods kept in this way make disorderly looking shelves and are 
easily accessible to vermin, which are always attracted to food 
whenever it is not well protected. 

Canned goods bought in tin cans do not need very careful stor- 
age. It is sufficient to keep them in a place dry enough to prevent 
the cans from rusting. Foods canned in glass, however, should be 
kept where they are not exposed to the light, as they will become 
more or less discolored unless they are stored in dark places. 

Flour, meals, and cereals stored in quantities develop mold unless 
they are kept very dry". For the storing of these foods, therefore, 
wooden bins or metal-lined boxes kept in a dry place are the most 
satisfactory. 

STORING OP SEMIPERISHABLE FOODS 

57. Practically all vegetables and fruits with skins may be 
regarded as semiperishable foods, and while they do not spoil so 
easily as some foods, they require a certain amount of care. Pota- 
toes are easily kept from spoiling if they are placed in a cool, dry, 
dark place, such as a cellar, a bin like that shown in Fig. 16 fur- 
nishing a very good means for such storage. It is, of course, 
economical to buy potatoes in large quantities, but if they must be 
kept under conditions that will permit them to sprout, shrivel, rot, 
or freeze, it is better to buy only a small quantity at a time. Sweet 
potatoes may be bought in considerable quantity and kept for some 
time if they are wrapped separately in pieces of paper and packed 
so that they do not touch one another. 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 31' 

Carrots, turnips, beets, and parsnips can be kept through the 
winter in very much the same manner as potatoes. They deterio- 
rate less, however, if they are covered with earth or sand. Some- 
times, especially in country districts, such winter vegetables are 
buried in the ground out of doors, being placed at a depth that 
renders them safe from the attacks of frost. Cabbage will keep 
very well if placed in barrels or boxes, but for long keeping, the 
roots should not be removed. Pumpkin and squash thoroughly 
matured do not spoil readily if they are stored in a dry place. 

Apples and pears may be stored in boxes or barrels, but very 
fine varieties of these fruits should be wrapped separately in paper. 
All fruit should be looked over occasionally, and those which show 
signs of spoiling should be removed. 



MENUS AND RECIPES 

58. As practically every woman knows, a menu, or bill of fare, 
consists of a certain number of dishes given in the order in which 
they are to be served; likewise, she knows that the dishes called 
for in a menu must be prepared according to a recipe, or receipt, 
which is the list of ingredients of a mixture giving the exact pro- 
portions to be used, together with proper directions for compound- 
ing. In all good recipes the items are tabulated in the order in 
which they are needed, so as to save time and produce good results. 
Items tabulated in this manner also serve to minimize the danger 
of omitting some of the ingredients of a recipe, for they can be 
easily checked up when they are given in the proper order. 

59. In preparing recipes, the beginner in cookery usually has 
difficulty in judging the size of a recipe. The experienced house- 
wife will not follow a recipe exactly when she thinks it will produce 
more food than she needs to meet the requirements of her family ; 
instead, she will reduce the quantities to suit her wants. Likewise, 
if a recipe will not provide enough, she will increase the quantities 
accordingly. Just how to judge whether or not a recipe will make 
what is wanted comes only with experience, but the beginner may 
be guided by the fact that it is never wise to prepare more than 
enough of one kind of dish, unless, of course, it can be used to good 
advantage as a left-over. On the other hand, if a recipe is for food 
that can be kept and used for another meal later, it often pays to 



52 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § S 

make uy more, so as to save time, fuel, and labor. In any event, 
it is always advisable to follow explicitly the directions that are 
given, for if the recipe is of the right kind they will be given so 
that success will result from carrying them out in detail. 

60. In order that the beginner in cookery may form a definite 
idea of the manner in which the dishes of a menu, or bill of fare, 
may be prepared so that they will be ready to serve in their proper 
order at meal time, there is here given a simple dinner menu, 
together with the recipes for preparing the dishes called for and 
the order in which they should be prepared. While these recipes are 
not intended to teach methods of cookery, which are taken up 
later, the student is advised to prepare the menu for her own satis- 
faction and so that she will be able to report on the success she has 
had with each dish. 

MBNV 

Pan-Broiled Chops Mashed Potatoes 

Creamed Peas Cabbage Salad 

Orange Fluff with Sauce 

RECIPES 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Buy the necessary number of pork, veal, or lamb chops, and pro- 
ceed to cook them according to the directions previously given for 
pan broiling. Season with salt and pepper just before removing 
the chops from the pan. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Peel the desired number of potatoes, put to cook in a sufficient 
amount of boiling salted water to cover well, and cook until the 
potatoes are tender enough to be easily pierced with a fork. Remove 
from the fire and drain off the water. Mash the potatoes with a 
wooden or a wire potato masher, being careful to reduce all the par- 
ticles to a pulpy mass in order to prevent lumps, or put them through 
a ricer. When sufficiently mashed, season with additional salt, a 
dash of pepper, and a small piece of butter, and add hot milk until 
they are thinned to a mushy consistency, but not too soft to stand up 
well when dropped from a spoon. Then beat the potatoes vigorously 
with a large spoon until they are light and fluffy. 

Creamed Peas 
Boil until they are soft, two cupfuls of fresh peas in 1 quart of 
water to which have been added 1 tablespoonful of salt and 2 of 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 33 

sugar, and then drain ; or, use 1 can of peas, heat them to the boiling 
point in their liquid, and then drain. A part of the water in which 
the fresh peas were cooked or the liquid on the canned peas may be 
used with an equal amount of milk to make a sauce for the peas, or 
all milk may be used. 

Sauce for Peas 

1 c. of milk, or 4 c. 1 Tb. butter 

liquid from peas i tsp. salt 

and I c. milk , 1 Tb. flour 

Melt the butter in a saucepan or a double boiler, work in the 
flour and salt until a smooth paste is formed, and add the liquid that 
has been heated. Stir until thick and smooth. Add to the peas, 
reheat, and serve. 

Cabbage Salad 

i medium-sized head of cabbage i tsp. salt 

1 small red or green sweet pepper Dash of pepper 

1 small onion Salad dressing 

Shred the cabbage finely by cutting across the leaves with a 
sharp knife or a cabbage shredder. Chop the pepper and onion 
into very small pieces and add to the cabbage. Mix well and add 
the salt and pepper. 

Cabbage-Salad Dressing 

f c. vinegar -J tsp. mustard, if desired 

i c. water J tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter 3 Tb. sugar 
1 Tb. flour 

Heat the water and the vinegar; melt the butter in a saucepan, 
add to it the flour, mustard, salt, and sugar, stir until well blended, 
and then pour in the hot liquid. Cook for a few minutes, stirring 
constantly to prevent the formation of lumps. Pour over the 
cabbage while hot; allow it to cool and then serve on plates gar- 
nished with lettuce. 

Orange Fluff 

i c. sugar i c. orange juice 

5 Tb. corn starch 1 Tb. lemon juice 

Pinch of salt 2 egg whites 
1 pt. boiling water 

Mix the corn starch and sugar and salt, stir into the boiling water, 
and cook directly over the fire until the mixture thickens. Con- 
tinue to cook, stirring constantly for 10 minutes, or place in a double 
boiler and cook 4 hour. Beat the egg whites until they are stift. 



34 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 2 

When the corn starch is cooked, remove from the fire and mix 
thoroughly with the fruit juices. Pour over the beaten egg whites 
and stir sHghtly until the eggs and corn starch are mixed. Pour 
into sherbet glasses or molds wet with cold water and set aside 
until ready to serve. 

Sauce for Orange Fluff 

1 Tb. corn starch 2 egg yolks 

f c. boiling water i c. orange juice 

2 Tb. butter 1 Tb. lemon juice 
f c. sugar 

Moisten the corn starch with a little cold water and stir in i cup- 
ful of the boiling water. Cook for 10 or 15 minutes. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar and egg yolks, beat the mixture with a fork, and 
add the remaining i cupful of boiling water. Stir this into the com 
starch and cook until the eggs thicken slightly. Remove from the 
fire and add the orange and lemon juices. Serve cold over the 
orange fluff. 

61. In the preparation of a meal, it is impossible to follow the 
order of service given in a menu, because of the different lengths 
of time required to prepare the different dishes. The order in which 
the menu here given should be prepared will therefore serve to 
show the way in which other meals may be planned or other menus 
carried out. Each recipe for this menu is plarmed to serve six 
persons, but it can be easily changed in case a different number 
are to be served. For instance, if there are only four in the family, 
two-thirds of each ingredient should be used; and if only three, 
just one-half of each. If eight are to be served, one-third will have 
to be added to each of the amounts. As has been pointed out, just 
a little thought will show how other numbers may be provided for. 

62. In preparing the foods called for in this menu, the dessert, 
which is the last thing given, should be prepared first, because 
time must be allowed for it to cool before serving. In fact, it may 
be prepared a half day before it is to be served. So as to allow 
sufficient time to mash the potatoes after they have boiled, they 
should be made ready to put on the stove about f hour before 
the meal is to be served. After the potatoes have been put on to 
boil, the peas, provided fresh ones are to be used, should be put on 
to cook, and then the sauce for them should be made. If canned peas 
are to be used> the sauce should be made after the potatoes have been 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 35 

put on the stove and the peas should be heated and combined with the 
sauce just before broiling the chops. The cabbage salad may then 
be prepared, and put in a cool place until it is to be served. The 
chops should be broiled last, because it is necessary that they be 
served immediately upon being taken from the fire. 



TERMS USED IN COOKERY 

63. It is important that every person who is engaged in the 
preparation of food be thoroughly familiar with the various terms 
that are used in cookery. Many of these are not understood by the 
average person, because they are foreign terms or words that are 
seldom employed in other occupations. However, as they occur 
frequently in recipes, cook books, menus, etc., familiarity with them 
will enable one to follow recipes and to make up menus in a more 
intelligent manner. 

In view of these facts, a table of terms that are made use of in 
cookery is here given, together with definitions of the words and, 
wherever it has been deemed necessary, with as accurate pronunci- 
ations as can be obtained. The terms are given in bold-faced type, 
and for easy reference are arranged alphabetically. It is recom- 
mended that constant use be made of this table, for much of the 
success achieved in cookery depends on a clear understanding of 
the words and expressions that are peculiar to this science. 

<' A la; au; aux (ah lah; o; o). — ^With; dressed in a certain style; 
as, smelts k la tartare, which means smelts with tartare sauce. 

Au gratln (o gra-tang). — ^Literally, dressed with brown crumbs. 
•In actual practice, also flavored with grated cheese. 

All naturel (o nat-ti-rayl). — A term applied to uncooked vege- 
tables, to indicate that they are served in their natural state with- 
out sauce or dressing applied. Potatoes au naturel are served 
cooked, but unpeeled. 

B6cliainel (bay-sham-ayl) . — A sauce made with white stock and 
cream or milk — named from a celebrated cook. 

Biscuit Glace (bis-kii-ee glah-say). — Ice cream served in glaced 
shells, sometimes in paper cases. 

Bisque. — A thick soup usually made from shellfish or game ; also, 
an ice cream to which finely chopped macaroons have been added. 

Boucliges (boosh-ay). — Small patties; literally, a mouthful. 



36 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 2 

Boudln (boo-dang). — ^A delicate side dish prepared with force- 
meat. 

Bouquet of Herbs. — ^A bouquet consisting of a sprig of parsley, 
thyme, and sweet marjoram, a bay leaf, and perhaps a stalk of celery, 
tied firmly together and used as flavoring in a soup or stew. Arranged 
in this way, the herbs are more easily removed when cooked. 

Cafe au Lait (ka-fay o lay). — Coffee with milk. 

Cafe Nolr (ka-fay nooar). — Black coffee. 

Canapfis (kan-ap-ay). — Small slices of bread toasted or sautM 
in butter and spread with a savory paste of meats, fish, or vegetables. 
They are served either hot or cold as an appetizer or as a first course 
for lunch or dinner. 

Canard (kan-ar). — Duck. 

Capers. ^Small pickled buds of a European shrub, used in 
sauces and in seasoning. 

Capon. — ^A male fowl castrated for the purpose of improving the 
quality of the flesh. 

Caramel. — A sirup of browned sugar. 

Casserole. — ^A covered earthenware dish in which foods are 
cooked. 

Champignons (shang-pe-nyong) . — ^The French name for mush- 
rooms. 

Chartreuse (shar-truhz). — ^A preparation of game, meat, fish, 
etc., molded in jelly and surrounded by vegetables. The name was 
given to the dish by the monks of the monastery of Chartreuse. 

Chiffonade (shif-fong-ad). — Salad herbs finely shredded and then 
sauted or used in salads. 

Chillies. — Small red peppers used in seasoning. 

Chives. — ^An herb allied to the onion family. 

Chutney. — ^An East Indian sweet pickle. 

Citron. — The rind of a fruit of the lemon species preserved in 
sugar. 

CoUops. — Meat cut in small pieces. 

Compote. — ^Fruit stewed in sirup. 

Coquilles (ko-ke-joih) . — Scallop shells in which fish or oysters 
are sometimes served. 

Creole, a la (kray-ol, ah lah). — ^With tomatoes. 

Croustade (kroos-tad). — A thick piece of bread that has been 
hollowed out and then toasted or fried crisp. The depression is 
filled with food. 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 37 

Croutons (kroo-tong). — Bread diced and fried or toasted to serve 
with or in soup. 

Curry. — ^An East Indian preparation made of hot seeds, spices, 
and dried herbs. 

Deml-Tasse (duh-mee tass). — Literally, a half cup. As com- 
monly used, it refers to a small cup in which after-dinner coffee is 
served. 

Deviled. — Highly seasoned. 

Dill. — ^A plant used for flavoring pickles. 

En coquille (ang ko-ke-yuh). — Served in shells. 

Entrees (ang-tray). — Small made dishes served with lunch or 
dinner. They are sometimes served as a coiirse between the main 
courses of a meal. 

Escarole (ays-kar-ol). — ^A broad-leaved kind of endive. 

Farce or Forcemeat. — ^A mixture of meat, bread, etc., used as 
stuffing. 

Fillets (fe-lay). — ^Long, thin pieces of meat or fish generally rolled 
and tied. 

Fillet Mignons (fe-lay me-nyong). — Small slices from fillet of 
beef, served with steak. 

Fondant. — Sugar boiled with water and stirred to a heavy paste. 
It is used for the icing of cake or the making of French candies. 

Fondue. — ^A dish made usually with melted or grated cheese. 
There are several varieties of this preparation. 

Frappe (f rap-pay). — Semifrozen. 

Fromage (fro-magh).^ — Cheese. 

Glace (glah-say). — Covered with icing; literally, a shining sur- 
face. 

Glaze. — ^The juices of meat cooked down to a concentration and 
used as a foundation for soups and gravies. 

Goulasli (gool-ash). — ^A Hungarian beef stew, highly seasoned. 

Gumbo. — ^A dish of food made of young capsules of okra, seasoned 
with salt and pepper, stewed and then served with melted butter. 

Haricot (har-e-ko). — ^A small bean; a bit; also, a stew in which 
the meat and vegetables are finely divided. 

Homard (ho-mar). — ^Lobster. 

Hors-d'oeuvres (or-d'uhvr') . — Relishes. 

Italiene, h la (e-tal-yang, ah lah). — In Italian style. 

Jardiniere (zhar-de-nyajnr) . — ^A mixed preparation of vegetables 
stewed in their own sauce; also, a garnish of various vegetables. 



88 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY § 2 

Julienne (zhu-lyayn). — ^A clear soup with shredded vegetables. 

Junket. — Milk jellied by means of rennet. 

Kippered. — Dried or smoked. 

Larding. — ^The insertion of strips of fat pork Into lean meat. 
The fat is inserted before cooking. 

Lardon. — ^A piece of salt pork or bacon used in larding. 

liCgunaes.— The vegetables belonging to the bean family; namely, 
beans, peas, and lentils. 

Lentils. — ^A variety of the class of vegetables called legtmies. 

Macedolne (mah-say-dooan) . — A mixture of green vegetables. 

Marinade (mar-e-nad). — ^A pickle used for seasoning meat or fish 
before cooking. 

Marinate. — ^To pickle in vinegar or French dressing, as meat or 
fish is seasoned. 

Marrons (ma-rong) . — Chestnuts. 

Menu. — ^A biU of fare. 

Meringue (muh-rang). — ^A kind of icing made of white of egg 
and sugar well beaten. 

Mousse (moos). — Ice cream made with whipped cream and beaten 
egg and frozen without turning. 

Nougat (noo-gah). — ^A mixture of almonds and sugar. 

Paprika. — Hungarian sweet pepper ground fine and used as a 
seasoning. It is less stinging than red or Cayeime pepper. 

Pate (pa-tay). — ^A little pie; a pastry or patty. 

Plmlento. — Sweet red peppers used as a vegetable, a salad, or a 
relish. 

Pistachio (pis-ta-shioh). — ^A pale greenish nut resembling an 
almond. 

Potage (pot-azh). — Soup. 

Puree (pu-ray). — ^A thick soup containing cooked vegetables that 
have been rubbed through a sieve. 

Ragolit (ra-goo). — ^A stew made of meat or meat and vegetables 
and served with a sauce. 

Ramekin. — ^A preparation of cheese and pufE paste or toast, 
which is baked or browned. This word is sometimes used to desig- 
nate the dish in which such a mixture is cooked. 

Rechauffg (ray-sho-f ay) . — A warmed-over dish. 

Rissoles. — Small shapes of puff paste filled with some mixture 
and fried or baked. It also refers to balls of minced meat, egged, 
crumbed, and fried until crisp. 



§ 2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 39 

Roux (roo). — ^Thickening made with butter and flour. 

Salmi (sal-mee). — ^A stew or hash of game. 

Salplcon (sal-pee-kong). — Minced poultry, ham, or other meats 
mixed with a thick sauce. 

Sauce Plquante (sos-pe-kangt). — ^An acid sauce. 

Sliallot. — ^A variety of onion. 

Sorbet (sor-bay). — A sherbet, frozen punch, or water ice; the 
same as sherbet. 

Soufflg (soo-flay). — ^Literally, puffed up. As generally under- 
stood, it is a spongy mixture made light with eggs and baked, the 
foundation of which may be meat, fish, cheese, vegetables, or fruit. 

Soy. — ^A Japanese sauce prepared from the seed of the soy bean. 
It has an agreeable flavor and a clear brown color and is used to color 
soups and sauces. 

Stock. — ^The foundation for soup made by cooking meat, bones, 
and vegetables. 

Sultanas. — ^White or yellow seedless grapes, grown in Corinth. 

Tarragon (tar-ra-gonk). — An herb used in seasoning certain 
dressing and sauces; it is also employed in flavoring tarragon vinegar. 

Tartare Sauce (tar-tar sos). — A mayonnaise dressing to which 
have been added chopped pickle, capers, and parsley in order to 
make a tart sauce for fish. 

Timbale. — ^A pie raised in a mold; also, a shell filled with force- 
meat or ragoftt. 

Truffles. — ^A species of fungi growing in clusters some inches 
below the soil, and having an agreeable perfume, which is easily 
scented by pigs, who are fond of them, and by dogs trained to find 
them. They are found abundantly in France, but are not subject 
to cultivation. They are used chiefly for seasoning and garnishing. 

Vanilla. — The bean of the tropical orchid or the extract obtained 
from this fruit. Used in flavoring desserts, etc. 

Vinaigrette Sauce (ve-nay-grayt sos). — ^A sauce made with oil 
and vinegar, to which are added finely minced chives, peppers, or 
other highly flavored green vegetables and spices. 

Vol au Vent (vol o vang). — A crust of light puff paste. Also, 
a large pit^ or form of pastry filled with a savory preparation of 
oysters, fish, or meat and a cream sauce. 

Zwieback (tsouee-bak). — Bread toasted twice. 



ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY 

(PART 2) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) What points must be kept in mind in the selection of cooking utensils? 

(2) Mention three materials used for cooking utensils and explain their 
advantages. 

(3) (a) What is a labor-saving device? (&) Describe one of the labor- 
saving devices mentioned in the text and tell why it saves labor. 

(4) What kind of utensil should be used for: (a) the rapid boiling of 
spaghetti; (&) the slow cooking of cereals? 

(5) Tell how the following are prepared for cooking: (a) vegetables; 
(6) meats; (c) fish. 

(6) Describe: (o) sifting; (6) stirring; (c) beating; (d) creaming; 
(e) folding. 

(7) Why is it necessary to measure foods accurately in cooking? 

(8) Describe the measuring of: (o) cupful of flour; (6) J teaspoonful 
of butter ; (c) 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

(9) (o) Why should a systematic plan be outlined before beginning to 
carry out a recipe? (6) Give briefly the order of work that should be followed. 

(10) What factors influence the length of time required to cook foods? 

(11) Tell why foods spoil. 

(12) (o) Mention the usual methods by which food is kept from spoiling. 
(b) What is meant by the term preservative? 

(13) (o) What is the aim in canning foods? (6) On what principle does 
success in drying foods depend? 

(14) Explain the construction of a refrigerator and the principle on which 
it is based. 

(15) Describe the placing of the following articles in the refrigerator and 
tell which should be covered and why: (o) milk; (6) butter; (c) cooked fish; 
(d) cooked tomatoes ; (e) melons ; (/) cheese. 

(16) Explain how a refrigerator should be cared for. 

§2 



2 ESSENTIALS OF COOKERY §2 

(17) Name the ways in which foods may be kept from spoiling without ice. 

(18) How should a cellar in which foods is to be stored be built and 
cared for? 

(19) (o) Why is it necessary to store non-perishable foods? (b) Tell the 
best ways in which to preserve such foods. 

(20) (o) What is a menu? (6) Explain the meaning of the term recipe, 
(c) In what order should the recipes of a menu be prepared? 



REPORT OJT MENU 

After trying out the menu in the manner explained in the text, send with your 
answers to the Examination Questions a report of your success. In making out 
your report, simply write the name of the food and describe its condition by 
means of the terms specified in the following list. Thus, if the chops were 
tender and well done, write, "Pan-broiled chops, tender, well done" ; if the pota- 
toes were sufficiently cooked and creamy, write "Mashed potatoes, sufficiently 
cooked, creamy" ; and so on. 

Pan-Broiled Chops: tough? tender? underdone? overdone? 

Mashed Potatoes: sufficiently cooked? creamy? lumpy? too soft? 

Creamed Peas: tender? tough? properly seasoned? improperly seasoned? 

Sauce for Peas: smooth? lumpy? thin? of correct thickness? too thick? 

Cabbage Salad: properly seasoned? improperly seasoned? crisp? 

Orange Fluff: stiff enough? too soft? flavor agreeable? flavor disagreeable? 

Sauce for Orange Fluff : smooth ? lumpy ? 



CEREALS 



PRODUCTION, COMPOSITION, AND SELECTION 



PRODUCTION OF CEREALS 

1. Origin of Cereals. — Cereals, which is the term applied to 
the edible seeds of certain grains, originated with the civilization of 
man. When man lived in a savage state, he wandered about from 
place to place and depended for his food on hunting and fishing ; but 
as he ceased his roaming and began to settle in regions that he found 
attractive, it was not long before he became aware of the possibilities 
of the ground about him and realized the advantage of tilling the soil 
as a means of procuring food. Indeed, the cultivation of the soil for 
the production of food may be considered as one of the first steps 
in his civilization. Among the foods he cultivated were grains, and 
from the earliest times to the present day they have been the main 
crop and have formed the chief food of people wherever it is possible 
to produce them. 

The grains belong to the family of grasses, and through cultiva- 
tion their seeds, which store the nourishment for the growth of new 
plants, have been made to store a sufficient amount of nourishment 
to permit man to collect and use it as food. The name cereals was 
derived from the goddess Ceres, whom the Romans believed to be 
the protector of their crops and harvests. Numerous grains are 
produced, but only eight of these cereals are used extensively as 
food, namely, wheat, corn, oats, rice, barley, rye, buckwheat, and 
millet. 

2. Abundance of Production. — ^With the exception of the 
desert lands and the Arctic regions, cereals of some kind are grown 
over the entire world. Some varieties thrive in the hot countries, 
others flourish in the temperate regions, and still others mature and 

COPYRiaHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLJ-HINO COMPANY. ALL RIOHTS RESERVED 

§3 



2 CEREALS § 3 

ripen in the short warm season of the colder northern climates. In 
fact, there is practically no kind of soil that will not produce a crop 
of some variety of grain. Since grains are so easily grown and are 
so plentiful, cereals and foods made from them furnish a large part 
of the world's food supply. Indeed, about one-fourth of all the food 
eaten by the inhabitants of the world, when it is considered as a 
whole, is made up of cereals. 

3. Economic "Value of Cereals. — The abundance of the 
world's grain supply makes the cost so moderate that many of the 
poorer classes of people in various countries, especially those in 
the Far East, live almost entirely on cereals. Still there is another 
factor that controls the low cost of cereals and grains and keeps 
them within the means of all classes of people, and that is their 
excellent keeping quality. They require very little care and will keep 
for an indefinite period of time. Because of their unperishable 
nature, they may be stored in large quantities and distributed to con- 
sumers as they are needed and at a price that is fairly uniform. 

Since the cost of cereals is moderate, they should form a large 
proportion of the diet of the entire family, especially if the family's 
income will allow only a limited sum to be spent for food. Some 
cereals, of course, are much cheaper than others, and in purchasing 
this kind of food the housewife should be governed accordingly. 
Those which require an elaborate manufacturing process in their 
preparation for the market are the most expensive, but they have an 
advantage in that they require practically no preparation before 
serving. For the varieties that must be cooked, the cost of prepar- 
ing the dish, especially if the price of fuel is high, must be taken into 
consideration, for unless some thought is given to the economical 
use of the fuel, as well as to the method of cooking employed, the 
cost of the prepared dish may be greatly increased. However, in 
the preparation of cereals, very little skill or energy is required and a 
general knowledge of the best methods for one of them can, as a rule, 
be applied to all. 

4. Cereal Products. — Besides the cereals already mentioned, a 
number of products of cereals are extensively used in cookery, chief 
among them being flour, corn starch, and other starches. Although 
every housewife should possess knowledge of the uses of each of 
these, instruction in them is not given until later. This Section 
includes particularly the study of grains — whole, cracked, flaked, and 



§ 3 CEREALS 3 

those made into grits or meal — and the use and the serving of them, 
as well as ready-to-eat cereals, which are commonly referred to as 
breakfast foods. The only additional foods to which attention is 
given at this time are macaroni, spaghetti, and foods of a similar 
nature, for as these are made from wheat they are truly cereal prod- 
ucts. In their preparation for the table, the rules that govern the 
other cereal foods apply also in a large measure to them. 



COMPOSITION OF CEREALS 

5. The composition of all cereals is similar, yet each one has its 
distinguishing feature. While all the five food substances — water, 
mineral matter, protein, fat, and carbohydrate — are to be found in 
cereals, they occur in different quantities in the various kinds. Some 
contain large quantities of protein and others practically none, and 
while certain ones have considerable fat others possess comparatively 
small quantities. A characteristic of all cereals, however, is that they 
contain a large amount of carbohydrate and a small amount of water. 
It is well to remember, though, that while the food substances of 
cereals are found in sufficient quantities to sustain life, they will not 
permit a person to live for long periods of time exclusively on this 
form of food. Likewise, it will be well to observe that the foods 
made from a certain grain will be quite similar in composition to the 
grain itself ; that is, any change in the composition of the foods must 
be brought about by the addition of other substances. 

6. All grains are similar in general structure, too. The largest 
proportion of carbohydrate lies in the center, this substance growing 
less toward the outside of the grain. The protein lies near the out- 
side, and grows less toward the center. Fat is found in small 
amounts scattered through the entire grain, but most of it is found 
in the germ, which is a tiny portion of the grain from which the 
new plant sprouts. The mineral matter of cereals is found chiefly 
just inside the bran, or outer covering, so that when this covering 
is removed, as in the process of preparation for food, a certain 
amount of mineral matter is generally lost. 

7. Protein in Cereals. — The cereals are essentially a carbo- 
hydrate food, but some also yield a large proportion of protein. In 
this respect they differ from the animal foods that produce the prin- 
cipal supply of protein for the diet, for these, with the exception of 
milk, do not yield carbohydrates. The grain that contains the most 



4 CEREALS § 3 

protein is wheat, and in the form in which protein occurs in this 
cereal it is called gluten, a substance that is responsible for the hard- 
ness of wheat. The gluten, when the wheat is mixed with water or 
some other liquid, becomes gummy and elastic, a fact that accounts 
for the rubbery consistency of bread dough. Cereals that contain 
no gluten do not make bread successfully. Next to wheat, rye con- 
tains protein in the greatest amount, and rice contains the least. 
Although protein is the most expensive of the food substances, the 
kind of protein found in cereals is one of the cheaper varieties. 

8. Fat in Cereals. — The fat of cereals helps to contribute to 
their heat- and energy-producing qualities, and, besides, it is one of 
the cheaper sources of this food substance. Of the eight grains, or 
cereals, used as food, oats and corn contain the most fat, or heat- 
producing material. The oil of corn, because of its lack of flavor, is 
frequently used in the manufacture of salad oil, cooking oil, and 
pastry fat. The fat that occurs in cereals becomes rancid if they are 
not carefully stored. In the making of white flour, the germ of the 
wheat is removed, and since most of the fat is taken out with the 
germ, white flour keeps much better than graham flour, from which 
the germ is not abstracted in the milling process. 

9. Carbohydrate in Cereals. — The food substance found in 
the greatest proportion in cereals is carbohydrate in the form of 
starch. Cereals contain many times more starch than any of the 
other food substances, rice, which is fully three-fourths starch, con- 
taining the most, and oats, which are less than one-half starch, the 
least. Starch is distributed throughout the grain in tiny granules 
visible only under the microscope, each being surrounded by a cover- 
ing of material that is almost indigestible. In the various grains, 
these tiny granules differ from one another in appearance, but not 
to any great extent in general structure, nutritive value, or digesti- 
bility, provided they are cooked thoroughly. The large amount of 
carbohydrate, or starch, in cereals explains why they are not hard 
to digest, for, as is well known, starch is more easily digested than 
either protein or fat. This and the fact that some grains contain 
also a large amount of fat account for the high energy-producing 
quality of cereals. While it is safe to say that cereals are chiefly 
valuable for their starch, the tissue-building material in some grains, 
although in small proportion, is in sufficient quantity to place them 
with the protein foods. 



§ 3 CEREALS 5 

10. Mineral Matter in Cereals. — Cereals contain seven or 
eight of the minerals required in the diet. Such a variety of minerals 
is sure to be valuable to the human body, as it is about one-half of 
the whole number required by the body for its maintenance. Since, 
as has already been explained, much of the mineral matter lies 
directly under the coarse outside covering, some of it is lost when 
this covering is removed. For this reason, the grains that remain 
whole and the cereal products that contain the entire grain are much 
more valuable from the standpoint of minerals than those in which 
the bran covering is not retained. If a sufficient percentage of 
minerals is secured in the diet from vegetables, fruits, and milk, it 
is perhaps unnecessary to include whole cereals ; but if the diet is at 
all limited, it is advisable to select those cereals which retain the 
original composition of the grain. 

11. Water in Cereals. — Cereals contain very little water in 
their composition. This absence of water is a distinct advantage, for 
it makes their nutritive value proportionately high and improves their 
keeping quality. Just as the strength of a beverage is lowered by 
the addition of water, so the nutritive value of foods decreases when 
they contain a large amount of water. On the other hand, the keep- 
ing quality of cereals could scarcely be improved, since the germs 
that cause foods to spoil grow only in the presence of water. This 
low proportion of water also permits them to be stored compactly, 
whereas if water occurred in large amounts it would add materially 
to their bulk. 

12. Cellulose in Cereals. — In addition to the five food sub- 
stances that are found in all cereals, there is always present another 
material known as cellulose, which, as is pointed out elsewhere, is an 
indigestible material that occurs on the outside of all grains, as the 
bran covering, and covers the starch granules throughout the inside 
of the grain. In fact, it forms a sort of skeleton upon which the 
grains are built. As long as the cellulose remains unbroken, it pre- 
vents the grain from being digested to any extent. However, it 
forms a valuable protective covering for the grain and it has a cer- 
tain value, as bulk, in the diet, a fact that is ignored by some persons 
and overrated by others. It is well to include at least some cellulose 
in cereal foods when they are taken in the diet, because its presence 
tends to make food less concentrated. 



CEREALS 



§3 



13. Table Showing Composition of Cereals. — Not all 

grains, or cereals, contain the same amount of food substances and 
cellulose ; that is, while one may be high in protein it may be lacking 
in some other food substance. The relation that the various grains 
bear to one another with regard to the food substances and cellulose 
is clearly set forth in Table I. In this table, under the various food 
substances and cellulose, the grains, with the exception of millet, are 

TABLE I 
COMPOSITION OF ce:real.s 



Protein 


Fat 


Carbohydrate 


Cellulose 


Mineral Matter, 
or Ash 


Wheat 


Oats 


Rice 


Oats 


Oats 


Rye 


Corn 


Rye 


Buckwheat 


Barley 


Oats 


Barley 


Corn 


Barley 


Buckwheat 


Barley 


Buckwheat 


Wheat 


Wheat 


Rye 


Corn 


Rice 


Barley 


Rye 


Wheat 


Buckwheat 


Wheat 


Buckwheat 


Corn 


Corn 


Rice 


Rye 


Oats 


Rice 


Rice 



mentioned in the order of their value, ranging from the highest down 
to the lowest in each of the food substances and cellulose. Thus, as 
will be seen, wheat is highest in protein and rice is lowest, oats are 
highest in fat and rye is lowest, and so on. Also, as will be observed, 
while wheat is highest in protein, it is, as compared with the other 
cereals, sixth in fat, fourth in carbohydrate, fourth in cellulose, and 
fifth in mineral matter. In this way may be compared all the other 
cereals to see in just what way they are of value as a food. 



CEREALS AS A POOD 



tJSES OP CERBAIiS 

14. Cereals and cereal products play a very important part in the 
food problem, for the prosperity of a country depends on its grain 
crops and the people of all classes are dependent on them for food. 
This is evident when it is known that they form a greater proportion 
of the food consumed than any other single food material. In their 



§ 3 CEREALS 7 

widespread consumption, they have many and varied uses. In truth, 
a meal is seldom served without some cereal food, for if no other 
is used, bread of some description is almost always included. Besides 
bread, a cooked or a dry cereal is usually served for breakfast, and 
for some persons this constitutes the main breakfast dish, providing 
a nourishing and easily digested food when served with milk or 
cream. This food is especially desirable for children, and for this 
reason is always among the first solid foods fed to them. 

15. While to most persons the word cereal suggests the idea of a 
breakfast food, because cereals are used most often for that purpose, 
they find their place in other meals than breakfast. Although they 
are used less often on the dinner table than elsewhere, they fre- 
quently have an important place there, for a number of them are 
commonly used as dinner dishes and others might be used more 
frequently, and to advantage, too. In this connection, they are used 
in soups, and in certain forms, usually the whole or slightly crushed 
grain, they take the place of a vegetable. Some of them, particularly 
rice, are often used with meat or cheese in making an entree or in 
combination with eggs, milk, fruit, or various flavorings as a dessert 
to be served with a heavy or a light meal. Cold cooked cereal is 
often sliced and sauted and then served with meat or some other 
heavy protein dish. Cereals are also used for lunch or supper, per- 
haps more often than for dinner, and because of their easy digestion 
they are to be recommended for the evening meal for all members of 
the family, but especially for children. When used in this way, they 
may be served with cream, as for breakfast, or prepared in any other 
suitable way. Whenever cereals are served, whether alone or in 
combination with other foods, the result is an economical dish and 
usually an easily digested one, unless, of course, the food with 
which they are combined is expensive or indigestible. But, to what- 
ever use cereals are put, unless they are thoroughly cooked they are 
not easily digested and they lose much of their value. In fact, the 
ready-to-eat cereals, which have been thoroughly cooked, are prefer- 
able to those which are poorly cooked in the home. 



SELECTION AND CARB OF CKREiAIiS 

16. Preparation of Grains for the Market. — So that the 
housewife may go about the selection of cereals in an intelligent 
manner, it may be well for her to know how they are prepared for 

WI-C1-* 



8 CEREALS § 3 

market. After the grains are harvested, the first step in their prepa- 
ration consists in thrashing, which removes the husks from the 
outside. In some countries, thrashing is done entirely by hand, but 
usually it is accomplished by machinery of a simple or a more elabo- 
rate kind. Occasionally no further treatment is applied, the whole 
grains being used as food, but generally they receive further prepa- 
ration. Sometimes they are crushed coarsely with or without the 
bran covering, and in this form they are known as grits. At other 
times they are ground finer and called meal, and still finer and 
called flour, being used mostly in these two forms for the making 
of various kinds of breads. Then, again, grains are rolled and 
crushed, as, for example, cracked wheat and rolled oats. 

Various elaborate means have been devised by which cereals are 
prepared in unusual ways for the purpose of varying the diet. Some- 
times they are used alone, but often certain other materials are used 
in their preparation for the market. For example, the popular flake 
cereals, such as corn flakes, are cooked with salt and sometimes with 
sugar and then rolled thin. Some of the cereals are thoroughly 
cooked, while others are malted and toasted, but the treatment to 
which they are subjected is generally given to them to improve their 
flavor and to aid in the work of digestion. 

17. Factors That Govern Cereal Selection. — Besides 
knowing about the ways in which cereals are prepared for market, 
the housewife should be familiar with the factors that govern their 
selection for use as food. In the first place, cereals should be chosen 
to suit the needs and tastes of the members of the family, and then 
attention should be given to the forms in which they can be pur- 
chased. Some cereals are sold in sealed packages, while others can 
be bought in bulk. Each, however, has its advantages. Those sold 
loose are often lower in price than those sold in package form, but 
there is a question as to whether, with the chances for incorrect 
weight, the bulk foods are really much cheaper. Cleanliness is, of 
course, of greater importance with cereals that do not require cook- 
ing than with those which are subjected to high temperatures 
in order to prepare them for the table. Therefore, from the stand- 
point of cleanliness, there is no advantage in purchasing rice and 
similar raw cereals in packages. 

18. The next thing to consider in the purchase of cereals is their 
cost. They vary considerably in price, but it has been determined 



§ 3 CEREALS 9 

that in food value there is little difiference, pound for pound, between 
the cheap and the expensive cereals, the variation in price being due 
to their abundance or scarcity and the method used in preparing them 
for market. The entirely uncooked ones are the cheapest, the partly 
cooked ones are medium in price, and the thoroughly cooked ones 
are the most expensive. This difference, however, is practically 
made up by the expense of the fuel required to prepare them for the 
table, the cheapest cereal requiring the most fuel and the most 
expensive, the least. 

Besides varying in price, the different kinds of cereals offer the 
housewife an opportunity to select the one that is most convenient 
for her. Those which are ready to serve are the best for the meal 
to which the least possible amount of time can be given for prepara- 
tion. The other kinds require cooking, of course, but this need not 
be a hindrance, for they can be prepared on one day and reheated 
for breakfast the following day, or they can be cooked overnight by 
the fireless-cooker method. In the case of such cereals, long cooking 
is usually necessary for good flavor and easy digestion ; consequently, 
the cooking method that will accomplish the desired result with the 
least expenditure of fuel is the most economical one and the one to 
select. 

19. Table of Grain Products. — As a further aid in coming 
to an understanding of cereals, or grains, and their value, there are 
given in Table II the various uses to which grains are put and the 
forms in which they occur as food. In this table, as will be observed, 
the form of the grain product is mentioned first and then the grain 
from which it is made. A careful study of this table will be profit- 
able to the housewife. 

20. Care of Cereals. — As carriers of disease, cereals are a less 
dangerous food than any other. This characteristic of cereals is due 
to the fact that the cooking all of them require in some part of 
their preparation destroys any disease germs that might be pres- 
ent. They are not likely to be adulterated with harmful material, 
either; and, in addition, the sealed packages in which many of the 
cereals are put up keep them clean and free from contamination. 
However, care must be given to both the uncooked and the factory- 
prepared varieties of this food. The packages containing ready-to- 
eat cereals should not be allowed to remain open for any length of 
time if it is desired to keep them fresh and crisp, for they absorb 



10 



CEREALS 



§3 



moisture from the air very quickly. If they do become moist, how- 
ever, drying in the oven will in most cases restore their freshness. 
If it is necessary to open a single package of prepared cereal and 
all of the contents cannot be utilized at once, as, for instance, when 
only one or two persons are to be served with that particular cereal, 

TABLE II 

GRAIN PRODUCTS 

Pearl barley 
Hulled wheat 
Whole Grains i Hominy : Corn 

Corn 
Rice 



Crushed Grains 



Cereals 



Meal 



Prepared Cereals 



{Corn 
Rice 
Wheat 
{Macaroni 
Vermicelli 
Spaghetti 

Glucose 1 TT II 

J,. I Usually corn 

f Wheat 
Cereal Coffee i Rye 

[Barley 



Farina : Wheat or corn 
Cream of Wheat : Wheat 
Cracked Wheat: Wheat 
Hominy Grits : Corn 
Wheat Grits : Wheat 
Samp : Corn 

Corn 
Barley 
Rice 
Oats 

Flaked: Rye, wheat, rice, corn 
Shredded Grain : Wheat 
Malted Grain : Rye, barley, wheat, and com 
Puffed Grain: Corn, rice, wheat 

Wheat 
Rye 
Flour ■ Corn 

Buckwheat 
.Rice 



All grains 



Liquors 

Malted Drinks 

Beer 

Whisky 

Alcohol : All grains 

Feed for animals : All grains 



the best plan is to empty the remainder into cans or jars that are 
provided with covers. Uncooked cereals, which are used less 
quickly than the prepared kinds, are often attacked by mice and 
other vermin, but such an occurrence can be prevented if the cereal 
is poured into jars or cans that can be kept tightly closed. Consider- 



§ 3 CEREALS 11 

able care must be given to flour and cereal products purchased in 
large quantities, for if they are allowed to collect enough moisture, 
they will become moldy and lose their flavor, and thus be unfit for 
use. To preserve them well, they should be kept in metal-lined 
bins or in bins made of carefully matched boards and in a cool, but 
not damp, place. 

PREPARATION OF CEREALS FOR THE TABLE 



METHODS OF COOKING CEREALS 

21. Purpose of Cooking:. — As the so-called ready-to-eat 
cereals require practically no further preparation, attention is here 
given to only those cereals which need additional treatment to pre- 
pare them properly for the table. Raw grains cannot be taken into 
the body, for they are neither appetizing nor digestible. The treat- 
ment to which they must be subjected is cooking, for the structure 
of grains is such that cooking is the only means by which the cover- 
ings of the starch granules can be softened and broken to make them 
digestible. But this is not the only eiiect produced by cooking; 
besides making raw cereals digestible, cooking renders them pala- 
table, destroys any bacteria or parasites that might be present, and, 
by means of its various methods, provides a variety of dishes that 
would otherwise be very much limited. 

22. Changes That Cereals Undergo in Cooking. — In the 

process of cooking, cereals undergo a marked change, which can 
readily be determined by performing a simple experiment. Place an 
equal amount of flour or corn starch — both cereal products — in two 
different glasses; mix that in one glass with cold water and that in 
the other with boiling water. The mixture in which cold water 
is used will settle in a short time, but if the substance that goes 
to the bottom is collected and dried it will be found to be exactly 
the same as it was originally. The mixture in which boiling water 
is used, however, will not only become a sticky mass, but will 
remain such; that is, it will never again resume its original form. 
This experiment proves, then, that grains that come in contact with 
water at a high temperature, as in cooking, absorb the water and 
burst their cellulose covering. This bursting frees the granulose, 



12 



CEREALS 



§3 



or the contents of the tiny granules, which are deposited in a net- 
work of cellulose, and as soon as this occurs it mixes with water and 
forms what is called soluble starch. Starch in this state is ready for 
digestion, but in the original, uncooked state only a very small part 
of it, if any, is digestible. 

23. Preparation for Cooking Cereals. — Before the cooking 
of cereals is attempted, it is advisable for the sake of convenience to 
get out all utensils as well as all ingredients that are to be used and 
arrange them so that they will be within easy reach. The way in 
which this should be done is illustrated in Fig. 1. The utensils and 
ingredients shown, which are suitable for most methods of cooking 
cereals and particularly for cooking them by the steaming process, 




Fig. 1 

consist of a double boiler o; a measuring cup b, a knife c, and 
spoons d and e, for measuring; a large spoon /, for stirring; a salt 
container; and a package of cereal. The housewife will be able to 
tell quickly from a recipe just what ingredients and utensils she will 
need, and by following the plan here suggested and illustrated she 
will find that her work can be done systematically and with the least 
expenditure of time. 

24. First Steps in the Process of Cooking. — ^While cereals 
may be cooked in a variety of ways, the first steps in all the proc- 
esses are practically the same. In the first place, the required 
amount of water should be brought to the boiling point, for if the 
water is boiling the cereal will thicken more rapidly and there will be 



§ 3 CEREALS 13 

less danger of lumps forming. Then salt should be added to the 
water in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful to each cupful of cereal. 
Next, the cereal should be stirred into the boiling salted water slowly 
enough to prevent it from forming lumps, and then, being constantly 
stirred, it should be allowed to cook until it thickens. The process 
up to this point is called setting a cereal, or grain. After the cereal 
is set, it may be boiled, steamed, or cooked in the fireless cooker, but 
the method of cookery selected should be chosen with a view to 
economy, convenience, and thoroughness. The terms setting and set 
should be thoroughly fixed in the mind, so that directions and recipes 
in which they are used will be readily understood. 

25. Cooking Cereals by Boiling. — Very often the cerea\, 
after it is set, is allowed to cook slowly until it is ready to serve ; that 
is, the method of boiling is practiced. This method, however, is not 
to be recommended, because it is not economical. Cereals cooked in 
this way require constant watching and stirring, and even then it is 
difficult to keep them from sticking to the cooking utensil and scorch- 
ing or becoming pasty on account of the constant motion. Some- 
times, to overcome this condition, a large quantity of water is added, 
as in the boiling of rice ; still, as some of this water must be poured 
off after the cooking is completed, a certain amount of starch and 
soluble material is lost. 

26. Cooking Cereals in the Double Boiler. — Probably the 
most satisfactory way in which to cook cereals, so far as thorough- 
ness is concerned, is in a double boiler, one style of which is shown 
at a, Fig. 1. This method of cookery is known as steaming, or dry 
steaming, and by it the food itself, after it is set, never comes within 
6 or 8 degrees of the boiling point. In this method, the cereal is first 
set in the small, or upper, pan of the double boiler. This pan, which 
is covered, is placed into th^ large, or lower, pan, which should con- 
tain boiling water, and the cereal is allowed to cook until it is ready 
to serve. The water in the large pan should be replenished from 
time to time, for if it is completely evaporated by boiling, the pan will 
be spoiled and the cereal in the upper pan will burn. 

This method of cooking has several advantages that should not be 
disregarded. Cereals to which it is applied may be partly cooked on 
one day and the cooking completed the next morning before break- 
fast, or they may be completely cooked on one day and merely heated 
before they are served. Then, when cooked at a temperature slightly 



14 CEREALS §3 

below the boiling point, the grains remain whole, but become thor- 
oughly softened, because they gradually absorb the water that sur- 
rounds them. In addition, the long cooking that is necessary to 
prepare them at a low temperature develops a delicious flavor, which 
cannot be obtained by rapid cooking at the boiling point. 

27. Cooking Cereals In tlie Fireless Cooker. — In a kitchen 

that is equipped with a fireless cooker, it is advisable to use this 
utensil for cereals, for cooking them by this method secures the 
greatest economy of fuel and effort. As in the preceding methods, 
the cereal is first set in the pan that fits into the cooker compartment. 
While the cereal is at the boiling point, this pan is covered tightly 
and placed in the fireless cooker, where it is allowed to remain until 
the cereal is ready to be served. The heat that the cereal holds 
when it is placed in the cooker is retained, and this is what cooks it. 
Therefore, while this method of cooking requires considerable time, 
it needs neither additional heat nor labor after the cereal is placed in 
the cooker. In reality, it is an advantageous way in which to cook 
cereals, since, if they can be set and placed in the cooker in the eve- 
ning, they will be ready to serve at breakfast time on the following 
day. 

28. Cooking Cereals by Dry Heat. — An old method of 
cooking cereals or starchy foods is called browning, or toasting, and 
it involves cooking them by dry heat. A thin layer of grain is spread 
in a shallow pan and this is placed in a slow oven. After the grains 
have browned slightly, they are stirred, and then they are permitted 
to brown until an even color is obtained. By this method the flavor 
of the cereals is developed and their digestibility increased. Since 
grains keep much better after they have been subjected to the process 
of toasting, this means is used extensively for preserving grains and 
cereal foods. 

29. Points to Observe in Cooking Cereals. — In cooking 
cereals by any method, except browning, or toasting, it is always 
necessary to use liquid of some kind. The quantity to use, however, 
varies with the kind of cereal that is to be cooked, whole cereals and 
those coarsely ground requiring more liquid than those which are 
crushed or finely ground. If the liquid is to be absorbed completely 
when the grain is cooked, it should be in the correct proportion to 
the grain. To be right, cooked cereals should be of the consistency 



§ 3 CEREALS 15 

of mush, but not thin enough to pour. Much attention should be 
given to this matter, for mistakes are difficult to remedy. Cereals 
that are too thick after they are cooked cannot be readily thinned 
without becoming lumpy, and those which are too thin cannot be 
brought to the proper consistency unless the excess of liquid is 
evaporated by boiling. 

Gruels are, of course, much thinner than the usual form of cereal. 
They are made by cooking cereals rapidly in a large quantity of 
water, and this causes the starch grains to disintegrate, or break into 
pieces, and mix with the water. The whole mixture is then poured 
through a sieve, which removes the coarse particles and produces a 
smooth mass that is thin enough to pour. 

The length of time to cook cereals also varies with their kind and 
form, the coarse ones requiring more time than the fine ones. 
Because of this fact, it is difficult to say just how much time is 
required to cook the numerous varieties thoroughly. However, little 
difficulty will be experienced if it is remembered that cereals should 
always be allowed to cook until they can be readily crushed between 
the fingers, but not until they are mushy in consistency. 



INDIAN CORN, OR MAIZE 



ORIGIN, CliASSIFICATION, AND USE 

30. The word corn has been applied to various grains and is now 
used in a variety of ways in different countries. In ancient times, 
barley was called corn, and at the present time, in some countries, the 
entire year's food crop is referred to by this name. The English 
apply the name corn to wheat, and the Scotch, to oats. In the United 
States, corn is the name applied to the seed of the maize plant, which 
is a highly developed grass plant that forms the largest single crop 
of the country. The seeds of this plant grow on a woody cob, and 
are eaten as a vegetable when they are soft and milky, but as a grain, 
or cereal, when they are mature. Corn is native to America and was 
not known in Europe until Columbus took it back with him. How- 
ever, it did not meet with much favor there, for it was not grown to 
any great extent until within the last 50 years. Those who took it to 
Europe gave it the name Indian corn, because they had found the 
Indians of America raising it. 



16 CEREALS §3 

31. Of the corn grown in the United States, there are three 
general kinds : field corn, sweet corn, and pop corn. Field corn, as a 
rule, is grown in large quantities and allowed to mature; then it is 
fed to animals or ground and cooked for the use of man. This corn 
consists of three varieties, which are distinguished by the color of the 
grain, one being white, one yellow, and one red. All of them are 
made into a variety of preparations, but the white and the yellow are 
used as food for both man and animals, whereas red field com is 
used exclusively for animal food. White corn has a mild flavor, but 
yellow corn is sometimes preferred to it, because foods made from 
the yellow variety have a more decided flavor. The two principal 
varieties of field corn, when prepared as cereal food for man, are 
hominy and corn meal. Sweet corn is not grown in such large quan- 
tities as field corn. It is generally used for food before it is mature 
and is considered as a vegetable. Pop corn, when sufficiently dry, 
swells and bursts upon being heated. It is used more as a confection 
than as a staple article of food. Therefore, at this time, considera- 
tion need be given to only the principal varieties of field-corn prod- 
ucts, which, as has just been stated, are hominy and corn meal. 



RECIPES FOR HOMINY AND CORN BTEAIi 

32. Hominy is whole corn from which the outside covering 
has been removed, and for this reason it is high in food value. Com 
in this form may be procured as a commercial product, but it may 
be prepared in the home at less expense. As a commercial product, 
it is sold dry by the pound or cooked as a canned food. Dry hominy 
requires long cooking to make it palatable, and this, of course, 
increases its cost; but even with this additional cost it is cheaper 
than canned hominy. 

Sometimes corn from which the covering has been removed is 
ground or crushed to form what is called samp, or grits, and when it 
is ground still more finely corn meal is produced. Com meal is 
made from both white and yellow corn, and is ground more finely 
in some localities than in others. It is sold loose by the pound, but 
it can also be bought in bags or packages of various sizes from 
1 pound up. Corn meal should be included in the diet of every 
economical family, for it yields a large quantity of food at a moder- 
ately low cost. If it is prepared well, it is very palatable, and when 
eaten with milk or cream it is a food that is particularly desirable 



§ 3 CEREALS 17 

for children, especially for the evening meal, because of its food 
value and the fact that it is easily digested. 

33. So that the importance of these corn products may be under- 
stood and the products then used to the best advantage in the diet, 
recipes are here given for preparing hominy in the home, for dishes 
in which hominy forms the principal part, and for dishes in which 
corn meal is used. To get the best results from these recipes and 
thereby become thoroughly familiar with the cooking processes 
involved, it is recommended that each one be worked out in detail. 
This thought applies as well to all recipes given throughout the vari- 
ous Sections. Of course, to prepare each recipe is not compulsory; 
nevertheless, to learn to cook right means actually to do the work 
called for by the recipes, not merely once, but from time to time as 
the food can be utilized to give variety to the daily menus in the 
home. 

34. Hominy. — Although, as has been mentioned, prepared 
hominy may be purchased, some housewives prefer to prepare it 
themselves. Hominy serves as a foundation from which many satis- 
factory dishes can be made, as it is high in food value and reasonable 
in cost. This cereal can be used in so many ways that it is advisable 
to prepare enough at one time to meet the demands of several meals. 
The following recipe for making hominy should provide 3 quarts of 
this cereal ; however, as is true of other recipes — a point that should 
be remembered throughout the various lessons — the quantities given 
may be increased or decreased to meet with the requirements of the 

household. 

Hominy 
(Sufficient for 3 Quarts) 

2 qt. water 1 qt. shelled corn 

1 Tb. lye 3 tsp. salt 

Put the water into a large kettle or saucepan, and into the water 
put the lye. Allow the water to come to the boiling point, and then 
add the corn and let it boil until the skins will slip off the grains when 
they are pressed between the thumb and the finger. Take from the 
stove, stir sufficiently to loosen the skins, and then remove them by 
washing the grains of corn in a coarse colander. Cover the grains 
with cold water and return to the fire. When the water boils, pour 
it off. Repeat this process at least three times, so as to make sure 
that there is no trace of the lye, and then allow the grains to cook in 



18 CEREALS § 3 

more water until they burst. Season them with the salt, and while 
the hominy thus prepared is still hot put it into a jar or a crock and 
cover it tight until it is to be used. The water in which the hominy 
is cooked should remain on it. 

35. Buttered Hominy. — Perhaps the simplest method of pre- 
paring cooked hominy is to butter it. In this form it may be served 
with cream as a breakfast or a luncheon dish, or it may be used 
in the place of a vegetable. 

Buttered Hominy 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. cooked hominy 1 tsp. salt 

3 Tb. butter 

Allow a few spoonfuls of water to remain on the cooked hominy. 
Add the butter and the salt, and then heat all thoroughly, stirring the 
hominy gently so as to incorporate, or mix in, the butter and the salt. 
Serve while hot. 

36. Creamed Hominy. — The addition of a cream sauce to 
cooked hominy not only adds to the palatableness of this cereal, but 
increases its food value. When hominy is served with a sauce, it 
may be used as a dinner vegetable or as the main dish in a light meal. 

Creamed Hominy 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. milk 1 Tb. flour 

2 Tb. butter 1 pt. cooked hominy 
1 tsp. salt 

Heat the milk, and to it add the butter and the salt. Then thicken 
it with the flour. To this sauce add the hominy and allow all to 
cook slowly for 10 or 15 minutes. Serve the creamed hominy hot. 

37. Hominy Grits. — The cereal sold under the name of 
hominy grits is prepared commercially by crushing dried hominy 
grains. It has practically the same food value as hominy, and in 
appearance resembles cream of wheat. The following recipe shows 
the simplest way in which to prepare this food, it being usually 
served as a breakfast cereal in this form : 

Hominy Grits 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. hominy grits 

4 c. water 



§3 



CEREALS 



19 



Add the salt to the water and bring it to the boiling point. Stir 
the hominy grits into the water and continue to boil for 10 minutes. 
Then place in a double boiler and cook for 3 to 4 hours. Serve hot 
with cream or milk and sugar. 

38. Left-Over Hominy. — No waste need result from hominy 
that is not used at the 
meal for which it is pre- 
pared, for it may be util- 
ized in many ways. For 
example, it may be 
served cold with fruit 
and cream, made into 
croquettes with chopped 
meat or cheese and either 
sauted or baked, or used 
in soups to increase ma- 
terially their food value. 
A dish prepared by com- P'°- 2 

bining cooked or left-over hominy with other ingredients to form 
hominy and cheese souffle, which is illustrated in Fig. 2, will prove 
to be very appetizing. 

Hominy and Cheese Souffl^ 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 




1^ c. cooked hominy 
4 c. hot milk 
i tsp. salt 



i tsp. paprika 

1 c. grated cheese 

2 eggs 



Work the hominy smooth by mashing it with a fork, and then add 
the hot milk, salt, paprika, and grated cheese. Separate the eggs, 
beat the yolks thoroughly, and stir them well into the mixture. Next, 
fold in the whites, which should be stiffly beaten, pour the mass into 
a buttered baking dish, and bake until it is firm in the center. Serve 
hot. 



39. Corn-Meal Mush. — Since corn meal is comparatively 
inexpensive and high in food value, the housewife can make frequent 
use of it to advantage. In the form of mush, corn meal is easily 
digested; besides, such mush is a very good breakfast cereal when 
served hot with milk or cream. Although the recipe here given 
makes a sufficient amount for six persons, a good plan is to increase 



20 CEREALS § 3 

the quantities mentioned so that there will be enough mush left to 
mold and use in other ways. 

Corn-Meal Mush 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. corn meal 

3^ c. water 

Add the salt to the water and bring the salted water to the boiling 
point. When it is boiling rapidly, sift the corn meal slowly through 
the fingers into it, and at the same time stir it rapidly so as to pre- 
vent the formation of lumps. Any mush that contains lumps has not 
been properly made and should not be served in this condition, as it 
is unpalatable. Keep stirring constantly until the corn meal thickens ; 
then place it in a double boiler and allow it to cook from 2 to 4 hours, 
when it should be ready to serve. This method of cooking mush is 
the most convenient, because not much stirring is required after the 
corn meal is thickened. 

A heavy aluminum kettle or an iron pot is a good utensil in which 
to cook mush, as it does not burn easily in either, although almost con- 
stant stirring is required. When the mush becomes very thick, the 
heated air, in forcing its way through the mush in the process of boil- 
ing, makes the mush pop and very often splash on the hands and 
burn them. To avoid such an accident, therefore, it is advisable to 
wrap the hand used for stirring in a towel or a cloth. 

40. Saut6d Corn-Meal Mush. — Mush cooked in the manner 
just explained may be poured into pans, such as bread pans, where 
it will harden and form a mold that can be sliced as thick or as thin 
as desired and then sauted. Corn-meal mush prepared in this way 
pleases the taste of many persons, and while some persons find it 
harder to digest than just plain mush, it serves to give variety to 
meals. For sauteing mush, a heavy iron or steel frying pan or grid- 
dle should be used, because utensils made of thin material will allow 
the mush to burn before it browns properly. Put enough fat, such 
as lard, cooking oil, or drippings, into the cooking utensil so that when 
heated it will be about i inch deep all over the surface. When the 
utensil is very hot, put in the slices of mush and allow them to brown 
on one side. Then turn the slices over carefully, so as not to break 
them, and brown them on the other side. As will be observed, corn- 
meal mush does not brown quickly in sauteing. This characteristic 
is due to the large amount of moisture it contains. Serve the mush 
hot, and to add to its flavor serve with it sirup or honey. 



§ 3 CEREALS 21 

41. Corn-Meal Croquettes. — Croquettes of any kind add 
variety to a meal, and because they are attractive they appeal to the 
appetite. To make croquettes of corn meal, mold mush as for 
sauteing. Then cut this into slices 1 inch thick, and cut each slice 
into strips 1 inch wide. Roll these in slightly beaten egg and then in 
crumbs, and saute them in hot fat until they are crisp and brown. 
Serve these croquettes hot with either butter or sirup or both. 

42. Left-Over Corn-Meal Mush. — Sauted corn-meal mush 
and corn-meal croquettes can, of course, be made from mush that is 
left over after it has been cooked to serve as a cereal ; however, if 
there is only a small quantity left, it may be utilized in still another 
way, namely, as a garnish for the platter on which meat is served. 
To prepare corn-meal mush in this way, spread it about J inch thick 
in a pan and allow it to cool. Then turn it out of the pan in a sheet 
on a board that has been floured ; that is, covered thinly with flour. 
Cut this sheet of corn meal into small circles with the aid of a round 
cutter or into diamond shapes with a knife, and then brown both 
sides of each of these in butter. 



WHEAT 



ORIGIN AND USE 



43. Wheat, owing to the fact that it is grown in all parts of the 
world and forms the basis for a large amount of the food of most 
people, is a very important grain. It was probably a native grass of 
Asia Minor and Egypt, for in these countries it first received culti- 
vation. From the land of its origin, the use of wheat spread over 
all the world, but it was not introduced into America until after the 
discovery of this country by Columbus. Now, however, the United 
States raises more wheat than any other one country, and nearly 
one-fourth of all that is raised in the world. 

Wheat is universally used for bread, because it contains a large 
amount of the kind of protein that lends a rubbery consistency to 
dough and thus makes possible the incorporation of the gas or air 
required to make bread light. The use of wheat, however, is by 
no means restricted to bread, for, as is well known, many cereal 
foods are prepared from this grain. 



22 CEREALS § 3 

44. In its simplest food form, wheat is prepared by merely 
removing the coarse bran from the outside of the wheat grain and 
leaving the grain whole. This is called hulled, or whole, wheat, and 
requires soaking or long, slow cooking in order that all its starch 
granules may be reached and softened sufficiently to make it pala- 
table. The other preparations are made by crushing or grinding the 
grains from which some of the bran and germ has been removed. 
Besides flour, which, as has been implied, is not considered as a cereal 
in the sense used in this Section, these preparations include wheat 
grits, such foods as cream of wheat and farina, and many ready-to- 
eat cereals. In the preparation of wheat grits, much of the bran is 
allowed to remain, but neither cream of wheat nor farina contains 
cellulose in any appreciable quantity. As the addition of bran, how- 
ever, serves to give these foods bulk, a much more ideal breakfast 
cereal will result if, before cooking, equal portions of the cereal and 
the bran are mixed. In preparing ready-to-eat wheat cereals for 
the market, the manufacturers subject the grains to such elaborate 
methods of cooking, rolling, and toasting that these foods require 
but very little additional attention before serving. The only wheat 
products that demand further attention at this time, therefore, are 
those which must be cooked before they can be served and eaten. 



RECIPES FOR WHEAT AND WHEAT PRODUCTS 

45. Hulled Wheat. — Inasmuch as hulled, or whole, wheat 
requires very little preparation for the market, it is a comparatively 
cheap food. It is used almost exclusively as a breakfast cereal, but 
serves as a good substitute for hominy or rice. Although, as has 
been mentioned, it requires long cooking, its preparation for the table 
is so simple that the cooking need not necessarily increase its cost 
materially. One of the advantages of this food is that it never 
becomes so soft that it does not require thorough mastication. 

Hulled Wheat 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 c. hulled wheat 1 tsp. salt 

3 c. water 
Look the wheat over carefully and remove any foreign matter. 
Then add the water and soak 8 to 10 hours, or overnight. Add the 
salt, cook directly over the flame for \ hour, and then finish cooking 
in a double boiler for 3 to 4 hours. Serve with cream or milk and 
sugar. 



§ 3 CEREALS 23 

46. Wheat Grits. — The cereal known as wheat grits is made 
commercially by crushing the wheat grains and allowing a consider- 
able proportion of the wheat bran to remain. Grits may be used as a 
breakfast cereal, when they should be served hot with cream or milk 
and sugar; they also make an excellent luncheon dish if they are 
served with either butter or gravy. The fact that this cereal contains 
bran makes it an excellent one to use in cases where a food with bulk 
is desired. The accompanying recipe is for a plain cereal ; however, 
an excellent variation may be had by adding ^ cupful of well-cleaned 
raisins J hour before serving. 

Wheat Grits 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

i tsp. salt f c. wheat grits 

3 c. boiling water 

Add the salt to the boiling water, sift the wheat grits through the 
fingers into the rapidly boiling water, and stir rapidly to prevent the 
formation of lumps. Cook for a few minutes until the grits thicken, 
and then place in a double boiler and cook 2 to 4 hours. 

47. Cream of Wheat. — In the manufacture of cream of 
wheat, not only is all the bran removed, as has been stated, but the 
wheat is made fine and granular. This wheat preparation, there- 
fore, does not require so much cooking to make it palatable as do 
some of the other cereals ; still, cooking it a comparatively long time 
tends to improve its flavor. When made according to the following 
recipe it is a very good breakfast dish : 

Cream of Wheat 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 tsp. salt f c. cream of wheat 

4^ c. boiling water 

Add the salt to the boiling water, and when it bubbles sift in the 
cream of wheat through the fingers, stirring rapidly to prevent the 
formation of lumps. Cook over the flame for a few minutes until 
it thickens ; then place it in a double boiler and cook for 1 to 2 hours. 
Serve hot with cream or milk and sugar. 

48. Cream of Wheat With Dates. — Dates added to cream of 
wheat supply to a great extent the cellulose and mineral salts that 
are taken out when the bran is removed in the manufacture of this 
cereal. They likewise give to it a flavor that is very satisfactory, 
especially when added in the manner here explained. 

W I— C 1—9 



24 CEREALS § 3 

Cream of Wheat With Dates 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

f c. cream of wheat 4^ c. boiling water 

1 tsp. salt I c. dates 

Cook the cream of wheat in the manner directed in Art. 47. 
Wash the dates in hot water, cut them lengthwise with a sharp knife, 
and remove the seeds. Cut each date into four pieces and add them 
to the cream of wheat 10 minutes before serving, stirring them into 
the cereal just enough to distribute them evenly. Serve hot with 
cream or milk and sugar. 

49. rarlna. — The wheat preparation called farina is very much 

the same as cream of wheat, being manufactured in practically the 

same manner. It is a good breakfast cereal when properly cooked, 

but it does not contain sufficient cellulose to put it in the class of 

bulky foods. However, as has been pointed out, this bulk may be 

supplied by mixing with it, before cooking, an equal amount of bran. 

In such a case, of course, more water will be needed and the cooking 

process will have to be prolonged. Plain farina should be prepared 

according to the recipe here given, but, as in preparing cream of 

wheat, dates may be added to impart flavor if desired. 

Farina 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 tsp. salt f c. farina 

4 c. boiling water 
Add the salt to the boiling water, and as the water bubbles rapidly 
sift the farina into it slowly through the fingers, stirring rapidly to 
prevent the formation of lumps. Then place it in a double boiler 
and allow it cook for 2 to 4 hours. Serve hot with cream or milk 
and sugar. 

50. Graham Mush With Dates. — Graham flour is a wheat 
product that is high in food value, because in its manufacture no 
part of the wheat grain is removed. While the use of this flour as a 
breakfast cereal is not generally known, it can be made into a very 
appetizing and nutritious dish, especially if such fruit as dates is 
mixed with it. 

Graham Mush With Dates 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. graham flour 1 tsp. salt 

3 c. water 1 c. dates 

Moisten the graham flour carefully with 1 cupful of the cold water. 
When perfectly smooth, add it to the remainder of the water, to 



§ 3 CEREALS 25 

which the salt has been added, and boil rapidly, allowing the mix- 
ture to cook until it thickens. Then place it in a double boiler and 
cook 1 to 2 hours. Wash the dates, remove the stones, and cut. each 
into four pieces. Add these to the mush 10 minutes before serving. 
Serve hot with cream or milk and sugar. 

51. Left-Over Wheat Cereals. — Numerous ways have been 
devised for utilizing wheat cereals that are left over, so that no 
waste need result from what is not eaten at the meal for which a 
cereal is cooked. For instance, left-over hulled wheat can be used 
in soup in the same way as barley and rice, and plain cream of wheat 
and farina can be molded, sliced, and sauted like corn-meal mush 
and served with sirup. The molded cereal can also be cut into 2-inch 
cubes and served with any fruit juice that is thickened slightly with 
corn starch. Besides utilizing left-over wheat cereals in the ways 
mentioned, it is possible to make them into custards and souffles, as 
is shown in the two accompanying recipes, in which cream of wheat 
may be used in the same manner as farina. 

Farina Custabd 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. cold farina i c. sugar 

2 c. milk i tsp. nutmeg 
2 eggs 

Stir the farina and milk together until they are perfectly smooth ; 
then add the eggs, beaten slightly, the sugar, and the nutmeg. Bake 
in a moderately hot oven until firm and serve hot or cold with any 
sauce desired. 

Farina Souffle 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. cold farina J tsp. paprika 

1^ c. milk 1 c. grated cheese 

I tsp. salt 2 eggs 

Stir the farina smooth with the milk, add the salt, paprika, grated 
cheese, and egg yolks, which should first be beaten. Then beat the 
egg whites stiff and fold them into the mixture. Pour all into a 
buttered baking dish, place this in a large pan filled with enough hot 
water to reach almost to the top of the baking dish, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven until the mixture in the dish is firm in the center. 
Serve at once upon taking from the oven. 



26 CEREALS § 3 



RICE 



VARIETIES AND STRUCTURE 

52. Rice, next to wheat, is used more extensively as a food than 
any other cereal. It is a plant much like wheat in appearance, but it 
grows only in warm climates and requires very moist soil. In fact, 
the best land for rice is that which may be flooded with about 
6 inches of water. This cereal is of two kinds, namely, Carolina rice 
and Japanese rice. Carolina rice, which is raised chiefly in the 
southeastern part of the United States, has a long, narrow grain, 
whereas Japanese rice, which originated in Japan and is raised 
extensively in that country and China and India, has a short, flat, 
oval grain. Efforts made to raise the Japanese variety in the United 
States show a peculiarity of this cereal, for when it is planted in the 
same locality as Carolina rice, it soon loses its identity and takes on 
the shape of the other. Although vast crops of rice are raised in the 
United States, a large quantity of it must be imported, because 
these crops are not sufficient to supply the demands of this country. 

53. Before rice grains are prepared for use as food, they have 
two coverings. One is a coarse husk that is thrashed off and leaves 
the grain in the form of unpolished rice and the other, a thin, brown 
coating resembling bran. This thin coating, which is very difficult to 
remove, is called, after its removal, rice polishings. At one time, so 
much was said about the harmful effect of polished rice that a demand 
for unpolished rice was begun. This feeling of harm, however, was 
unnecessary, for while polished rice lacks mineral matter to a great 
extent, it is not harmful to a person and need cause no uneasiness, 
unless the other articles of the diet do not supply a sufficient amount 
of this food substance. After the inner coating has been removed, 
some of the rice is treated with paraffin or glucose and talc to give it 
a glazed appearance. This is called polish, and is sometimes con- 
founded with the term rice polishings. However, no confusion 
regarding these terms will result if it is remembered that rice polish- 
ings are the thin inner coating that is removed and polish is what is 
added to the rice. In composition, rice differs from the other cereals 
in that it is practically all starch and contains almost no fat nor 
protein. 



§ 3 CEREALS 27 

54. To be perfect, rice should be unbroken and uniform in size, 
and in order that it may be put on the market in this form the broken 
grains are sifted out. These broken grains are sold at a lower price 
than the whole grains, but the only difference between them is their 
appearance, the broken grains being quite as nutritious as the whole 
grains. In either form, rice is a comparatively cheap food, because 
it is plentiful, easily transported, and keeps perfectly for an indefinite 
period of time with very little care in storage. Before rice is used, 
it should be carefully examined and freed from the husks that are 
apt to remain in it; then it should be washed in hot water. The 
water in which rice is washed will have a milky appearance, which 
is due to the coating that is put on in polishing rice. 



RECIPES FOR RICB 

55. Rice may be cooked by three methods, each of which 
requires a different proportion of water. These methods are boiling, 
which requires twelve times as much water as rice ; the Japanese 
method, which requires five times as much; and steaming, which 
requires two and one-half times as much. Whichever of these 
methods is employed, however, it should be remembered that the 
rice grains, when properly cooked, must be whole and distinct. To 
give them this form and prevent the rice from having a pasty 
appearance, this cereal should not be stirred too much in cooking 
nor should it be cooked too long. 

56. Boiled Rice. — Boiling is about the simplest way in which 
to prepare rice for the table. Properly boiled rice not only forms 
a valuable dish itself, but is an excellent foundation for other dishes 
that may be served at any meal. The water in which rice is boiled 
should not be wasted, as it contains much nutritive material. This 
water may be utilized in the preparation of soups or sauces, or it 
may even be used to supply the liquid required in the making of 
yeast bread. The following recipe sets forth clearly how rice should 
be boiled : 

Boiled Rice 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. rice 3 qt. boiling water 

3 tsp. salt 

Wash the rice carefully and add it to the boiling salted water. 
Boil rapidly until the water begins to appear milky because of the 



28 CEREALS §3 

starch coming out of the rice into the water or until a grain can.be 
easily crushed between the fingers. Drain the cooked rice through 
a colander, and then pour cold water over the rice in the colander, 
so as to wash out the loose starch and leave each grain distinct. 
Reheat the rice by shaking it over the fire, and serve hot with 
butter, gravy, or cream or milk and sugar. 

57. Japanese Method of Cooking Rice. — Rice prepared 
by the Japanese method may be used in the same ways as boiled rice. 
However, unless some use is to be made of the liquid from boiled 
rice, the Japanese method has the advantage of being a more econom- 
ical way of cooking this cereal. 

Japanese Method 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. rice 5 c. boiling water 

1^ tsp. salt 
Wash the rice, add it to the boiling salted water, and boil slowly 
for IS minutes. Then cover the utensil in which the rice is cooking 
and place it in the oven for 15 minutes more, in order to evaporate 
the water more completely and make the grains soft without being 
mushy. Serve in the same way as boiled rice. 

58. Steamed Rice. — To steam rice requires more time than 
either of the preceding cooking methods, but it causes no loss of food 
material. Then, too, unless the rice is stirred too much while it is 
steaming, it will have a better appearance than rice cooked by the 
other methods. As in the case of boiled rice, steamed rice may be 
used as the foundation for a variety of dishes and may be served in 
any meal. 

Steamed Rice 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. rice 2| c. water 

li tsp. salt 
Wash the rice carefully and add it to the boiling salted water. 
Cook it for 5 minutes and then place it in a double boiler and allow 
it to cook until it is soft. Keep the cooking utensil covered and do 
not stir the rice. About 1 hour will be required to cook rice in this 
way. Serve in the same way as boiled rice. 

59. Creamed Rice. — To increase the nutritive value of rice, it 
is sometimes cooked with milk and cream to form what is known as 
creamed rice. These dairy products added to rice supply protein 



§ 3 CEREALS 29 

and fat, food substances in which this cereal is lacking, and also add 
to its palatability. 

Creamed Rice 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2i c. milk li tsp. salt 

1 c. rice -J c. cream 

Heat the milk in the small pan of a double boiler and add to it the 

rice and salt. Place this pan into the larger one and cook for about 

1 hour, or until the rice is soft. Then pour the cream over the rice 

and cook a few minutes longer. Serve hot. 

60. Oriental Rice.— As rice is a bland food, practically lacking 
in flavor, any flavoring material that may be added in its preparation 
or serving aids in making it more appetizing. Oriental rice, which is 
prepared according to the following recipe, therefore makes a very 
tasty dish and one that may be used in place of a vegetable for lunch 
or dinner. 

Oriental Rice 

(SuflRcient to Serve Six) 

1 c. rice 1 slice onion 

2i c. stock, or meat broth J c. canned tomatoes 

2 ' Tb. butter 

Steam the rice in the stock until it is soft by the method given for 
steaming rice. Then brown the butter and onion in a frying pan, add 
the tomatoes, and heat thoroughly. Pour this mixture into the rice, 
mix well, and serve. 

61. Browned Rice. — Another way in which to add variety in 
serving rice is to brown it. Sufficient browned rice for six persons 
may be prepared by putting 1 cupful of clean rice in an iron frying 
pan that contains no fat, placing the pan directly over the flame, and 
stirring the rice until the grains become an even, light brown. Rice 
that has been treated in this way has additional flavor added to it and 
can be used in the same way as boiled or steamed rice. 

62. Savory Rice. — Rice browned in the manner just explained 
is used in the preparation of savory rice, a dish that serves as a very 
good substitute for a vegetable. Savory rice may be prepared 
according to the following recipe : 

Savory Rice 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. browned rice 2 Tb. butter 

2i c. water 1 small onion, chopped 

1 tsp. salt i c. canned tomatoes 

^ c. chopped celery ^ c. chopped pimiento 



30 



CEREALS 



§3 



Steam the browned rice in the salted water as in steaming rice, 
and cook the celery, which should be chopped fine, with the rice for 
the last half hour of the steaming. Brown the butter and add to it 
the onion finely chopped, the tomatoes, and the pimiento. A few 
minutes before serving time, add this to the rice, mix well, and 
serve hot. 

63. Left-Over Rice. — There are a variety of ways in which 
left-over rice may be used. For instance, rice that has been cooked 
and is not used may be utilized in soups, combined with pancake, 
muffin, or omelet mixtures, or made into puddings by mixing it with 
a custard and then baking. It may be served with fruit, made into 
patties, or combined with tomatoes, cheese, or meat to form an appe- 
tizing dish. 

64. As has been shown, rice is one of the cereals that contain 
very little cellulose. Fruit added to it in the preparation of any dish 




Fig. 3 

makes up for this lack of cellulose and at the same time produces a 
delicious combination. Rice combined with pineapple to form a dish 
like that shown in Fig. 3 not only is very attractive but meets with 
the favor of many; besides, it provides a good way in which to 
utilize left-over rice. 

Rice With Pineapple 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. steamed or creamed rice 6 rings pineapple 

i c. sugar f c. whipped cream 

Stir the sugar into the rice and if necessary moisten with a little 
cream. Shape the rice into six balls of equal size, making them so 



§ 3 CEREALS 31 

that they will be about the same in diameter as the rings of the pine- 
apple, and place one in the center of each pineapple ring. Whip the 
cream with an egg whip or beater until it stands up well, and garnish 
each dish with the whipped cream before serving. 

65. Another satisfactory dish may be made by combining eggs 
with left-over rice to form rice patties. Owing to the protein 
supplied by the eggs, such a combination as this may be made to take 
the place of a light meat dish for luncheon or supper, and, to impart 
additional flavor, it may be served with any sauce desired. 

Rice Patties 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. stale crumbs 2 eggs 

i tsp. salt 2 c. steamed rice 

i tsp. celery salt 

Add i cupful of the crumbs, the salt, the celery salt, and the eggs, 
slightly beaten, to the cold steamed rice. If more moisture seems to 
be necessary, add a very little milk. Shape the rice with the other 
ingredients into round patties, and then roll these in the remainder 
of the crumbs and saute them in hot butter. Serve the patties hot 
and with sauce, if desired. 

66. Besides left-over rice, small quantities of one or more kinds 
of left-over meat and stock or gravy can be used to make a very 
appetizing dish known as Spanisli rice, which may be used as the 
main, or heavy, dish in a luncheon. 

Spanish Rice 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 small onion i c. meat stock or gravy 

2 Tb. butter i c. canned tomatoes 
li c. steamed or boiled rice 2 Tb. grated cheese 

1 c. chopped meat ^ c. stale crumbs 

Chop the onion and brown it in butter. Mix well the browned 
onion, rice, chopped meat, stock or gravy, and tomatoes, and pour all 
into a buttered baking dish. Then sprinkle the cheese and crumbs 
on top of the mixture and bake for 1 hour in a slow oven. Serve hot. 



32 CEREALS § 3 



OATS 



COMPOSITION AND VARIETIES 

67. As an article of food, oats are used very extensively. In 
Scotland, this cereal formed the principal article of diet for many 
years, and as the hardiness of the Scotch people is usually attributed 
to their diet the value of oats as a food cannot be overestimated. 
This grain, or cereal, grows very much like wheat and yields an 
abundant crop in fairly good soil ; but it is unlike wheat in composi- 
tion, for it contains very little protein and considerable fat. In fact, 
it contains more fat than any other cereal. Because of its lack of 
protein, it will not make raised bread, and when it must serve the 
purpose of bread it is made into flat cakes and baked. Although it 
is used to some extent in this way, its greatest use for food, partic- 
ularly in the United States, is in the form of oatmeal and rolled oats. 
In the preparation of oatmeal for the market, the oat grains are 
crushed or cut into very small pieces, while in the preparation of 
rolled oats they are crushed flat between large rollers. 



RECIPES FOR OATS 

68. The same methods of cooking can be applied to both oatmeal 
and rolled oats. Therefore, while the recipes here given are for 
rolled oats, it will be well to note that they can be used for oatmeal 
by merely substituting this cereal wherever rolled oats are mentioned. 

69. Rolled Oats. — Because of the high food value of rolled 
oats, this cereal is excellent for cold weather, especially when it is 
served with hot cream or milk and sugar. It can be prepared very 
easily, as the accompanying recipe shows. 

Rolled Oats 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. rolled oats 1 tsp. salt 

3 c. boiling water 

Stir the oats into the boiling water to which the salt has been 
added. Boil 2 minutes, stirring them occasionally to keep them from 
sticking. Then cook them in a double boiler for 2 to 4 hours. Dur- 
ing this time, stir the oats as little as possible, so as to prevent them 
from becoming mushy. Serve hot. 



§3 



CEREALS 



33 



70. Boiled Oats With Apples. — The combination of rolled 
oats and apples is rather unusual, still it makes a dish that lends 
variety to a breakfast or a luncheon. Such a dish is easily digested, 
because the apples supply to it a considerable quantity of cellulose 
and mineral salts. 

Rolled Oats With Apples 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

f c. rolled oats 6 medium-sized apples 

2 c. boiling water 1 c. water 

i tsp. salt I c. sugar 

Stir the rolled oats into the boiling salted water and cook them 
until they set ; then place them in a double boiler and cook for 2 to 
4 hours. Pare and core the apples, and then cook them whole in a 
sirup made of 1 cupful 
of water and | cupful of 
sugar until they are soft, 
but not soft enough to 
fall apart. To serve the 
food, place it in six 
cereal dishes. Put a 
large spoonful of the 
cooked oats in each dish, 
arrange an apple on top 
of the oats, and then fill 
the hole left by the core F'c- * 

with rolled oats. Over each portion, pour some of the sirup left 
from cooking the apples, and serve hot with cream. 

71. Rolled-Oats Jelly With Prunes. — If an appetizing di»h 
for warm weather is desired, rolled oats may be cooked to form a 
jelly and then have stewed prunes added to it. Such a dish is illus- 
trated in Fig. 4. When served with cream, this combination of rolled 
oats and prunes is high in food value and consequently may be made 
the important dish in the meal for which it is used. 

Rolled-Oats Jelly With Prunes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. rolled oats 1 tsp. salt 

3 c. water 12 stewed prunes 

Cook the rolled oats according to the directions already given, and 
then force them through a fine sieve. Remove the seeds from the 
prunes that have been stewed by cooking them very slowly until 



^ 




'^^j^i^S'^k 


%i 


1^^ 


^ 


^fc.-^ 



34 CEREALS § 3 

they are soft in a sufficient quantity of water to cover them well, 
drain off all the juice, and place two prunes in the bottom of each 
of six cups, or molds, that have been moistened with cold water. 
Fill each with the rolled-oats jelly and set them aside to chill. When 
ready to serve, turn the food out of each mold into a cereal dish and 
serve with cream and sugar. 

72. Lef t-Over Rolled Oats. — Every housewife should refrain 
from throwing away any left-over rolled oats, because all of this 
cereal remaining from a previous meal can be used to good advan- 
tage. For example, it can be made especially tasty if, before it is 
cold, it is added to fruit, poured into molds and allowed to stand in 
them until it is cold, and then served with sugar and cream. Fruits 
of any kind, such as cooked peaches, prunes, and apricots or fresh 
bananas, may be used for this purpose by cutting them into small 
pieces. Another way of utilizing this cereal when it is warm is to 
pour it into a pan or a dish, press it down until it is about 1 inch 
thick, and then, after it is cold, cut it into pieces of any desirable size 
or shape, brown these pieces in butter, and then serve them with 
sirup. If the left-over cereal is cold, a good plan would be to serve 
it with baked apple ; that is, for each person to be served, place a 
spoonful of the cereal in a dish with a baked apple, sprinkle a little 
cinnamon or nutmeg over it, and then serve it with cream. Still 
another very good way in which to utilize left-over rolled oats is to 
make it into croquettes according to the following recipe: 

Rolled-Oats Croquettes 

(SuiRcient to Serve Four) 

i c. grated cheese i tsp. paprika 

f c. crumbs 1 c. cooked rolled oats 

i tsp. salt 1 egg 

Work the cheese with ^ cupful of the crumbs, the salt, and the 
paprika into the cold rolled oats ; then add the egg, which should be 
slightly beaten. If more moisture seems to be necessary, add a little 
milk. Form the ingredients into small croquettes, and then roll them 
in the remaining i cupful of crumbs and saute then in butter. Gar- 
nish with parsley and serve. 



§S CEREALS 35 



BARLEY 



ORIGIN AND VSE 



73. Barley is a grain, or cereal, that grows very much like 
wheat. However, it is hardier than wheat or any other cereals and 
may be grown through a greater range of climates. Barley has been 
cultivated from the most ancient times ; in fact, its cultivation can be 
traced as far back as man's occupations have been recorded. The 
grain of this cereal has also played an important part in the advance- 
ment of man, for, according to history, some of the present weights 
and measures originated from it. Thus, the Troy weight grain is said 
to have been first fixed by finding the average weight of a barley 
grain, and the inch of linear measure, by placing three grains of 
barley end to end. 

74. Although several varieties of barley have been cultivated 
as food from the earliest times, the grain is now used principally in 
the manufacture of malt. In this form, it is used for the malting of 
foods and in the making of alcoholic liquors. To produce malt, the 
barley grains are moistened and allowed to sprout, and during this 
process of sprouting the starch of the barley is changed to sugar. 
The grains are then dried, and the sprouts, which are called malt 
sprouts, are broken off and sold as cattle food. The grain that 
remains, which is really malt, is then crushed and combined with 
other grains for use as malted cereal food. When barley is used to 
make malt, or fermented, liquors, it is soaked in water, which absorbs 
the sugar in it; then yeast is added, and this produces alcohol by 
causing the fermentation of the sugar. 

75. In the United States, pearl barley is the name applied to the 
most common form of barley used as food. In this form, the layer 
of bran is removed from the outside of the barley grain, but no 
change is made in the grain itself. Pearl barley is used for soups 
and as a breakfast cereal, but for whatever purpose it is employed 
it requires very long cooking to make it palatable. Very often the 
water in which a small amount of pearl barley has been cooked for 
a long time is used to dilute the milk given to a child who has indi- 
gestion or who is not able to take whole milk. 



36 CEREALS § 3 



RBCIPES FOR BARLEY 

76. Pearl Barley. — As a breakfast cereal, possibly the only 
satisfactory way in which to prepare pearl barley is to cook it in a 
double boiler, although after it is cooked in this way it may, of 
course, be used to prepare other breakfast dishes. Barley is not 
liked by everybody; nevertheless, it is an excellent food and its 
nature is such that even after long cooking it remains so firm as to 
require thorough mastication, which is the first great step in the 
digestion of starchy foods. 

Pearl Barley 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. pearl barley 4i c. boiling water 

1 tsp. salt 
Look the barley over carefully and remove any foreign particles 
it may contain. Add it to the boiling salted water, and cook it 
directly over the flame for 10 minutes. Then place it in a double 
boiler and cook for 3 to 4 hours. For the barley to be cooked prop- 
erly, the water should be completely absorbed. Serve hot with 
cream or milk and sugar. 

77. Pearl Barley With Fruit. — Cooked barley does not con- 
tain very much flavor. Therefore, if a more tasty dish is desired, it 
is usually necessary to add something, such as fruit, that will improve 
the flavor. Various fruits may be used with barley, as is shown in 
the accompanying recipe. 

Pearl Barley With Fruit 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. pearl barley 5 c. boiling water 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. dates, figs, or prunes 

Examine the barley to see that it contains no foreign matter, and 
then put it to cook in the boiling water to which the salt has beei 
added. After cooking directly over the flame for 10 minutes, place 
it in a double boiler and cook it for 3 to 4 hours. If dates are to be 
used, wash them in warm water, remove the seeds, and cut each into 
four pieces. In the case of figs, soak them in hot water for J hour 
and then cut them into small pieces. If prunes are desired, stew 
them as explained in Art. 71, and when the seeds are removed cut 
them into small pieces. Add the fruit to the barley 10 or 15 minutes 
before removing it from the stove. Serve hot with cream or milk 
and sugar. 



§ 3 CEREALS 37 

78. Left-Over Barley. — Cooked barley that is left over from 
a meal should not be wasted. That which has been cooked without 
fruit may be added to meat stock or used with vegetables for soup. 
Also, cooked barley that has had time to set and become stiff may 
be sauted in butter until it is slightly brown. When served with 
meat gravy, barley prepared in this manner makes a very appetizing 
and satisfying luncheon dish. 

RYE, BUCKWHEAT, AND MILLET 

79. Rye is a grain that grows very much like wheat, but it can 
be cultivated in poorer soil and colder climates than this cereal. It 
is not used alone to any great extent for anything except the making 
of bread, but it is particularly well adapted for this purpose, since 
it contains a large amount of gluten, the food substance necessary 
for successful bread making, and, like wheat, will make yeast bread 
when used alone. Bread made of rye flour has a dark color and a 
peculiar flavor, and while these characteristics make it unpopular 
with some persons it is used extensively by certain classes, especially 
persons from foreign countries. Besides its use for bread, rye is 
frequently combined with other cereals in the manufacture of ready- 
to-eat cereal foods. 

80. Buckwheat is used less extensively than any of the other 
cereals already mentioned, but it has an advantage over them in that 
it thrives in soil that is too poor for any other crop. The buckwheat 
plant grows to a height of about 2 feet and blossoms with a white 
flower. Its seeds, which are three-cornered in shape, bear a close 
resemblance to beechnuts, and because of this peculiar similarity, 
this cereal was originally called beech wheat. Practically the only 
use to which buckwheat is put is to grind it into very fine flour for 
griddle cakes, recipes for which are given in another Section. 

81. Millet as a cereal food finds practically no use in the United 
States; in fact, in this country it is grown almost exclusively for 
cattle food, the stalk of the plant being large and juicy and contain- 
ing a considerable amount of food. The seed of this plant furnishes 
the smallest grain known for use as food, and because of its size it is 
very hard to gather. Millet, however, is used extensively by some 
of the people of Southern Asia and India, who depend on it very 
largely, since, in some localities, it forms their only cereal food. In 
these countries, it is ground into flour and used for makin? bread. 



38 CEREALS § 3 



PREPARED, OR READY-TO-EAT, CEREALS 

83. All the cereals that have been discussed up to this point 
require cooking; but there are many varieties of cereal food on the 
market that are ready to eat and therefore need no further prepara- 
tion. Chief among these are the cereal foods known as flakes. 
These are first made by cooking the grain, then rolling it between 
rollers, and finally toasting it. The grains that are treated in this 
way for the preparation of flake foods are wheat, corn, rye, and rice. 
It is well to remember this fact, because the trade name does not 
always indicate the kind of grain that has been used to make the 
food. In another form in which cereals, principally wheat, appear 
on the market, they are cooked, shredded, pressed into biscuits, and 
then toasted. Again, cereals are made into loaves with the use of 
yeast, like bread, and after being thoroughly baked, are ground into 
small pieces. Wheat generally forms the basis of these preparations, 
and to it are added such other grains as rye and barley. 

83. The toasting of cereals improves their flavor very materially 
and at the same time increases their digestibility. In fact, cereals 
that have been subjected to this process are said to be predigested, 
because the starch granules that have been browned in the toasting 
are changed into dextrine, and this is one of the stages through 
which they must pass in their process of digestion in the body. 
However, the housewife should not allow herself to be influenced 
unduly by what is said about all prepared cereals, because the manu- 
facturer, who has depended largely on advertising for the sale of his 
product, sometimes becomes slightly overzealous and makes state- 
ments that will bear questioning. For instance, some of these foods 
are claimed to be muscle builders, but every one should remember 
that, with the exception of rye and wheat, which build up the tissues 
to a certain extent, the cereals strengthen the muscles in only a slight 
degree. Others of these foods are said to be nerve and brain foods, 
but it should be borne in mind that no food acts directly on the nerves 
or the brain. In reality, only those foods which keep the body men- 
tally and physically in good condition have an effect on the nerves 
and the brain, and this at best is an indirect effect. 



1 3 CEREALS 39 



SERVING CEREALS 

84. Although, as is shown by the recipes that have been given, 
cereals may have a place in practically all meals that the housewife 
is called on to prepare, they are used more frequently for breakfast 
than for any other meal. When a cereal forms a part of this meal, 
it should, as a rule, be served immediately after the fruit, provided 
the breakfast is served in courses. Many persons, of course, like 
fresh fruit served with cooked or dry cereal, and, in such an event, 
the fruit and cereal courses should be combined. A banana sliced 
over flakes or a few spoonfuls of berries or sliced peaches placed 
on top afford a pleasing change from the usual method of serving 
cereals. Another way in which to lend variety to the cereal and at 
the same time add nourishment to the diet is to serve a poached egg 
on top of the shredded-wheat biscuit or in a nest of corn flakes, 
especially if they have been previously heated. In fact, any of the 
dry cereals become more appetizing if they are heated thoroughly in 
a slow oven and then allowed to cool, as this process freshens them 
by driving off the moisture that they absorb and that makes them 
tough. 

To add to both dry and cooked cereals protein and fat, or the food 
elements in which they are not so high, milk or cream is usually 
served with them. Of these dairy products, which may be served 
hot or cold, milk adds more protein than cream, and cream more fat 
than milk. Some persons, however, who do not care for milk and 
cream or cannot take them, substitute a little butter for them or find 
fruit juice a very good accompaniment, especially to a dry cereal. 
Sugar is jgenerally served with both kinds of cereals, as the majority 
of persons prefer them slightly sweet ; but there is no logical reason 
for its use except to add flavor. 



ITALIAN PASTES 



PREPARATION, VARIETIES, AND COMPOSITION 

85. In addition to the cereals that have already been discussed, 
macaroni and foods of a similar nature are entitled to a place in this 
Section, because they are made from wheat flour and are therefore 
truly cereal products. These foods, which are commonly referred to 
as Italian pastes, originated in Italy. In that country they were 

W I— C 1—10 



40 CEREALS § 3 

made from a flour called semolina, which is derived from a native 
wheat that is very hard and contains more protein than is required 
for the making of ordinary dough mixtures. Later, when the manu- 
facture of these foods was taken up in the United States, the flour 
for them had to be imported from Italy; but it has since been dis- 
covered that flour made from the variety of wheat called durum, 
which is grown in the spring-wheat territory of this country, can be 
used for producing these pastes. In fact, this kind of flour has 
proved to be so successful that it now takes the place of what was 
formerly imported. 

86. To produce the Italian pastes, the wheat, from which the 
bran has been removed, is ground into flour. This flour is made into 
a stiff dough, which is rolled into sheets and forced over rods, 
usually of metal, or made into a mass and forced over rods, and 
allowed to dry in the air. When sufficiently dry, the rods are 
removed, leaving slender tubes, or sticks, that have holes through the 
center. Because of the manufacturing processes involved in the pro- 
duction of these foods for market, they are higher in price than some 
cereals, but their value lies in the fact that they are practically 
unperishable and are easily prepared and digested. 

87. Italian pastes are of several varieties, chief among which are 
macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli. Macaroni is the largest in cir- 
cumference; spaghetti, a trifle smaller; and vermicelli, very small 
and without a hole through the center. These pastes and variations 
of them are made from the same dough; therefore, the tests for 
determining the quality of one applies to all of them. These tests 
pertain to their color, the way in which they break, and the manner 
in which they cook. To be right, they should be of an even, creamy 
color ; if they look gray or are white or streaked with white, they are 
of inferior quality. When they are broken into pieces, they should 
break off perfectly straight ; if they split up lengthwise, they contain 
weak places due to streaks. All the varieties should, upon boiling, 
hold their shape and double in size ; in case they break into pieces 
and flatten, they are of poor quality. 

88. Since the Italian pastes are made from wheat, their food 
substances are similar to those of wheat. As in other wheat prod- 
ucts, protein is found in them in the form of gluten, but, owing to 



§ 3 CEREALS 41 

the variety of wheat used for them, it occurs in greater proportion 
in these foods than in most wheat products. In fact, the Italian 
pastes are so high in protein, or tissue-building material, that they 
very readily take the place of meat. Unlike meat, however, they con- 
tain carbohydrates in the form of wheat starch. They do not contain 
much fat or mineral salts, though, being lower in these food sub- 
stances than many of the other foods made from wheat. 



RECIPES FOR ITALIAN PASTES 

89. In nearly all recipes for macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli, 
as well as the numerous varieties of these foods, the first steps in their 
preparation for the table are practically the same, for all of these 
foods must be cooked to a certain point and in a certain way before 
they can be used in the numerous ways possible to prepare them. 
Therefore, in order that success may be met in the preparation of 
the dishes that are made from these foods, these underlying prin- 
ciples should be thoroughly understood. 

In the first place, it should be borne in mind that while the time 
required to cook the Italian pastes depends on their composition and 
dryness, the average length of time is about 30 minutes. Another 
important thing to remember is that they should always be put to 
cook in boiling water that contains 2 teaspoonfuls of salt to each 
cupful of macaroni, spaghetti, or vermicelli, and that they should 
be kept boiling until the cooking is done, for if the pieces are not in 
constant motion they will settle and burn. Tests may be applied to 
determine whether these foods have been cooked sufficiently. Thus, 
if a fork passes through them easily or they crush readily on being 
pressed between the fingers and the thumb, they are done, but as long 
as they feel hard and elastic they have not cooked enough. 

In the majority of recipes here given, macaroni is specified, but 
spaghetti, vermicelli, or any of the fancy Italian pastes may be sub- 
stituted for the macaroni if one of them is preferred. It should 
also be remembered that any of these, when cut into small pieces, 
may be used in soups or served with sauce or gravy. 

90. Macaroni With Cream Sauce. — Possibly the simplest 
way in which to prepare macaroni is with cream sauce, as is 
explained in the accompanying recipe. Such a sauce not only 
increases the food value of any Italian paste, but improves its flavor. 



42 CEREALS § 3 

Macaroni prepared in this way may be used as the principal dish of 
a light meal, as it serves to take the place of meat. 

Macakoni With Cream Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. macaroni 3 tsp. salt 

3 qt. boiling water i c. crumbs 

Cream Sauce 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. flour l| c. milk 

1 tsp. salt 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, add it to the salted boiling 
water, and cook it until it is tender. To prepare the sauce, melt the 
butter in a saucepan, add the flour, salt, and pepper, stir until smooth, 
and gradually add the milk, which must be hot, stirring rapidly so 
that no lumps form. Cook the cream sauce until it thickens and 
then add it to the macaroni. Pour all into a baking dish, sprinkle 
the bread or cracker crumbs over the top, dot with butter, and bake 
until the crumbs are brown. Serve hot. 

91. Macaroni With Eggs. — Since macaroni is high in protein, 
it takes the place of meat in whatever form it is served, but when it is 
prepared with eggs it becomes an unusually good meat substitute. 
Therefore, when eggs are added as in the following recipe, no meat 
should be served in the same meal. 

Macaroni With Eggs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. macaroni 2 Tb. flour 

2 qt. boiling water 1 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. salt i tsp. pepper 

1^ c. milk 4 hard-boiled eggs 

2 Tb. butter ^ c. crumbs 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, add it to the boiling salted 
water, and cook it until tender. Make a cream, or white, sauce of the 
milk, butter, flour, salt, and pepper as explained in the recipe given 
in Art. 90. When the macaroni is tender, drain it and arrange a 
layer on the bottom of a baking dish, with a layer of sliced, hard- 
boiled eggs on top. Fill the dish with alternate layers of macaroni 
and eggs, pour the sauce over all, and sprinkle the crumbs over the 
top. Then place the dish in the oven and bake the food until the 
crumbs are brown. Serve hot. 



§ 3 CEREALS 43 

93. Macaroni Witli Tomato and Bacon. — Macaroni is a 
food that forms an excellent basis for other foods, which, because 
of their more piquant nature, are much used for flavoring. In the 
recipe here given tomatoes and bacon are used for this purpose. 
Besides adding to the flavor, the bacon supplies the macaroni with 
fat, a food substance in which it is low. 

Macaroni With Tomato and Bacon 

(SuiBcient to Serve Six) 

1 c. macaroni 2 c. canned tomatoes 

2 qt. boiling water 8 thin slices bacon 

2 tsp. salt 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths and cook it in the boiling 
salted water until it is tender. Place a layer of the cooked macaroni 
on the bottom of a baking dish; over this layer put 1 cupful of the 
tomatoes, and on top of them spread four slices of bacon. Then add 
another layer of the macaroni, the other cupful of tomatoes, and a 
third layer of macaroni. On top of this layer, place the remaining 
four slices of bacon, and then bake the food for i hour in a slow 
oven. Serve hot. 

93. Macaroni With. Cheese. — Cheese is combined with maca- 
roni probably more often than any other food. It supplies consider- 
able flavor to the macaroni and at the same time provides fat and 
additional protein. The cooking operation is practically the same as 
that just given for macaroni with tomatoes and bacon. 
Macaroni With Cheese 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. macaroni i tsp. pepper 

3 qt. boiling water i tsp. paprika 
3 tsp. salt H c. milk 

1^ Tb. butter 1 c. grated or finely 

1^ Tb. flour cut cheese 

1 tsp. salt i c. crumbs 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths and cook it until it is tender 
in the 3 quarts of boiling water to which 3 teaspoonfuls of salt has 
been added. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, the 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, the pepper, and the paprika, stir until smooth, and 
then gradually add the milk, which should be hot. Allow to cook 
until it thickens. Arrange the cooked macaroni in layers, pouring 
the sauce and sprinkling salt and cheese over each layer. Then 
cover the top layer with the crumbs and bake the food in a moderate 
oven for i hour. Serve hot. 



44 



CEREALS 



§3 



94. Macaroni With Cheese and Tomato. — ^Although the 
food combinations given are very satisfactory, a dish that is 
extremely appetizing to many persons may be made by combining 




Fig. 5 

both cheese and tomato with macaroni. Such a nutritious combina- 
tion, which is illustrated in Fig. 5, can be used as the principal dish 
of a heavy meal. 

Macaroni With Cheese and Tomato 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. macaroni 1 c. grated cheese 

2 qt. boiling water 2 Tb. butter 
2 tsp. salt i tsp. pepper 
li c. canned tomatoes 1 tsp. salt 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths and cook it until it is tender 
in the boiling water to which 2 teaspoonfuls of salt has been added. 
Put a layer of the cooked macaroni on the bottom of a baking dish, 
pour one-half of the tomatoes and one-third of the cheese over 
it, dot with butter, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Then add 
another layer of macaroni, the remainder of the tomatoes, one-third 
more of the cheese, butter, salt, and pepper. Finally, arrange 
another layer of macaroni, put the remaining cheese and some butter 
on top of it, and bake the food for ^ hour in a moderate oven. Serve 
hot. 

95. Macaroni Italian Style. — If small quantities of fried or 
boiled ham remain after a meal, they can be used with macaroni to 
make a very tasty dish known as macaroni Italian style. As ham 



§ 3 CEREALS 45 

is a highly seasoned meat, it improves the flavor of the macaroni 
and at the same time adds nutrition to the dish. 
Macaroni Italian Style 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. macaroni f c. grated cheese 

2 qt. boiHng water 1 tsp. salt 

2 tsp. salt 4 tsp. paprika 

2 Tb. butter ^ c.finely chopped, cold 

2 Tb. flour boiled ham 

1^ c. scalded milk i c. crumbs 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths and cook it in the boiling 
water to which has been added 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Drain, 
and then reheat it in a white sauce made of the butter, flour, and 
milk. Add the cheese and season with salt and paprika. Arrange 
in layers in a baking dish, placing the cold ham between each two 
layers of macaroni and having the top layer of macaroni, sprinkle 
the crumbs on top of the upper layer, and bake the food until the 
crumbs are brown. Garnish with parsley and serve. 

96. Macaroni and Kidney Beans. — The combination of 
canned kidney beans and macaroni is a rather unusual one, but it 
makes a very appetizing dish, especially when canned tomatoes are 
added, as in the recipe here given. 

Macaroni and Kidney Beans 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. macaroni f c. hot milk 

2 qt. water J c. canned tomatoes 
2 tsp. salt 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. canned kidney beans 

Cook the macaroni in the salted water until it is tender and then 
drain it. Prepare the sauce by melting the butter in a saucepan, 
rubbing the flour into it until a smooth paste is formed, and then 
adding slowly the hot milk. Cook this sauce for 5 minutes. Force 
the tomato through a sieve, turn it into the hot sauce, and season all 
with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the macaroni and the 
kidney beans, and then heat all together. When the food is thor- 
oughly heated, turn it into a dish and serve. 

97. Spaghetti With Cheese and Tomato Sauce. — The 

accompanying recipe for spaghetti with cheese and tomato sauce will 
serve to illustrate that this form of Italian paste may be prepared 



46 CEREALS § 3 

in the same manner as macaroni ; that is, to show how simple it is to 
substitute one kind of Italian paste for another. Any of these pastes, 
as has been mentioned, is especially appetizing when prepared with 
cheese and tomato. 

Spaghetti With Cheese and Tomato Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. spaghetti 2 Tb. butter 

2 qt. boiling water 2 Tb. flour 

2 tsp. salt i c. grated cheese 

1 can tomatoes 1 tsp. salt 

1 small onion, chopped J tsp. pepper 
i c. water 

Boil the spaghetti in the 2 quarts of boiling water to which has 
been added 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and after it is tender drain off the 
water. Then proceed to make the sauce. Boil the tomatoes and the 
chopped onion in the J cupful of water for 10 minutes. Strain this 
mixture and to it add the butter and the flour, which should first be 
mixed with a little cold water. Cook this until it thickens and then 
add the cheese, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and the pepper. Pour the 
entire mixture over the cooked spaghetti, reheat, and serve. 

98. Left-Over Italian Pastes. — No cooked Italian paste of 
any kind should ever be wasted. Any left-over macaroni, spaghetti, 
or vermicelli can be reheated and served as it was originally or it can 
be used in soups. If a sufficient amount is left after a meal, a good 
plan is to utilize it in croquettes. To make such croquettes, chop 
the left-over food fine and hold it together with a thick white sauce 
or with raw eggs. Then form it into croquettes of the desired shape, 
roll these in bread or cracker crumbs, and brown them in butter. 



§ 3 CEREALS 47 



BREAKFAST MENU 

99. A well-planned breakfast menu is here given, with the inten- 
tion that it be prepared and used. This menu, as will be observed, 
calls for at least one of the dishes that have been described, as well 
as some that have not. Directions for the latter, however, are given, 
so that no difficulty will be experienced in preparing the menu. After 
the recipes have been followed out carefully, it will be necessary to 
report on the success that is had with each dish and to send this 
report in with the answers to the Examination Questions at the end 
of this Section. The recipes are intended to serve six persons, but 
they may be changed if the family consists of fewer or more persons 
by merely regulating the amounts to suit the required number, as is 
explained elsewhere. 



Berries and Cream or Oranges 

Cream of Wheat or Rolled Oats and Cream 

Scrambled Eggs Buttered Toast 

Cocoa or Coffee 



Scrambled Eggs 

5 eggs i c. milk 

i tsp. salt 2 Tb. butter 

I tsp. pepper 

Beat the eggs slightly and add the salt, pepper, and milk. Heat 
a pan, put in the butter, and, when it is melted, turn in the mixture. 
Cook this mixture until it thickens as much as desired, being careful 
to stir it and to scrape it from the bottom of the pan, so that it will 
not burn. Remove from the pan and serve hot. 

Buttered Toast 

Bread for toasting should as a rule be 48 hours or more old. Cut 
the desired number of slices, making each about i to ^ inch thick. 
Place the slices on a toaster over a bed of clear coals or on a broiler 
under a slow gas flame. Turn the bread frequently until it assumes 



48 CEREALS § 3 

an even light brown on both sides. Remove from the heat, spread 
each slice with butter, and serve while hot and crisp. 

Cocoa 

2i c. scalded milk J tsp. salt 

3 Tb. cocoa 2^ c. boiling water 

3 Tb. sugar 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Mix the cocoa, sugar, and salt. 
Stir the boiling water into this mixture gradually, and let it boil for 
several minutes over the fire. Then turn the mixture into the hot 
milk in the double boiler, and beat all with an egg beater for several 
minutes. A drop of vanilla added to the cocoa just before serving 
adds to its flavor. 

Boiled Coffee 

Scald a clean coffee pot, and into it put 12 level tablespoonfuls of 
ground coffee. Add several crushed egg shells or the white of one 
egg, pour in 1 cupful of cold water, and shake until the whole is well 
mixed. Add 5 cupfuls of freshly boiling water and put over the fire 
to boil. After the coffee has boiled for 5 minutes, pour i cupful of 
cold water down the spout. Allow it to stand for a few minutes 
where it will keep hot and then serve. 



CEREALS 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) Mention the eight cereals that are used for food. (6) How may 
the universal consumption of cereals be accounted for? 

(2) (o) Explain why cereals and cereal products are economical foods. 
(&) What factors should be considered in the selection of cereals? 

(3) (a) Why are cereals not easily contaminated? (6) What care in 
storage should be given to both prepared and unprepared cereals? 

(4) (a) Explain briefly the composition of cereals. (6) Describe the 
structure of cereal grains. 

(5) What food substance is found in the greatest proportion in cereals ? 

(6) What characteristics of cereals make them valuable in the diet? 

(7) What material, besides the food substances, is always present in cereals, 
and what are its purposes ? 

(8) What is the purpose of cooking cereals ? 

(9) (o) What occurs when starch is cooked in a liquid? (b) Describe 
the process of setting a cereal. 

(10) (o) Mention the various methods of cooking cereals. (6) What are 
the advantages of the double-boiler method? 

(11) (a) What influences the proportion of water required and the length 
of time necessary to cook cereals? (&) Is it an advantage to cook cereals for 
a long time? Tell why. 

(12) Mention the cereals that you would use in winter and tell why you 
would use them. 

(13) (o) Of what advantage is it to add dates to cream of wheat? 
(6) Mention some of the ways in which left-over wheat cereals may be 
utilized. 

(14) (o) Explain the three methods of cooking rice, giving the proportion 
of water to rice in each one. (fe) How should rice grains look when they 
are properly cooked ? 

(15) Mention several ways in which to utilize left-over rolled oats. 



2 CEREALS § 3 

(16) (a) What advantages have ready-to-eat cereals over unprepared 
ones? (b) Tell why cereals that have been toasted are said to be pre- 
digested. 

(17) (o) What is the advantage of serving milk or cream with cereals? 
(6) How may variety be secured in the serving of cereals? 

(18) (o) How are Italian pastes made? (6) Mention and describe the 
three principal varieties of Italian paste, (c) What tests can be applied to 
judge the quality of these foods? 

(19) (a) Explain the first steps in cooking macaroni. (6) How much 
does macaroni increase upon being boiled ? 

(20) (a) Why may macaroni be substituted for meat in the diet? 
(6) What foods used in the preparation of macaroni make it a better meat 
substitute ? 



REPORT Ojr MENU 

After trying out the breakfast menu given in the text, send with your 
answers to the Examination Questions a report of your success. In making out 
your report, simply write the name of the food and describe its condition by 
means of the terms specified in the following list? 

Cream of Wheat: thin? thick? lumpy? smooth? salty? well flavored? 

Rolled Oats: thin? thick? lumpy? smooth? salty? well flavored? 

Scrambled Eggs: dry? moist? watery? salty? well flavored? 

Buttered Toast: thin? thick? crisp? soggy? browned? not sufficiently 
toasted? unevenly browned? 

Cocoa : smooth ? strong ? weak ? thick ? scum formed on top ? 

Coffee: strong? weak? muddy? clear? 



BREAD 

BREAD-MAKING REQUIREMENTS 



IMPORTANCE OP BREAD AS POOD 

1. Bread is sometimes defined as any form of baked flour, but 
as the word is commonly understood it means only those forms of 
baked flour which contain some leavening substance that produces 
fermentation. The making of bread has come down through the 
ages from the simplest methods practiced by the most primitive 
peoples to the more elaborate processes of the present day. In 
truth, to study the history of bread making would amount to study- 
ing the accounts of the progress that has been made by the human 
race. Still, in order that the production of bread from suitable 
ingredients may be fully understood, it will be well to note the 
advancement that has been made. 

2. In the earliest times, what was used as bread was made in 
much the same way as it is today by many uncivilized and semicivil- 
ized people. The grain was ground between stones, usually by hand, 
and then mixed with water to form a dough; then this dough was 
formed into flat, compact cakes and baked in hot ashes, the result 
being a food very difficult to digest. Later on, some one discovered 
that by allowing the dough to stand until fermentation took place 
and then mixing it with new dough, the whole mass would rise, and 
also that by subjecting this mass to the action of heat, that is, baking 
it, the mass would be held in place and become a loaf of raised bread 
that was lighter and, of course, more digestible. It was this discov- 
ery that led up to the modern bread-making processes, in which sub- 
stances known as leavening agents, or ferments, are used to make 
bread light, or porous. Chief among the substances is yeast, a micro- 
scopic plant that produces fermentation under favorable conditions. 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. At-L RIGHTS RESERVED 



2 BREAD § 4 

Indeed, so important is this ferment that, in the United States, when- 
ever the term bread is used alone it means yeast, or leavened, bread, 
whereas, when other leavening agents are used, the bread is referred 
to as hot bread, or quick bread, as is fully explained in another Sec- 
tion. It will be well to note this fact, for in all cases throughout 
these cookery lessons yeast, or leavened, bread is always meant when 
the term bread is used alone. 

3. References in the history of the ancient Hebrews show that 
bread made light by means of fermentation was known thousands 
of years ago, but it was not until after the accidental discovery of 
the action of yeast that the making of wholesome and digestible 
bread became possible. Through this important advance in the 
making of bread came a demand for better grains and more improved 
methods of making flour. Indeed, so much attention has been given 
to these matters that at present the three important processes relating 
to breadmaking — the raising of wheat, the milling of flour, and the 
manufacture of yeast — are carefully and scientifically performed. 
These industries, together with the commercial manufacture of 
bread, occupy an important place in the business of practically all 
civilized nations. 

4. Among people who are not highly civilized, bread forms the 
chief article of food and often almost the entire diet, even at the 
present time; but as man progresses in civilization he seems to 
require a greater variety of food, and he accordingly devises means 
of getting it. Since bread is only one of the many foods he finds at 
his disposal, it does not assume a place of so much importance in 
present-day meals as it formerly did. However, it still makes up a 
sufficient proportion of the food of every family to warrant such 
careful and extensive study, as well as such mastery of the processes 
involved, that the housewife may present to her family only the best 
quality of this food. 

Although it does not have such extensive use as it had in the past, 
bread of some description, whether in the form of loaves, biscuits, 
or rolls, forms a part of each meal in every household. This fact 
proves that, with the exception of milk, it is more frequently eaten 
than any other food. A food so constantly used contributes very 
largely to the family's health if it is properly made. However, there 
is possibly nothing in the whole range of domestic life that so dis- 
turbs the welfare of the entire family as an inferior quality of this 



§ 4 BREAD 3 

food, which, besides proving detrimental to the digestion, adds mate- 
rially to the household expense. 

5. Of course, in many bakeries, bread of an excellent quality is 
made in a perfectly hygienic manner, and to be able to procure such 
bread is a wonderful help to the busy housewife or to the woman 
who finds it inconvenient to make her own bread. Still, practically 
every person enjoys "home-made" bread so much more than what is 
made commercially that the housewife will do well to make a careful 
study of this branch of cookery. If it is properly understood, it 
will not be found difficult; but the woman who takes it up must 
manifest her interest to master a few essential principles and to 
follow them explicitly. After she has obtained the knowledge that 
she must possess, experience and practice will give her the skill 
necessary to prevent poor results and a consequent waste of material. 



INGREDIENTS FOR BREAD MAKING 



INGREDIENTS REQUIRED 

6. Possibly the first essential to a correct knowledge of bread 
making is familiarity with the ingredients required. These are few 
in number, being merely flour, liquid, which may be either milk or 
water, sugar, salt, and yeast ; but the nature of these, particularly the 
flour and the yeast, is such as to demand careful consideration. It 
will be admitted that the more the housewife knows about bread- 
making materials and processes the greater will be her success in 
this work. Likewise, it is extremely important that this food be 
made just as wholesome as possible, for next to milk and eggs, bread 
ranks as a perfect food, containing all the elements necessary for the 
growth of the body. This does not mean, though, that any of these 
foods used as the sole article of diet would be ideal, but that each 
one of them is of such composition that it alone would sustain life 
for a long period of time. 

FLOUR 

7. Grains Used for Flour. — ^As has been pointed out else- 
where, numerous grains are raised by man, but only two of them, 
namely, wheat and rye, are used alone for the making of yeast, or 
leavened, bread. The other grains, such as corn, rice, and oats. 



i BREAD § 4 

produce a flat, unleavened cake, so they are seldom used for bread 
making unless they are mixed with white flour. Wheat and rye have 
been used for bread making for a very long time, and their universal 
use today is due to the fact that they contain considerable protein in 
the form of gluten. This is the substance that produces elasticity in 
the dough mixture, a condition that is absolutely essential in the 
making of raised bread. In fact, the toughness and elasticity of 
bread dough are what make it possible for the dough to catch and 
hold air and gas and thus produce a light, porous loaf. 

8. Of these two grains, rye is used less extensively in the 
United States for the making of bread than wheat, although in some 
countries, particularly the inland countries of Continental Europe, 
considerable use is made of it. Its limited use here is undoubtedly 
due to the fact that when rye is used alone it makes a moist, sticky 
bread, which is considered undesirable by most persons. The reason 
for this is that, although rye contains a sufficient quantity of gluten, 
this substance is not of the proper quality to make the elastic dough 
that produces a light, spongy loaf. Therefore, when rye is used, 
wheat flour is generally mixed with it. The result is a bread having 
a good texture, but the dark color and the typical flavor that rye 
produces. 

9. Wheat, the other grain used for bread making, is an annual 
grass of unknown origin. It is used more extensively for food than 
any other grain. In fact, it has been estimated that the average 
quantity consumed by each person is about 6 bushels a year, and of 
this amount by far the greater part is used in the making of bread. 
Since so much of this grain is used as food, considerable time and 
effort have been spent in developing those qualities which are most 
desirable for the purpose to which wheat is put and in perfecting 
the processes whereby wheat flour of a good quality may be obtained. 

This grain is particularly well adapted for bread making because 
of the nature of the proteins it contains and the relative proportions 
of these. These proteins, which occur in the wheat grain in the 
form of gluten, are known as gliadin and glutenin. The gliadin 
imparts elasticity and tenacity, or toughness, to the gluten, and the 
glutenin gives it strength. It is not, however, so much the quantity 
of gluten in the wheat grain that actually determines the quality of 
flour as the fact that the two varieties must be present in the proper 



§ 4 BREAD 5 

proportions in order for the gluten to have the properties desired 
for bread making. 

Wheat consists of numerous varieties, but only two of these are 
grown and used in the United States, namely, spring, or hard, wheat 
and winter, or soft, wheat. 

10. Spring, or hard, wlieat is so named because it is sown in 
the spring of the year and is very tough or firm. Before this variety 
was known, the wheat used for bread making was not ideal, and the 
efforts that were made to produce a grain that would be suitable for 
this purpose resulted in this variety. To obtain its particular com- 
position, spring wheat must be grown under suitable climatic and soil 
conditions. In North America, it grows in the north central part of 
the United States and along the southern border of Canada. This 
variety, which is harvested in the late summer, is characterized by a 
large proportion of gluten and a correspondingly small amount of 
starch. It is the presence of the gluten that accounts for the hard- 
ness of the spring-wheat grain and the tough, elastic quality of the 
dough made from the spring- wheat flour. Bread dough, to be right, 
must have this quality, so that the flour made from spring wheat is 
used almost exclusively for bread; whereas, for cake and pastry, 
which should have a tender, unelastic texture, flour made from soft 
wheat is more satisfactory. 

11. Winter, or soft, wlieat derives its name from the fact 
that it is planted in the autumn and is soft in texture. It is of less 
importance in the making of bread than spring, or hard, wheat, but 
it is the kind that has been grown for centuries and from which the 
varieties of spring wheat have been cultivated. It is a softer grain 
than spring wheat, because it contains less gluten and more starch. 
The flour made from it does not produce so elastic a dough mixture 
as does that made from the other variety of wheat ; consequently, the 
finished product, such as bread, rolls, etc., is likely to be more tender 
and more friable, or crumbly. It is for this reason that winter, or 
soft, wheat is not used extensively for bread, but is employed for 
pastry flour or mixed with spring wheat to make what is called a 
blend flour, which may be used for all purposes. 

12. Structure of Wheat Grain. — In its natural state, wheat 
contains all the food substances required for the nourishment of the 
human body in nearly the proper proportions, and in addition it has 

w i-r i~n 



6 



BREAD § * 



in its composition sufficient cellulose to give it considerable bulk. 
It has been estimated that the average composition of this grain is 

as follows: 

Per Cent. 

Protein 11-9 

Fat 2.1 

Carbohydrates '1" 

Mineral salts l-^ 

Water 10-5 

Cellulose ^^ 

Total 100.0 

So that the composition of wheat and the making of wheat flour 
may be more clearly understood, it will be well to observe the structure 

§of a grain, or kernel, of wheat, which is 
shown greatly enlarged in Fig. 1. At a is 
shown the germ of the young plant, which 
remains undeveloped until the grain is 
c planted. This part contains practically all the 
, fat found in the grain, some starch, and a 
e small quantity of protein. At h is shown the 
f inside of the kernel, or the endosperm, as it is 
J called, which is composed of starch granules 
interlaced with protein and mineral salts. 
Surrounding these, as at c, is a layer of 
— coarse cells that contain mineral matter and 

^°- 1 protein, and between these cells and the outer 

husk, as at d, e, f, and g, are layers of bran, which are com- 
posed of cellulose and contain mineral salts and small quantities of 
starch and protein. Enveloping the entire kernel is a husk, or bran 
covering, h. This forms a protection to the rest of the grain, but it 
cannot be used as food, because it is composed almost entirely of 
cellulose, which is practically indigestible. The center of the grain, 
or the heart, is the softest part and consists of cells filled with starch. 
From this soft center the contents of the grain gradually grow harder 
toward the outside, the harder part and that containing the most 
gluten occurring next to the bran covering. 

13. Milling of Wheat Flour. — Great advances have been 
made in the production of flour from wheat, and these are very good 
evidence of man's progress in the way of invention. The earliest 



§ 4 BREAD 7 

method consisted in crushing the grain by hand between two stones, 
and from this crude device came the mortar and pestle. A little 
later millstones in the form of thick, heavy disks were brought into 
use for grinding grain. Two of these stones were placed so that 
their surfaces came together, the lower one being stationary and the 
upper one made to revolve. Early grinding apparatus of this kind 
was turned by human power, but this kind of power was first dis- 
placed by domestic animals and later by wind and water. Out of this 
arrangement, which is still used to some extent in small mills, has 
grown the present-day complicated machinery of the roller process, 
by which any part of the grain may be included or rejected. 

14. In the roller process, the grain is crushed between metal 
rolls instead of being ground between stones. It is first screened in 
order to separate all foreign matter from it, and then stored in bins. 
When it is taken from these receptacles, it is put through another 
cleaning process, called scouring, or it is thoroughly washed and 
dried in order to loosen the dirt that clings to it and to free it entirely 
from dust, lint, etc. As soon as it is completely cleansed, it is 
softened by heat and moisture and then passed through a set of 
corrugated rollers, which are adjustable as are the rubber rollers 
of a clothes wringer and which flatten and break the grains. After 
this first crushing, some of the bran is sifted out, while the main 
portion of the grain is put through another set of rollers and crushed 
more finely. During the milling, these processes of crushing the 
grain and removing the bran are repeated from six to nine times, 
each pair of rollers being set somewhat closer than the pair before, 
until the grain is pulverized. After the grain has been thus reduced 
to a powder, it is passed through bolting cloth, which acts as a very 
fine sieve and separates from it any foreign material that may 
remain. The result is a very fine, white flour. 

15. Graham Flour. — Sometimes the entire grain, including 
the bran, germ, etc., is ground fine enough merely for baking pur- 
poses and is used as flour in this form. Such flour is called graham 
flour. It contains all the nutriment, mineral matter, and cellulose of 
the original grain, and is therefore considered valuable as food. 
However, the objection to this kind of flour is that its keeping 
quality is not so good as that of the kinds from which the germ has 
been removed, because the fat contained in the germ is liable to 
become rancid. 



8 BREAD § i 

16. Whole- Wheat Flour. — The best grades of fine white flour 
make bread of excellent quality, but such bread is not so nutritious 
as that made from whole-wheat flour. In the making of this kind 
of flour, some of the choicest varieties of wheat are first moistened 
in order to soften the woody fiber of the bran and are then sifted 
until the outer husk of the grain is removed. After this treatment, 
the grains are dried and then pulverized into various grades of 
so-called whole-wheat flour. The name whole-wheat flour is mislead- 
ing, because it implies that all of the grain is used; whereas, since 
several of the outer layers of bran and the germ are removed in its 
production, whole-wheat flour is merely flour in which practically all 
the gluten and the starch are retained. Because this variety is not 
sifted as are the white flours, it is not so fine as they are ; but it is not 
so coarse as graham flour, nor is bread made from it so dark in color. 
Both graham and whole-wheat flours produce a more wholesome 
bread than any of the varieties of white flour, because they contain 
more of the nutritive elements and mineral salts, which are neces- 
sary in the diet. The bran that is retained in them is not used by the 
body as food, but it adds bulk to the diet and assists in carrying on 
the normal functions of the digestive tract. 

17. Selection of Flour. — If a large quantity of flour must be 
bought at one time, as, for instance, enough to last through an entire 
season, it is advisable to test it carefully before the purchase is made, 
so as to avoid the danger of getting a poor grade. As a rule, how- 
ever, housewives are obliged to purchase only a small quantity at a 
time. In such cases, it will not be necessary to test the flour before 
purchasing it, provided a standard make is selected. Very often, 
too, a housewife in a small family finds it inconvenient to keep on 
hand a supply of both bread flour and pastry flour. In such an 
event, a blend flour, which, as has been mentioned, is a mixture of 
flour made from spring and winter wheat that will do for all pur- 
poses, is the kind to purchase. While such flour is not ideal for 
either bread or pastry, it serves the purpose of both very well. 

18. Quality of Flour. — Flour is put on the market in various 
grades, and is named according to its quality. The highest grade, or 
best quality, is called high-grade patent; the next grade, bakers'; 
and the next, second-grade patent. The lowest grade, or poorest 
quality, is called red dog. This grade is seldom sold for food pur- 
poses, but it is used considerably for the making of paste. 



§ 4 BREAD 9 

The quality of flour used in bread making is of very great impor- 
tance, because flour of poor quality will not, of course, make good 
bread. Every housewife should therefore be familiar with the 
characteristics of good flour and should buy accordingly. 

19. Several tests can be applied to flour to determine its kind 
and its quality. The first test is its color. Bread flour, or flour made 
from spring wheat, is usually of a creamy-white color, while pastry 
flour, or that made from winter wheat, is more nearly pure white 
in color. A dark, chalky-white, or gray color indicates that the flour 
is poor in quality. The second test is the feel of the flour. A pinch 
of good bread flour, when rubbed lightly between the thumb and the 
index finger, will be found to be rather coarse and the particles will 
feel sharp and gritty. When good pastry flour is treated in the same 
way, it will feel smooth and powdery. The third test is its adhering 
power. When squeezed tightly in the hand, good bread flour holds 
together in a mass and retains slightly the impression of the fingers ; 
poor bread .flour treated in the same way either does not retain its 
shape or, provided it contains too much moisture, is liable to make 
a damp, hard lump. The odor of flour might also be considered a 
test. Flour must not have a musty odor nor any other odor foreign 
to the normal, rather nutty flavor that is characteristic of flour. 

The bleaching and adulteration of flour are governed by the United 
States laws. Bleaching is permitted only when it does not reduce 
the quality or strength nor conceal any damage or inferiority. Such 
flour must be plainly labeled to show that it has been bleached. 

20. Care of Flour. — There is considerable economy in buying 
flour in large quantities, but unless an adequate storing place can be 
secured, it is advisable to buy only small amounts at a time. Flour 
absorbs odors very readily, so that when it is not bought in barrels 
it should if possible be purchased in moisture-proof bags. Then, 
after it is purchased, it should be kept where it will remain dry and 
will not be accessible to odors, for unless the storage conditions are 
favorable, it will soon acquire an offensive odor and become unfit 
for use. Flour sometimes becomes infested with weevils, or beetles, 
whose presence can be detected by little webs. To prevent the 
entrance of insects and vermin of all kinds, flour should be kept in 
tightly closed bins after it is taken from the barrels or sacks in which 
it is purchased. If newly purchased flour is found to be contami- 
nated with such insects, it should be returned to the dealer. 



10 BREAD § 4 



YEAST 

21. Nature and. Action of Yeast. — How yeast came to be 
discovered is not definitely known, but its discovery is believed to 
have been purely accidental. Some mixture of flour and liquid was 
probably allowed to remain exposed to the air until it fermented and 
then when baked was found to be light and porous. Whatever the 
origin of this discovery was, it is certain that yeast was used hun- 
dreds of years ago and that its action was not at that time understood. 
Even at the present time everything concerning the action of yeast 
is not known; still continued study and observation have brought 
to light enough information to show that yeast is the agency that, 
under favorable conditions, produces light, spongy bread out of a 
flour mixture. 

22. It has been determined that yeast is a microscopic plant 
existing everywhere in the air and in dust ; consequently, it is found 
on all things that are exposed to air or dust. In order that it may 
grow, this plant requires the three things necessary for the growth 
of any plant, namely, food, moisture, and warmth. Carbohydrate 
in the form of sugar proves to be an ideal food for yeast, and 70 to 
90 degrees Fahrenheit is the temperature at which the most rapid 
growth occurs. When these conditions exist and a sufficient amount 
of moisture is provided, yeast grows very rapidly and produces 
fermentation. 

The changes that take place when yeast causes fermentation can 
be detected very readily by observing the fermenting of fruit juice. 
As every housewife knows, the first indication of a ferment in fruit 
juice is the appearance of tiny bubbles, which collect on the sides 
and the bottom of the vessel containing the fruit and then gradually 
rise to the top. These bubbles are a form of gas called carbon- 
dioxide, or carbonic-acid, gas. If, after they appear, the juice is 
tasted, it will be found to be slightly alcoholic and to have a some- 
what sour or acid taste. The gas, the acid, and the alcohol thus pro- 
duced are the three results of the action of the ferment. 

23. When yeast is used in the making of bread out of wheat 
flour, the changes just mentioned take place. To understand the 
action of this plant, it will be necessary to remember that wheat 
contains a large proportion of starch. This substance, however, can- 
not be acted on by the yeast plant; it must first be changed into 



§ 4 BREAD 11 

sugar. The yeast that is added to the flour changes some of the 
starch into sugar and transforms the sugar into alcohol and carbonic- 
acid gas. This gas, which is lighter than the dough, rises, and in its 
efforts to escape expands the elastic, glutinous dough into a mass of 
bubbles with thin walls until the dough is two or three times its 
original bulk. The yeast plants, though, must be well distributed 
throughout the dough ; otherwise, there are likely to be no bubbles in 
some places and large bubbles with thick walls in others. The gas 
thus formed is prevented from escaping by the toughness or the 
elasticity of the gluten, and the spaces that it leaves are what pro- 
duce a light, porous loaf. When the expansion has gone on long 
enough, the formation of gas is checked and the ferment is killed 
by baking the dough in a hot oven. During the baking, the alcohol 
is driven off by heat, some of the starch is browned and forms the 
crust, and so little acid is produced in the short time in which the 
yeast is active that it is not noticeable. 

24. Commercial Yeast. — ^When yeast plants are deprived of 
water and food, they cease to multiply. However, under these con- 
ditions, they may be kept alive so that when water and food are 
again provided they will increase in number and carry on their 
work. Advantage has been taken of these characteristics of yeast, 
for although at one time the making of yeast was entirely a house- 
hold process, it has now, like butter, cheese, canned fruit, etc., 
become a commercial product. The first yeast put on the market 
was collected from the surface of the contents of brewers' vats, 
where it floated in large quantities ; but as this was an impure, unre- 
liable product composed of various kinds of bacteria, it is no longer 
used for the purpose of making bread. At present, yeast is carefully 
grown as a pure yeast culture, or product. It is marketed in such 
a way that when proper food, such as soft dough, or sponge, and a 
favorable temperature are provided, the plants will multiply and act 
on the carbohydrate that they find in the food. In fact, the purpose 
of the well-known process of "setting" a sponge is to obtain a large 
number of yeast plants from a few. 

Commercial yeast is placed on the market in two forms — moist and 
dry. Each of these yeasts has its advantages, so that the one to 
select depends on the method preferred for the making of bread 
as well as the time that may be devoted to the preparation of this 
food. 



12 BREAD § 4 

25. Moist yeast, which is usually called compressed yeast, 
consists of the pure yeast culture, or growth, mixed with starch to 
make a sort of dough and then compressed into small cakes, the form 
in which it is sold. The moist condition of this kind of commercial 
yeast keeps the plants in an active state and permits of very rapid 
growth in a dough mixture. Consequently, it proves very useful for 
the rapid methods of making bread. It is soft, yet brittle, is of a 
grayish-white color, and has no odor except that of yeast. 

Since the plants of compressed yeast require very little moisture 
to make them grow, an unfavorable, or low, temperature is needed 
to keep the yeast from spoiling; in fact, it is not guaranteed to 
remain good longer than a few days, and then only if it is kept at a 
temperature low enough to prevent the plants from growing. This 
fact makes it inadvisable to purchase compressed yeast at great dis- 
tances from the source of supply, although it may be obtained by 
parcel post from manufacturers or dealers. 

26. Dry yeast, the other form of commercial yeast, is made 
in much the same way as moist yeast, but, instead of being mixed 
with a small amount of starch, the yeast culture is combined with a 
large quantity of starch or meal and then dried. The process of 
drying kills off some of the plants and renders the remainder inac- 
tive ; because of this, the yeast requires no special care and will keep 
for an indefinite period of time, facts that account for its extensive 
use by housewives who are not within easy reach of the markets. 
However, because of the inactivity of the yeast plants, much longer 
time is required to produce fermentation in a bread mixture contain- 
ing dry yeast than in one in which moist yeast is used. Conse- 
quently, the long processes of bread making are brought about by 
the use of dry yeast. If moist yeast is used for these processes, a 
smaller quantity is required. 

27. Liquid Yeast. — Some housewives are so situated that 
they find it difficult to obtain commercial yeast in either of its forms ; 
but this disadvantage need not deprive them of the means of making 
good home-made bread, for they can prepare a very satisfactory 
liquid yeast themselves. To make such yeast, flour, water, and a 
small quantity of sugar are stirred together, and the mixture is then 
allowed to remain at ordinary room temperature, or 70 degrees 
Fahrenheit, until it is filled with bubbles. If hops are available, a 
few of them may be added. When such yeast is added to a sponge 



§ 4. BREAD 13 

mixture, it will lighten the whole amount. Before the sponge is 
made stiff with flour, however, a little of it should be taken out, put 
in a covered dish, and set away in a cool, dark place for the next 
baking. If properly looked after in the manner explained, this 
yeast may be kept for about 2 weeks. 

More certain results and a better flavor are insured in the use of 
liquid yeast if it is started with commercial yeast, so that whenever 
this can be obtained it should be used. Then, as just explained, 
some of the liquid containing the yeast or some of the sponge made 
with it may be retained for the next baking. 

28. Quality of Yeast. — Of equal importance with the quality 
of flour is the quality of yeast used in the baking of bread. Yeast is, 
of course, accountable for the lightness or sponginess of bread, but, 
in addition, it improves the flavor of the bread if it is of good quality 
or detracts from the flavor if it is of poor quality. Since the con- 
dition of yeast cannot be determined until its effect on the finished 
product is noted, the housewife should take no chances, but should 
employ only yeast, whether she uses commercial or liquid, that she 
knows to be good and reliable. Compressed yeast may be easily 
judged as to quality. It should be grayish white in color, without 
streaks or spots, and it should have no sour nor disagreeable odor. 
If home-made yeast is used and the results obtained are not satis- 
factory, it may be taken for granted that a fresh supply should be 
prepared. 

YEAST AIDS 

29. As has already been explained, yeast, in order to grow, 
requires something on which to feed, and the food that produces the 
most rapid growth is that which contains carbohydrate. Certain of 
the carbohydrates, however, prove to be better food and produce 
more rapid growth than others, and these, which are known as 
yeast aids, are usually added as ingredients in the making of 
bread. The ones that are most commonly used are sugar and 
potato water. Sugar is almost always added, but it should be limited 
in quantity, because a dough mixture that is made heavy with sugar 
will rise very slowly. Potato water has been found to be a very 
satisfactory aid, because the starch of the potato is utilized readily 
by the yeast. If this aid is to be used, the water in which potatoes 
are boiled may be saved and, when the ingredients required for 



14 BREAD § 4 

the making of bread are mixed, it may be added as a part or all of 
the liquid required. If it is desired to increase the amount of starch 
in the potato water, a boiled potato or two may be mashed and added 
to it. 

MILK AND FAT IN BREAD 

30. Milk is sometimes used as a part or as all of the liquid in 
bread. While it adds nutritive value and is thought by many persons 
to improve the texture, it is not absolutely essential to successful 
bread making. Whenever milk is used, it should first be scalded 
thoroughly. A point that should not be overlooked in connection 
with the use of milk is that the crust of milk bread browns more 
readily and has a more uniform color than that of bread in which 
water is used as liquid. 

31. Like milk, fat adds nutritive value to bread, but it is not an 
essential ingredient. If it is included, care should be taken not to use 
too much, for an excessive amount will retard the growth of the 
yeast. Almost any kind of fat, such as butter, lard or other clear 
tasteless fats, or any mixture of these, may be used for this purpose, 
provided it does not impart an unpleasant flavor to the bread. 



PROPORTION OP BREAD-MAKING MATERIALS 

32. No definite rule can be given for the exact proportion of 
liquid and flour to be used in bread making, because some kinds of 
flour absorb much more liquid than others. It has been determined, 
however, that 3 cupfuls of flour is generally needed for each small 
loaf of bread. With this known, the quantity of flour can be deter- 
mined by the amount of bread that is to be made. The quantity of 
liquid required depends on the quantity and kind of flour selected, 
but usually there should be about one-third as much liquid as flour. 

The particular method that is selected for the making of bread, as 
is explained later, determines the amount of yeast to be used. If it 
is desired not to have the bread rise quickly, a small quantity, about 
i cake of compressed yeast or 2 tablespoonfuls of liquid yeast, is 
sufficient for each loaf ; but if rapid rising is wanted, two, three, or 
four times as much yeast must be used to produce a sufficient amount 
of carbon dioxide in less time. It should be remembered that the 
more yeast used, the more quickly will the necessary gas be created. 



§4 



BREAD 



15 



and that, as has already been shown, it is the formation of gas that 
makes bread Hght and porous. In addition to flour, hquid, and yeast, 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, and 1 tablespoonful 
of fat are the ingredients generally used for each loaf of bread. 



UTENSILS FOR BREAD MAKING 

33. Necessary Equipment. — Not many utensils are required 
for bread making, but the ones that are needed must be of the right 
kind if the best results are to be obtained. The necessary equipment 
is illustrated in Fig. 2. It includes a mixing bowl and cover a; a 
flour sieve b; measuring cups c of standard size, one for moist and 
one for dry ingredients, measuring spoons d, and a case knife or a 




Fig. 2 

spatula e for measuring; a long-handled spoon / for mixing; and 
baking, or bread, pans g. Unless the table is such that it can be used 
as a molding board, it will be necessary to provide in addition to the 
equipment mentioned, a molding board of suitable size. 

The mixing bowl may be an earthen one or a metal one like that 
shown in the illustration. The size of the pans used and the material 
of which the pans are made should also receive attention. The 
loaves will be found to bake more quickly and thoroughly if they 
are not made too large and each one is baked in a separate pan. 
Pans that are 8 inches long, 3^ inches wide, and 3 inches deep are of 
a convenient size. They may be made of tin, sheet iron, aluminum, 
or heat-resisting glass, the only requirements being that all the pans 
used at one baking be of the same material, because, as heat pene- 
trates some materials more quickly than others, the baking will then 
be more uniform. 



16 BREAD § 4= 

34. Convettient Eauipment. — While the utensils shown in 
Fig. 2 are all that are actually required in the making of bread, a 
bread mixer, one style of which is described in Essentials of Cookery, 
Part 2, will be found extremely convenient by the housewife who 
must bake large quantities of bread at one time and who has not a 
great deal of time to devote to the work. This labor-saving device 
can be used and, of course, often is used by the housewife who makes 
only a small quantity of bread, as, for instance, two to four loaves ; 
but it is not actually needed by her, as she can handle such an amount 
easily and quickly. 

A cooler, which consists of a framework covered with wire net- 
ting and supported by short legs, is also a convenient utensil, as it 
serves as a good place on which to put baked bread to cool. If one 
of these devices is not available, however, a substitute can be easily 
made by stretching a wire netting over a wooden frame. 



BREAD-MAKING PROCESSES 



ACQUIRING SKILL IN BREAD MAKING 

35. The nature and the quality of the ingredients required to 
make bread, as well as the utensils that are needed for this purpose, 
being understood, it is next in order to take up the actual work 
of making bread. Several processes are included in this work ; 
namely, making the dough, caring for the rising dough, kneading the 
dough, shaping the dough into loaves, baking the loaves, and caring 
for the bread after it is baked. When the finished product is obtained, 
the loaves are ready to be scored and served. A knowledge of how to 
carry out these processes is of the utmost importance, for much of the 
success achieved in bread making depends on the proper handling 
of the ingredients. Of course, skill in manipulation is acquired only 
by constant practice, so that the more opportunity the housewife has 
to apply her knowledge of the processes, the more proficient will 
she become in this phase of cookery. Each one of the processes 
mentioned is here discussed in the order in which it comes in the 
actual work of bread making, and while the proper consideration 
should be given to every one of them, it will be well, before entering 
into them, to observe the qualities that characterize good wheat 
bread. 



§ 4 BREAD 17 

36. Good wheat bread may be described in various ways, but, as 
has been learned by experience and as is pointed out by United States 
government authorities, probably the best way in which to think of 
it, so far as its structure is concerned, is as a mass of tiny bubbles 
made of flour and water, having very thin walls and fixed in shape 
by means of heat. The size of the cells and the nature of the bubble 
walls are points that should not be overlooked. 

Each loaf should be light in weight, considering its size, should be 
regular in form, and should have an unbroken, golden-brown crust. 
The top crust should be smooth and should have a luster, which is 
usually spoken of as the "bloom" of the crust. Taken as a whole, 
the loaf should have a certain sponginess, which is known as its 
elasticity, and which is evidenced by the way in which the loaf acts 
when it is pressed slightly out of shape. As soon as the pressure is 
removed, the loaf should resume its original shape. This test should 
produce the same results when it is applied to small pieces of the 
crust and to the cut surface of the loaf. 

The internal appearance must also receive consideration. To be 
right, wheat bread should be creamy white in color and should have 
a definite "sheen," which can best be seen by looking across a slice, 
rather than directly down into it. As already explained, the holes 
in it should be small and evenly distributed and their walls should 
be very thin. These points can be readily determined by holding a 
very thin slice up to the light. 

The flavor of bread is also a very important factor, but it is some- 
what difficult to describe just the exact flavor that bread should have 
in order to be considered good. Probably the best way in which to 
explain this is to say that its flavor should be that which is brought 
about by treating the wheat with salt. While such a flavor may not 
be known to all, it is familiar to those who have tasted the wheat 
kernel. 



18 BREAD § i 



MAKING THE DOUGH 



PREIilMINARY TREATMBIVT OP INGREDIENTS 

37. The first step in bread making, and without doubt the most 
important one, is the making of the dough. It consists in moistening 
the flour by means of a liquid of some kind in order to soften the 
gluten and the starch, to dissolve the sugar, and to cement all the 
particles together, and then combining these ingredients. Before 
the ingredients are combined, however, particularly the flour, the 
liquid, and the yeast, they must generally be warmed in order to 
shorten the length of time necessary for the yeast to start growing. 
Much care should be exercised in heating these materials, for good 
results will not be obtained unless they are brought to the proper 
temperature. The flour should feel warm and the liquid, whether 
it be water or milk, should, when it is added, be of such a temper- 
ature that it also will feel warm to the fingers. If water is used, it 
ought to be just as pure as possible, but if milk is preferred it should 
be used only after it has been scalded. The yeast should be dissolved 
in a small quantity of lukewarm water. Hot water used for this 
purpose is liable to kill the yeast and prevent the bread from rising, 
whereas cold water will retard the growth of the yeast. 



COMBINING THE INGREDIENTS 

38. As soon as the bread ingredients have received the proper 
treatment, they are ready to be combined. Combining may be done 
by two different methods, one of which is known as the short process 
and the other as the long process. As their names indicate, these 
methods are characterized by the length of time required for the 
bread to rise. Each method has its advantages, and the one to 
select depends on the amount of time and energy the housewife can 
afford to give to this part of her work. Persons who use the long 
process believe that bread made by it tastes better and keeps longer 
than that made by the short process ; whereas, those who favor the 
short process find that it saves time and labor and are convinced that 
the quality of the bread is not impaired. The more rapid methods 
of making breads are possible only when yeast in the active state 
IS used and when more of it than would be necessary in the long 



§ 4 BREAD 19 

process, in which time must be allowed for its growth, is employed. 
However, regardless of the method followed, all bread mixtures 
must be begun in the same manner. The liquids, seasonings, and 
fat are combined, and to these is added the flour, which should be 
sifted in, as shown in Fig. 3. 

39. Long Process. — By the long process, there are two ways 
of combining the ingredients in order to make bread. One is known 
as the sponge method and the other as the straight-dough method. 

40. The long-process sponge method is employed when 
sufficient time can be allowed to permit the natural growth of the 
yeast. To make bread according to this process, start it in the 




Fig. 3 

evening by warming the liquid and dissolving the yeast and then 
adding these ingredients to the sugar, salt, and fat, which should 
first be placed in the mixing bowl. Stir this mixture well, and then 
add one-half of the quantity of flour that is to be used, stirring this 
also. Place this mixture, or sponge^ as such a mixture is called, 
where it will remain warm, or at a temperature of from 65 to 
70 degrees Fahrenheit, through the night. In the morning, stir 
the remaining flour into the sponge and knead for a few minutes the 
dough thus formed. When this is accomplished, put the dough in a 
warm place and allow it to rise until it doubles in bulk. When the 
dough is in this condition, it is ready to be kneaded again, after which 
it may be shaped into loaves, placed in the pans, allowed to double 
in bulk again, and finally baked. 



20 BREAD § 4 

41. The long-process stralglit-dougli metliod is a short- 
ened form of the method just explained. It does away with the 
necessity of one kneading and one rising and consequently saves con- 
siderable time and labor. To make bread by this method, combine 
the ingredients in the evening as for the sponge method, but instead 
of adding only half of the flour, put all of it into the mixture, make 
a stiff dough at once, and knead. Then allow this to rise during the 
night, so that in the morning it can be kneaded again and put directly 
into the bread pans. After it rises in the pans until it doubles in 
bulk, it is ready to be baked. 

The only disadvantage of the straight-dough method is that a stiff 
dough rises more slowly than a sponge, but since the entire night is 
given to the rising no difficulty will be experienced in carrying out 
this process. A point to remember, however, is that dough made 
according to this method must be kept warmer than that made by 
the sponge method. 

42. Quick Process. — In the quick process of combining bread 
ingredients, there are also two methods of procedure — ^the sponge 
method and the straight-dough method. The chief differences 
between the methods of this process and those of the long process 
are in the quantity of yeast used and the length of time required for 
the bread to rise. More yeast must be used and much less time is 
required for the completion of the entire process. This shorter 
period of time is doubtless due to the fact that throughout the proc- 
ess, whether the straight-dough or the sponge method is followed, 
the mixture must be kept at a uniform temperature of about 
90 degrees Fahrenheit. 

43. The quick-process sponge naethocl requires only about 
5 hours for its completion, and the bread may be started at any time 
of the day that will allow this amount of time for carrying on the 
work. For this method, warm the ingredients and then combine the 
sugar, salt, fat, liquid, and dissolved yeast. Into this mixture, stir 
enough of the flour to make a sponge and put it where it will keep 
uniformly warm until it has about doubled in quantity and is full of 
bubbles. Then add the remainder of the flour, knead the mixture, 
and return the dough thus formed to a warm place. When the dough 
has doubled in bulk, remove it from the bowl to the kneading board, 
knead it slightly, and then shape it into loaves. Place these into the 
pans, and after allowing them to rise sufficiently, bake them. 



§ 4 BREAD 21 

44. The quick-process straight-dougli method difJfers 
from the quick-process sponge method in that the entire amount 
of flour is added when the ingredients are first mixed, with the 
resuh that a stiff dough instead of a sponge is formed. As has 
already been learned, this stiff dough rises more slowly than a 
sponge, but it requires one rising less. It must be kept at a uniform 
temperature as much of the time as possible, so that the rising will 
not be retarded. When it has doubled in bulk, remove it from the 
bowl and knead it. Then shape it into loaves, place these in the pans, 
allow them to rise sufficiently, and proceed with the baking. 



CARE OF THE RISING DOUGH 

45. Purpose of Rising^. — Rising is an important part of the 
process of bread making, no matter which method is employed. In 
a sponge, its purpose is to blend the ingredients after they have been 
mixed, as well as to permit the growth of the yeast; in a dough, 
after the gas has been evenly distributed by means of kneading, the 
purpose of rising is to permit the incorporation of a sufficient quan- 
tity of carbon dioxide to make the bread light when it is baked. As 
has just been explained, three risings are necessary in the sponge 
method of both the long and the short process, whereas only two are 
required in the straight-dough methods. The last rising, or the one 
that takes place after the dough is shaped into loaves, is the one that 
affects the texture of the bread most, so that it should receive con- 
siderable attention. If the dough is not allowed to rise sufficiently 
at this time, the bread will be too fine in texture and will likely be 
heavy; and if it is permitted to rise too much, it will be coarse in 
texture. Allowance, however, should be made for the fact that the 
rising will continue after the bread has been placed in the oven. 

46. Temperature for Rising. — ^As has been mentioned, the 
best results are obtained if the bread dough is kept at a uniform 
temperature throughout its rising. The temperature at which it 
rises most rapidly is about 86 degrees Fahrenheit ; but, unless it can 
be watched closely, a better plan is to keep it, especially if the long 
process of bread making is followed, at a temperature that runs no 
higher than 80 degrees. Various methods of maintaining a uniform 
temperature have been devised, but the ones usually resorted to 
consist in placing the bowl containing the sponge or the dough in a 
bread raiser, a fireless cooker, or a vessel of hot water. 

w I— c 1— u 



22 



BREAD 



§4 



Oven temperature for. 
baking roUa 



40rfl, 



— Increase temperature / (V»- 

*«>"» ^ Itcmper. 

1^ -[Place dough in oven ^ »*»»« 

bakinff 
breaii 



— Decrease to finith 
baking 



!.h[l 



47. Bread raisers can be purchased, but if desired a simple 
bread-raising device may be constructed from a good-sized wooden 

box. To make such a de- 
^ vice, line the box with tin 

or similar metal and fit it 
with a door or a cover that 
may be closed tight. Make 
a hole in one side of the 
box into which to insert a 
thermometer, and, at about 
the center of the box, place 
a shelf on which to set the 
bowl or pan containing the 
sponge or dough. For 
heating the interior, use 
may be made of a single 
gas burner, an oil lamp, or 
any other small heating de- 
vice. This should be placed 
in the bottom of the box, 
under the shelf, and over 
it should be placed a pan of 
water to keep the air in the 
box moist, moist air being 
essential to good results. 
Where large quantities of 
bread must be baked reg- 
ularly, such a device will 
prove very satisfactory. 
The temperature inside 
should be kept somewhere 
in the neighborhood of 95 
to 105 degrees Fahrenheit 
if the bread is to rise 
rapidly ; but it may be kept 
from 80 to 95 degrees if 
slower rising is desired. 

Fig. 4 '^ 

48. Placing the bowl containing the dough mixture in a larger 
-vessel of hot water is a simple and satisfactory way of obtaining a 



Temperature at which 
water ihould be kept 
outside of bowl to-CI^ 
maintain temperature "° 
of 75 to 90 indough 



|j|.^ Temperature at which 
^dough ahoi 
7P for rising 



;4 



BREAD 



23 



uniform temperature, being especially desirable for a sponge in the 
quick-process sponge method. The water in the large vessel should 
be at a temperature of about 110 to 115 degrees Fahrenheit. After 
the bowl of sponge or dough is placed in the water, the large vessel 
should be covered very carefully, so that the heat from the water will 
be retained. To maintain the temperature in the vessel and thus keep 
it right for the bread mixture, the hot water has to be replenished 
occasionally. If this is done, the sponge or dough will be main- 
tained at a temperature of about 90 degrees and will therefore rise 
rapidly. 




49. To insure the best results with the rising of bread mixtures, 
it is advisable, for the beginner at least, to use a thermometer for 
determining the temperature of air or water, as this instrument will 
save considerable time 
until experience in judg- 
ing such matters has 
been gained. As an aid 
in this process, there are 
indicated in the ther- 
mometer shown in Fig. 
4 the temperature at 
which dough should be 
kept for rising and the 
temperature at which 
water should be kept out- 
side the bowl to maintain 
a temperature of 75 to 90 degrees in the dough when the plan men- 
tioned in Art. 48 for keeping dough at a uniform temperature is 
followed. In addition, the oven temperatures for baking bread and 
rolls, which are explained later, are also shown. For home use, 
however, an immersion thermometer will be found more practical. 
The temperature of water can, however, be determined fairly accu- 
rately with the hands. If it feels very warm but does not burn the 
hand, it may be considered at about a temperature of 110 to 
115 degrees. 

In order to prevent the formation of a hard surface on the dough, 
the bowl in which it rises should be kept tightly covered. A further 
means of preventing this condition consists in oiling the surface of 
the dough; that is, brushing it lightly with melted fat. In case a 



Fig. 5 



24 



BREAD 



§* 



crust does form, it should be well moistened with water or milk and 
allowed to soften completely before the next kneading is begun. 

50. Time Required, for Rising. — No definite rule can be 
given for the length of time required for dough to rise, for this 
depends entirely on the activity of the yeast. If the yeast is active, 
the dough will rise quickly ; but if it is not of good quality or if it has 
been killed or retarded in its growth by improper handling, the dough 
will rise slowly. Usually, dough should be allowed to rise until it has 

doubled in bulk. A good 
way in which to deter- 
mine when this takes 
place is to put a small 
piece of the dough in a 
glass, such as a measur- 
ing glass, a tumbler, or a 
jelly glass, and mark on 
this glass where the 
dough should come when 
it has increased to twice 
its size. This glass set 
beside the vessel contain- 
ing the dough will show 
when it has risen suffi- 
ciently. This plan is 
illustrated in Figs. 5 and 6. Fig. 5 shows a glass half filled with 
dough and a bowl of bread dough ready to be placed where they will 
keep warm for the first rising; and Fig. 6 shows the same dough 
after it has doubled in bulk, as is evident from the fact that the glass 
is entirely full. 




Fig. 6 



KNEADING THE DOUGH 
51. Purpose of Kneading. — As has been pointed out, it is 
necessary to knead dough one or more times in the making of bread, 
the number of kneadings depending on the method that is employed. 
The purpose of kneading is to work the dough so as to distribute 
evenly the gas that is produced by the yeast, to increase the elasticity 
of the gluten, and to blend the ingredients. It is a very important 
part of the work of bread making, for to a great extent it is respon- 
sible for the texture of the finished product. At first, kneading 



§* 



BREAD 



25 




Fig. 7 



may be found to be somewhat difficult, but the beginner need not 
become discouraged if she is not proficient at once, because the skill 
that is necessary to 
knead the bread success- 
fully comes with prac- 
tice. So that the best 
results may be attained, 
however, it is advisable 
that the purpose for 
which the kneading is 
done be kept constantly 
before the mind during 
the process. 



52. Kneading: 

Motions. — Several mo- 
tions are involved in the 
kneading of bread, and 
these are illustrated in 
Figs. 7 to 10. In order 
to carry out the kneading process, first cover lightly with flour 
the surface on which the kneading is to be done ; this may be a suit- 
able table top or a mold- 
ing board placed on a 
table. Then remove the 
dough from the mixing 
bowl with the aid of a 
case knife or a spatula, 
in the manner shown in 
Fig. 6, and place it on the 
floured surface. Sift a 
little flour over the 
dough, so that it appears 
as in Fig. 7, and flatten 
it slightly by patting it 
gently. Next, with the 
fingers placed as shown 
in Fig. 8, take hold of the edge of the mass at the side farthest from 
you and fold the dough over the edge nearest nearest you, as Fig. 9 
illustrates. Then work the dough with a downward pressure and, 




Fig. 8 



26 



BREAD 



§4 




Fig. 9 



as indicated in Fig. 10, push it out with the palms of the hands. 

With the motion completed, turn the entire mass around and knead 

it in the same way in 
another direction. Con- 
tinue the kneading by 
repeating these motions 
until the dough has a 
smooth appearance, is 
elastic, does not stick to 
either the hands or the 
board, and rises quickly 
when it is pressed down. 
To prevent the dough 
from sticking to the 
hands and the board, 

flour should be added gradually during the process of kneading, but 

care should be taken not to use too much flour for this purpose. 

The lightness and spon- 

giness of the finished 

loaf depend largely on 

the quantity of flour 

used at this time, so that 

if the dough is made too 

stiff with flour, the bread 

will be hard and close 

after it is baked. As 

soon as the dough can be 

kneaded without its 

sticking to either the 

hands or the board, no 

more flour need be add- ^"=- *° 

ed ; but, in case too much flour is used, the dough may be softened 

by means of milk or water. Such dough, however, is not so satis- 
factory as that which does not have to be softened. 




BREAD 



2r 



SHAPING THE DOUGH INTO LOAVES 

53. After the dough is properly kneaded in the manner just 
explained, it is placed in the mixing bowl and allowed to rise again. 
When it has risen sufficiently for the last time, depending on the 
process employed, it should be kneaded again, if it must be reduced 
in size, and then shaped into loaves and put in the pans. Here, 
again, much care should be exercised, for the way in which bread is 
prepared for the pans has much to do with the shape of the loaf after 
it is baked. 



54. In order to shape the dough into loaves, first loosen it from 
the sides of the mixing bowl, using a knife or a spatula for this pur- 




FlG. 11 

pose, and then turn it out on a flat surface on which flour has been 
sprinkled, as in preparing for kneading. Knead the dough a little, 
and then cut it into pieces that will be the correct size for the pans 
in which the loaves are to be baked, as shown at the right in Fig. 1 1. 
Dust each piece with a small quantity of flour and knead it until the 
large bubbles of gas it contains are worked out and it is smooth and 
round. In working it, stretch the under side, which is to be the top 
of the loaf, and form it into a roll that is as long and half as high as 
the pan and as thick at each end as in the center. A good idea o.f 
the size and shape can be formed from the loaf held in the hands in 
Fig. 11. 



28 



BREAD 



§4 



55. As each loaf is formed, place it in the pan in the manner 
shown in Fig. 12 and allow it to rise until the dough comes to the 

top of the pan, or has 
doubled in bulk. So that the 
loaf will be symmetrical 
after it has risen — ^that is, as 
high at each end as in the 
middle — the shaped dough 
must fit well into the corners 
and ends of the pan. At a. 
Fig. 13, is shown how dough 
placed in the pan for rising 
should appear, and at b is 
illustrated how the dough 
should look after it has risen 
sufficiently to permit it to be 
placed in the oven for bak- 
ing. To produce the result 
illustrated at b, the dough must be kept in a warm temperature, 
and to exclude the air and prevent the formation of a hard crust 
on the dough, it must be covered well with both a cloth and a metal 
cover. Another way in which to prevent the formation of a hard 




Fig. 12 



^^2 


ff"^ 


^p 


^ 


*\j 


^^^^^^^^^^^H^^H 



Pig. 13 



crust consists in greasing the surface of the dough when it is placed 
in the pan, as at a, for rising. 



§ 4 BREAD 29 



BAKING THE BREAD 

56. Purpose of Baking. — The various processes in the mak- 
ing of bread that have been considered up to this point may be 
successfully carried out, but unless the baking, which is the last step, 
is properly done, the bread is likely to be unpalatable and indigestible. 
Much attention should therefore be given to this part of the work. 
So that the best results may be obtained, it should be borne in mind 
that bread is baked for the purpose of killing the ferment, rupturing 
the starch grains of the flour so that they become digestible, fixing 
the air cells, and forming a nicely flavored crust. During the process 
of baking, certain changes take place in the loaf. The gluten that 
the dough contains is hardened by the heat and remains in the shape 
of bubbles, which give the bi^ead a porous appearance ; also, the 
starch contained in the dough is cooked within the loaf, but the out- 
side is first cooked and then toasted. 

57. Oven Temperature for Baking^. — In baking bread, it is 
necessary first to provide the oven with heat of the right temperature 
and of sufficient strength to last throughout the baking. As is indi- 
cated in Fig. 4, the usual oven temperature for successful bread 
baking is from 380 to 425 degrees Fahrenheit, but in both the first 
and the last part of the baking the heat should be less than during 
the middle of it._ An oven thermometer or an oven gauge is a very 
good means of determining the temperature of the oven. But if 
neither of these is available the heat may be tested by placing in 
the oven a white cracker, a piece of white paper, or a layer of flour 
spread on a shallow tin pan. If any one of these becomes a light 
brown in 5 minutes, the oven is right to commence baking. Every 
precaution should be taken to have the oven just right at first, 
for if the bread is placed, in an oven that is too hot the yeast 
plant will be killed immediately and the rising consequently 
checked. Of course, the bread will rise to some extent even if 
the yeast plant is killed at once, for the carbon dioxide that the 
dough contains will expand as it becomes heated and will force the 
loaf up ; but bread baked in this way is generally very unsatisfactory, 
because a hard crust forms on the top and it must either burst or 
retard the rising of the loaf. If the heat is not sufficient, the dough 
will continue to rise until the air cells run together and cause large 
boles to form in the loaf. In an oven that is just moderately hot, or 



30 



BREAD 



§* 



has a temperature of about 400 degrees, the yeast plant will not be 
killed so quickly, the dough will continue to rise for some time, and 
the crust of the bread should begin to brown in about 15 minutes. 

58. Fig. 14 illustrates a loaf of bread that has risen too much. 
The inside texture is coarse and the shape of the loaf is not good. 
Fig. 15 shows the result of uneven temperature. The high side is 
caused by exposure to more intense heat than the opposite side, and 
the crack is the result of a too rapid formation of the crust. Some- 
times it is advisable to keep the crust from becoming hard too 




Fig. 14 Fig. 15 

rapidly. In order to do this, and at the same time 'produce a more 
even color, the top of the loaf may be moistened by brushing it with 
milk before it is put into the oVen. 

Fig. 16 shows a well-formed loaf of bread that has had the right 
amount of rising, and Fig. 17 shows the inside texture of bread for 
which the mixing, rising, and baking have been correctly done. 

59. Time for Baking^ and Care of Bread in Oven. — The 

time required for baking bread and the care it should receive 
in the oven are also important matters to know. How long the 
bread should bake depends on the size of the loaf. Under 
proper oven temperature, a small loaf, or one made with 1 cup- 
ful of liquid, ought to bake in from 50 minutes to 1 hour, while 
a large loaf requires from IJ to 2 hours. As has been explained, the 
loaf should begin to brown, or have its crust formed, in about 
15 minutes after it is placed in the oven, and the baking should 
proceed rather slowly. 



§4 



BREAD 



31 




Pig. 16 



To get the best results in baking, the pans should be placed so that 
the air in the oven will circulate freely around them. If they are 
so placed that the loaves touch each other or the sides of the oven, 
the loaves will rise unevenly and consequently will be unsightly in 
shape, like those shown 
in Figs. 14 and 15. If 
the loaves rise higher 
on one side than on the 
other, even when the 
pans are properly placed, 
it is evident that the heat 
is greater in that place 
than in the other parts of 
the oven and the loaves 
should therefore be 
changed to another posi- 
tion. Proper care given 
to bread while baking 
will produce loaves that 
are an even brown on 
the bottom, sides, and top and that shrink from the sides of the pan. 

60. Care of Bread After Baking. — ^As soon as the bread has 
baked sufficiently, take it from the oven, remove the loaves from the 

pans, and place them to cool where 
the.air may circulate freely around 
them. A bread rack, or cake 
cooler, like the one on which the 
loaf rests in Figs. 14, 15, and 16, 
is very satisfactory for this pur- 
pose, but if such a device is not 
available, the loaves may be placed 
across the edges of the empty pans 
so that nearly the entire surface 
is exposed. Whichever plan is 
adopted, it should be remembered 
that the bread must be carefully 
Bread should never be permitted to 
remain in the pans after it has been baked nor to cool on a flat sur- 
face; neither should the loaves be wrapped while they are warm, 




Fig. 17 

protected from dust and flies. 



32 BREAD § 4 

because the moisture will collect on the surface and the bread will 
not keep so well. 

After the loaves have become sufficiently cool, place them in the 
receptacle in which they are to be kept. This should have been pre- 
viously washed and dried and then allowed to stand in the sunshine, 
so as to be free from mold or any substance that will taint or other- 
wise injure the bread. After the loaves have been put into it, keep 
it well covered and allow no stale crumbs nor pieces of bread to 
collect. To keep such a receptacle in good condition, it should be 
scalded and dried every 2 or 3 days. 



SCORING BREAD 

61. Object of Scoring Bread.— By the scoring of bread is 
meant simply the judging of its qualities. Persons who understand 
what good bread is agree very closely on the qualities that should 
characterize it, and they make these qualities a standard by which 
any kind of bread may be scored, or judged. Those who are not 
proficient in the making of bread, as well as those who have had 
very little experience, will do well to have their bread judged by 
experts or to learn how to score it themselves. By following this 
plan, they will be able to find out the good and bad points of their 
bread and then, by ascertaining the causes of any poor qualities, will 
be in a position to make improvements. So that the beginner may 
learn how to judge the qualities of her bread, she should study care- 
fully the accompanying score card and its explanation. 

Score Card 
External Appearance : Pe, Ceht. 

Shape 5 

Size 2 

Crust: 

Shade 2 

Uniformity of Color 2 

Character 2 

Depth 2—8 

Lightness 20 

Internal Appearance: 

Even distribution of gas 10 

Moisture S 

Elasticity 5 

Color IS 

Flavor 30 

Total 100 



§ 4 BREAD 33 

62. Explanation of Score Card. — A study of the score card 
will reveal that a certain number of points are given to a loaf of 
bread for appearance, both external and internal, for lightness, and 
for flavor. To determine these qualities best, allow the loaf to cool 
thoroughly after baking. Then consider the various points, and 
decide how nearly perfect the loaf is in respect to each one of them. 
Add the numbers that are determined upon, and the result obtained 
will show how the bread scores. 

63. The shape of the loaf, in order to be perfect and to score 5, 
should be uniform and symmetrical. Any such shape as that shown 
in Fig. 15 would fall below perfect. 

The sise of the loaf, for which a score of 2 is given, is determined 
from the standpoint of thorough baking. The exact size that a loaf 
must be is a rather difficult thing to state, because the sizes vary 
considerably, but a loaf of an ungainly size should be guarded 
against, for it would not score well. Bread made in pans of the size 
already mentioned would score high with regard to size. 

The crust, whose combined characteristics score 8, should be a 
golden brown in color in order to receive the score of 2 for its shade. 
A pale loaf or one baked too brown would not receive full credit. If 
the required color extends uniformly over the entire loaf, the bottom 
and the sides, as well as the top, 2 more is added to the score 
of the crust for uniformity of color. After these points are 
scored, a slice of bread should be cut from the loaf in order that the 
remaining points may be scored. As fresh bread does not cut easily, 
and as a well-cut slice must be had for this purpose, special care 
must be taken to obtain the slice. Therefore, sharpen a large knife 
and heat the blade slightly by holding it near a flame; then cut a 
slice at least -J inch thick from the loaf before the blade has had time 
to cool. With such a slice cut, the character of the crust, by which 
is meant its toughness or its tenderness, may be determined. A score 
of 2 is given if it is of sufficient tenderness or is devoid of toughness. 
The depth of the crust, which depends on the amount of baking the 
loaf has had, receives a score of 2 if it is perfect. A deep crust, 
which is the preferred kind, is produced by long, slow baking ; bread 
that is baked only a short time has a thin crust, which is not so 
desirable and would not score so high. 

64. The lightness of the bread can easily be scored when the 
bread is cut. It is judged by the size of the holes, and if it is perfect 



34. BREAD § i 

it receives a score of 20. If the bread is not light enough, the holes 
will be small and the bread will feel solid and unelastic; if it is too 
light, the holes will be large and coarse. 

65. The internal appearance, which is scored next, includes 
several characteristics. For the even distribution of gas, which is 
determined by the uniformity of the holes, 10 points are given. If 
the kneading has been done right and the bread has risen properly, 
the gas will be distributed evenly through the loaf, with the result 
that the holes, which make the bread porous, will be practically the 
same throughout the entire loaf. Such a texture is better than that of 
a loaf that has some large and some small holes. The moisture in the 
bread, which receives 5 if it is of the right amount, is tested by 
pinching a crumb between the fingers. If the crumb feels harsh 
and dry, the bread is not moist enough, and if it feels doughy, 
the bread is too moist. The elasticity, for which 5 is given, is deter- 
mined by pressing the finger gently into a cut place in the loaf. The 
bread may be considered to be elastic if it springs back after the 
finger is removed and does not break nor crumble. As compared 
with cake, bread is always more elastic, a characteristic that is due 
to the quantity of gluten it contains. Still it should be remembered 
that the elasticity must not amount to toughness, for if it does the 
quality of the bread is impaired. To score 15 for color, the inside 
of the loaf should be of an even, creamy white. A dull white or 
gray color would indicate that flour of a poor quality had been used, 
and dark or white streaks in the bread would denote uneven mixing 
and insufficient kneading. 

66. The last thing to be scored, namely, the flavor, merits 
30 points. To determine this characteristic, chew a small piece of 
bread well. If it is not sour nor musty, has a sweet, nutty flavor, 
and shows that the correct amount of salt and sugar were added 
in the mixing, it may receive a perfect score. 



USE OP THE BREAD MIXER 

67. The advantage of a bread mixer \n bread making is that it 
practically does away with hand mixing and kneading ; however, all 
the other steps described are the same, depending on the process 
used. As has been mentioned, the housewife who bakes such a small 
quantity as three or four loaves of bread can get along very well 



§ 4 BREAD 35 

without a bread mixer ; at least, for so few loaves a bread mixer does 
not seem so necessary as when six or more loaves are to be made 
at one time, when it is a decided convenience. However, bread 
mixers can be had in various sizes to meet the requirements of the 
housewife. 

68. In using a bread mixer like that described in Essentials of 
Cookery, Part 2, the ingredients are placed in the mixer and thor- 
oughly mixed together by turning the handle, and after the sponge or 
the dough has risen, the kneading is performed by again turning the 
handle. The amount of turning to be done is, of course, regulated by 
the ingredients and the method that is followed. 

In addition to the bread mixer mentioned, there is another con- 
venient type that is constructed in two parts, the top part having a 
sifter in its bottom, through which the flour or other dry ingredients 
are sifted. The sifting is done with a crank, which also operates a 
shaft to which is attached a number of knives extending in different 
directions. These knives accomplish the mixing and the kneading. 
The bread is allowed to rise in the lower part of the bread mixer, the 
top part being removed after the mixing and sifting have been 
accomplished. 

Any of the bread-making methods described may be used with 
the bread mixer without change in the process, and no kneading 
need be done by hand except a sufficient amount to shape the loaves 
after the last rising and before they are placed in the pans. 



SERVING BREAD 

69. Bread is one of the foods that every one takes so much as a 
matter of course that little thought is given to its serving. Of 
course, it does not offer so much opportunity for variety in serving 
as do some foods; yet, like all other foods, it appeals more to the 
appetites of those who are to eat it if it is served in an attractive 
manner. A few ideas as to the ways in which it may be served will 
therefore not be amiss. 

As fresh bread is not easily digested, it should not usually be 
served until it is at least 24 hours old. Before it is placed on the 
table, it should be cut in slices, the thickness of which will depend 
on the preference of the persons who are to eat it. If the loaf is 
large in size, the pieces should be cut in two, lengthwise of the slice, 
but in the case of a small loaf the slices need not be cut. 



86 BREAD § i 

Various receptacles for placing bread and rolls on the table, such 
as a bread boat, a bread plate, and a bread basket, are also used to 
add variety in serving. Whichever of these is selected, it may be 
improved in appearance by the addition of a white linen doily. For 
rolls, a hot-roll cover is both convenient and attractive. Sometimes, 
especially when a large number of persons are to be served, a roll is 
placed between the folds of each person's napkin before they are 
seated at the table. 

Occasionally bread becomes stale before it is needed on the table. 
Such bread, however, should not be discarded, especially if the 
loaves are uncut. Uncut loaves of this kind may be freshened by 
dipping them quickly into boiling water and then placing them in a 
very hot oven until their surface becomes dry. If desired, slices of 
bread that have become stale may be steamed in order to freshen 
them; but unless great care is taken in steaming them the bread is 
liable to become too moist and soggy. 



RECIPES 



BREAD RECIPES 

70. In order that the beginner may bring into use the bread- 
making principles and directions that have been set forth, and at the 
same time become familiar with the quantities of ingredients that 
must be used, there are here given a number of recipes for the 
making of bread. These recipes include not only white bread — ^that 
is, bread made from white flour — ^but whole-wheat, graham, rye, and 
corn bread, as well as bread in which fruit and nuts are incorporated. 
Before these recipes are taken up, though, it will not be amiss to look 
further into the various ingredients used in the making of bread. 

71. The fat used in bread making may vary in both quantity and 
kind. For instance, if less than 2 tablespoonfuls is called for in a 
recipe, this amount may be decreased ; but it is not well to increase 
the amount to any extent. Likewise, the fat may be of any kind that 
will not impart a disagreeable flavor to the finished product. It may 
be left-over chicken fat, clarified beef fat, lard, butter, cooking oil, 
or any mixture of clear, fresh fats that may be in supply. 

The sweetening for bread is, as a rule, granulated sugar, although 
sirup, molasses, brown sugar, or white sugar of any kind may be 



§ 4 BREAD 37 

employed. Sweetening is used merely to give a slightly sweet flavor 
to the bread, and the kind that is used is of slight importance. 

The liquid, as has been stated, may be water or milk or any pro- 
portion of both. The milk that is used may be either whole or skim. 
In addition to these two liquids, the whey from cottage cheese or the 
water in which rice, macaroni, or potatoes have been cooked should 
not be overlooked. Potato water in which a small quantity of potato 
may be mashed serves as a yeast aid, as has been pointed out. 
Therefore, whenever, in a bread recipe, liquid is called for and the 
kind to be used is not stated specifically, use may be made of any 
of the liquids that have been mentioned. 

The quantity of flour required for a bread recipe will depend 
entirely on the kind of flour that is to be used, bread flour having a 
much greater absorbing power for liquid than has pastry or blend 
flour. When, in the process of mixing the bread, the sponge is 
stiffened by adding the remaining flour to it, the last cupful or two 
should be added cautiously, in order not to make the mixture too 
stiff. In some instances, more flour than the recipe calls for may be 
required to make the dough of the right consistency. The amount 
can be determined only by a knowledge of what this consistency 
should be, and this will be easily acquired with practice in bread 
making. 

72. The beginner will find it a good plan to begin making bread 
entirely of white flour, for the reason that it is easier to determine 
the consistency of the dough mixture at various stages, as well as 
during the kneading, if there is no coarse material, such as bran, 
corn meal, nuts, fruits, etc., in the dough. Later, when a definite 
knowledge along this line has been acquired, one after the other of 
the bread recipes should be tried. They are no more difficult to carry 
out than the recipes for white bread ; indeed, the woman who has had 
experience in bread making will find that she will be equally success- 
ful with all of them. 

73. White Bread. — Bread made from white flour, which is 
commonly referred to as white bread, is used to a much greater 
extent than any other kind, for it is the variety that most persons 
prefer and of which they do not tire quickly. However, white 
bread should not be used to the exclusion of other breads, because 
they are of considerable importance economically. This kind of 
bread may be made by both the quick and the long processes, for the 

W I-C 1—13 



38 BREAD § 4 

ingredients are the same, with the exception of the quantity of yeast 
used. The amounts given in the following recipes are sufficient to 
make two large loaves or three small ones, but, of course, if more 
bread is desired, the quantity of each ingredient may be increased 
proportionately. 

White Bread — Long Process 

(Sufficient for Two Large or Three Small Loaves) 

2 Tb. fat 1Tb. salt 

2 Tb. sugar 1 qt. lukewarm liquid 

i cake compressed yeast, or 3 qt. flour 

1 cake dried yeast 

1 c. flour additional for kneading 
Put into the mixing bowl the fat, the sugar, the salt, and the yeast 
that has been dissolved in a little of the lukewarm liquid. Add 
the remainder of the liquid and stir in half of the flour. Place this 
sponge where it will rise overnight and will not become chilled. In 
the morning, add the remainder of the flour, stirring it well into the 
risen sponge, and knead the dough thus formed. Allow it to rise 
until it has doubled in bulk and then knead it again. After it is 
properly kneaded, shape it into loaves, place them in greased pans, 
let them rise until they have doubled in bulk, and then bake them. 
Combining the ingredients in the manner just mentioned is follow- 
ing the sponge method of the long process. By adding all instead of 
half of the flour at night, the straight-dough method of this process 
may be followed. 

White Bread — Quick Process 
(Sufficient for Two Large or Three Small Loaves) 

2 Tb. fat 2 cakes compressed yeast 

2 Tb. sugar 1 qt. lukewarm liquid 

1 Tb. salt 3 qt. flour 

1 c. flour additional for kneading 
Put the fat, the sugar, and the salt into the mixing bowl, and then 
to them add the yeast dissolved in a few tablespoonfuls of the luke- 
warm liquid. Add the remaining liquid and stir in half or all of the 
flour, according to whether the process is to be completed by the 
sponge or the straight-dough method. One yeast cake may be used 
instead of two. However, if the smaller quantity of yeast is used, 
the process will require more time, but the results will be equally 
as good. After the dough has been allowed to rise the required 
number of times and has been kneaded properly for the method 
selected, place it in greased pans, let it rise sufficiently, and proceed 
with the bakinp. 



§ 4 BREAD 39 

74. Whole-Wheat Bread. — Bread made out of whole-wheat 
flour has a distinctive flavor that is very agreeable to most persons. 
This kind of bread is not used so extensively as that made of white 
flour, but since it contains more mineral salts and bulk, it should have 
a place in the diet of every family. When made according to the 
following recipe, whole-wheat bread will be found to be a very 
desirable substitute for bread made of the finer flours. 

Whole- Wheat Bread — Quick Process 

(Sufficient for Two Small Loaves) 

3 Tb. fat 1 cake compressed yeast 

i c. brown sugar 3 c. lukewarm liquid 

1 Tb. salt 8 c. whole-wheat flour 

1 c. white flour for kneading 

Place the fat, the sugar, and the salt in the mixing bowl and add 
the yeast cake dissolved in a little of the liquid. Add the remainder 
of the liquid, and then stir in half or all of the flour, according to 
whether the sponge or the straight-dough method is preferred. 
Then proceed according to the directions previously given for mak- 
ing bread by the quick process. 

The long process may also be followed in making whole-wheat 
bread, and if it is, only one-half the quantity of yeast should be used. 

75. Graham. Bread. — To lend variety to the family diet, fre- 
quent use should be made of graham bread, which contains even 
more bulk and mineral salts than whole-wheat bread. In bread of 
this kind, both graham and white flour are used. Since graham flour 
is very heavy, it prevents the bread from rising quickly, so the bread 
is started with white flour. The accompanying recipe contains quan- 
tities for the short process, although it may be adapted to the long 
process by merely using one-half the amount of yeast. 

Graham Bread 

(Sufficient for Two Loaves) 

2 Tb. fat 2 c. lukewarm liquid 

i c. brown sugar 2 c. white flour 

2 tsp. salt 3 c. graham flour 

1 cake compressed yeast 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 

Put the fat, the sugar, and the salt in the mixing bowl, and to 
them add the yeast that has been dissolved in a little of the liquid. 
Pour over these ingredients the remainder of the liquid and stir in 
the white flour. When the mixture is to be made stiff, add the 



40 BREAD § 4 

graham flour. Then knead the dough, let it rise, knead again, place 
it in greased pans, let rise, and bake. 

A point to be remembered in the making of graham bread is that 
sifting removes the bran from graham flour, and if lightness is 
desired, the flour may be sifted and the bran then replaced. 

76. Graliain Bread With. Nuts. — To increase the food value 
of graham bread, nuts are sometimes added. This kind of bread 
also provides an agreeable variety to the diet. The following recipe 
is intended to be carried out by the short process, so that if the long 
process is desired the quantity of yeast must be reduced. 

Graham Bread With Nuts 

(Sufficient for Two Loaves) 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 Tb. salt 

2 c. lukewarm liquid 2 c. white flour 

i c. molasses 4 c. graham flour 

2 Tb. fat li c. chopped nuts 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 

Dissolve the yeast in a little of the lukewarm liquid and mix it 

with the molasses., fat, and salt. Add the remaining liquid and the 

white flour. Let this sponge rise until it is light. Then stir in the 

graham flour, adding the nuts while kneading. Let the dough rise 

until it doubles in bulk. Shape into loaves, place it in the greased 

pans, and let it rise until it doubles in size. Bake for an hour or 

more, according to the size of the loaves. 

77. Whole-Wlieat Fruit Bread. — A very delicious whole- 
wheat bread is produced by combining fruit, which, besides improv- 
ing the flavor, adds to the food value of the bread. Thin slices of 
this kind of bread spread with butter make excellent summer sand- 
wiches. If the short process is employed, the amounts specified in 
the following recipe should be used, but for the long process the 
quantity of yeast should be decreased. 

Whole-Wheat Fruit Bread 

(Sufficient for Three Small Loaves) 

1 yeast cake 2 tsp. salt 

2 c. lukewarm liquid 6 c. whole-wheat flour 
2 Tb. fat 1^ c. seeded raisins or 

i c. brown sugar stoned, chopped dates 

1 c. white flour for kneading 
Dissolve the yeast cake in a little of the lukewarm liquid and add 
it to the fat, sugar, and salt that have been put into the mixing bowl. 
Pour in the remainder of the liquid and add half or all of the flour, 



§ 4 BREAD 41 

depending on the bread-making method that is followed. Stir in the 
fruit before all the flour is added and just before the dough is shaped 
into loaves. After it has risen sufficiently in the greased pans, pro- 
ceed with the baking. 

78. Bran Bread. — Bread in which bran is used is proportion- 
ately a trifle lower in food value than that in which whole wheat or 
white flour is used. However, it has the advantage of an additional 
amount of bulk in the form of bran, and because of this it is a 
wholesome food. 

Bran Bread 
(SuiEcient for Two Loaves) 

2 c. milk i c. lukewarm water 

6 Tb. molasses 2 c. white flour 

14 tsp. salt 4 c. graham flour 

I yeast cake 1 c. sterilized bran 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 
Scald the milk and to it add the molasses and salt. When this is 
lukewarm, add to it the yeast cake dissolved in the lukewarm water, 
as well as the white flour and 1 cupful of the graham flour. Cover 
this mixture and let it rise. When it has risen sufficiently, add the 
bran and the rest of the graham flour and knead. Cover this dough, 
and let it rise until it doubles in bulk. Then shape it into loaves, 
place it in the greased pans, let it rise again until it doubles in bulk, 
and bake in a hot oven. 

79. .Rye Bread. — Rye bread has a typical flavor that many 
persons enjoy. When rye flour is used alone, it makes a moist, 
sticky bread ; therefore, in order to produce bread of a good texture, 
wheat flour must be used with the rye flour. The recipe here given 
is for the short process of bread making, but by reducing the quan- 
tity of yeast it may be used for the long process. 

Rye Bread 

(Sufficient for Three Loaves) 

2 Tb. fat 3 c. lukewarm liquid 

1 Tb. salt 6 c. rye flour 

2 Tb. sugar 4 c. white flour 
1 cake compressed yeast 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 

Into the mixing bowl, put the fat, the salt, the sugar, and the yeast 

that has been dissolved in a small quantity of the lukewarm liquid. 

Then stir in the flour, one-half or all of it, according to whether the 

sponge or the straight-dough method is followed. When the dougb 



42 BREAD § ^ 

is formed, allow it to rise until it doubles in bulk ; then knead it and 
shape it into loaves for the greased pans. When these have risen 
until they are double in size and therefore ready for the oven, glaze 
the surface of each by brushing it with the white of egg and water 
and put them in the oven to bake. If desired, caraway seed may be 
added to the dough when it is formed into loaves or simply sprinkled 
on the top of each loaf. To many persons the caraway seed imparts 
a flavor to the bread that is very satisfactory. 

80. Corn Bread. — Corn meal is sometimes combined with 
wheat flour to make corn bread. Such a combination decreases the 
cost of bread at times when corn meal is cheap. Bread of this kind 
is high in food value, because corn meal contains a large proportion 
of fat, which is more or less lacking in white flour. The following 
recipe is given for the short process, but it may be used for the long 
process by merely. decreasing the quantity of yeast. 

Corn Bread 
(Sufficient for Two Loaves) 

1 yeast cake 2 Tb. fat. 

2 c. lukewarm liquid 44 c. white flour 
2 tsp. salt 2 c. corn meal 

1 Tb. sugar 
1 c. white flour additional for kneading 
Put the yeast to soak in i cupful of warm water and let it dissolve. 
Heat the liquid and cool it to lukewarm, and then add to it the salt, 
the sugar, the dissolved yeast, and the melted fat. Make a sponge 
with some of the flour and let it rise until it doubles in bulk. Then 
make a dough with the corn meal and the remaining flour. Knead the 
dough, let it rise again, and form it into loaves. Let these rise in the 
greased pans until they double in bulk ; then bake about 45 minutes. 

81. Rice Bread. — ^Very often variety is given to bread by the 
addition of rice, which imparts an unusual flavor to bread and effects 
a saving of wheat flour. Oatmeal and other cereals may be used in 
the same way as rice, and bread containing any of these moist cereals 
will remain moist longer than bread in which they are not used. 

Rice Bread 

(Sufficient for Three Loaves) 

i c. uncooked rice 1 Tb. fat 

li c. water i yeast cake 

1 Tb. salt 1 c. lukewarm liquid 

1 Tb. sugar 6 c. white flour 

1 c white flour additional for kneading 



§ 4 BREAD 43 

Steam the rice in a double boiler in 1| cupfuls of water until it is 
soft and dry. Add the salt, sugar, and fat, and allow all to become 
lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm liquid, and add it to 
the rice. Put all in the mixing bowl, stir in 2 cupfuls of flour, and 
allow the mixture to become very light. Add the remainder of the 
flour and knead lightly. Let the dough rise until it has doubled in 
bulk and knead to reduce the quantity. Place in greased pans. When 
the loaves have risen sufficiently, bake for about 50 minutes. 

82. Salt-Rising: Bread. — Recipes for bread would be incom- 
plete if mention were not made of salt-rising bread. Such 
bread differs from ordinary bread in that the gas that causes the 
rising is due to the action of bacteria. Salt-rising bread is not 
universally popular, yet many persons are fond of it. Its taste is 
very agreeable, and, as a rule, its texture is excellent; however, it 
always has an unpleasant odor. The method given in the accom- 
panying recipe for salt-rising bread differs in no way from the usual 
method of making it. It is very necessary that the first mixture of 
corn meal, salt, sugar, and milk be kept at a uniformly warm 
temperature in order to induce bacteria to grow. Any failure to 
make such bread successfully will probably be due to the violation 
of this precaution rather than to any other cause. 

Salt-Rising Bread 

(Sufficient for Two Loaves) 

1 c. fresh milk 2 tsp. sugar 

i c. corn meal 2 c. lukewarm water 

1 tsp. salt 7 c. white flour 

I c. white flour additional for kneading 
Scald the milk and pour it over the corn meal, salt, and sugar. 
Allow this mixture to stand in a warm place for several hours or over- 
night, when it should be light. To this batter add the warm water 
and enough flour to make a drop batter. Allow this to stand in a 
warm place until it is light ; and then add the remainder of the flour 
so as to make a dough, and knead. Allow this to rise, shape it into 
loaves, put it in pans, let it rise again, and bake. 



44 



BREAD 



RECIPES FOR ROLIiS, BUNS, AND BISCUITS 

83. While the preceding recipes call for bread in the form of 
loaves, it should be understood that bread may be made up in other 
forms, such as rolls, buns, and biscuits. These forms of bread may- 
be made from any of the bread recipes by adding to the mixture 
shortening, sugar, eggs, fruit, nuts, spices, flavoring, or anything else 
desirable. Since these things in any quantity retard the rising of the 
sponge or dough, they should be added after it has risen at least 
once. Rolls, buns, and biscuits may be made in various shapes, as is 
shown in Fig. 18. To shape them, the dough may be rolled thin and 
then cut with cutters, or the pieces used for them may be pinched 
or cut from the dough and shaped with the hands. After they are 




Fig. 18 



shaped, they should be allowed to rise until they double in bulk. To 
give them a glazed appearance, the surface of each may be brushed 
before baking with milk, with white of egg and water, or with sugar 
and water. Butter is also desirable for this purpose, as it produces 
a crust that is more tender and less likely to be tough. Rolls, buns, 
or biscuits may be baked in an oven that has a higher temperature 
than that required for bread in the form of loaves, as is indicated in 
Fig. 4, and only 15 to 20 minutes is needed for baking them. If 
such forms of bread are desired with a crust covering the entire sur- 
face, they must be placed far enough apart so that the edges will not 
touch when they are baking. 



§4= 



BREAD 



45 



So that experience may be had in the preparation of rolls, buns, and 
biscuits there are given here several recipes that can be worked out 
to advantage, especially after proficiency in bread making has been 
attained. 

84. Parker House Rolls. — Of the various kinds of rolls, 
perhaps none meets with greater favor than the so-called Parker 
House rolls, one of which is shown at a, Fig. 19. Such rolls may be 
used in almost any kind of meal, and since they are brushed with 
butter before they are baked, they may be served without butter, if 
desired, in a meal that includes gravy or fat meat. 

Parker House Rolls 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Rolls) 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 Tb. sugar 

1 pt. lukewarm milk 1 tsp. salt 

4 Tb. fat 3 pt. white flour 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 
Dissolve the yeast in some of the lukewarm milk. Pour the 

remainder of the warm milk over the fat, sugar, salt, and dissolved 

yeast, all of which should first be put in a 

mixing bowl. Stir into these ingredients 

half of the flour, and beat until smooth. 

Cover this sponge and let it rise until it is 

light. Add the remainder of the flour, and 

knead until the dough is smooth and does 

not stick to the board. Place the dough in 

a greased bowl, and let it rise again until 

it doubles in bulk. Roll the dough on a 

molding board until it is about \ inch thick. 

Then 'cut the rolled dough with a round 

cutter; brush each piece with soft butter; 

mark it through the center, as at b, Fig. 19, 

with the dull edge of a kitchen knife; and 

fold it over, as at c. Place the pieces of 

dough thus prepared in shallow pans, about 

1 inch apart, and let them rise until they 

are light, when each roll will appear like 

that shown at d. Then bake them in a hot 

oven for about 15 minutes. Fig. i9 

85. Dinner Rolls. — As their name implies, dinner rolls are an 
especially desirable kind of roll to serve with a dinner. They should 



^ggammr-^-^i 'w^'-^m^ -r^- 




1 


^^Bb^^^ >> j^^ 




H 


■p-- 'J^ 




!■'■ 












Ipw^ 




m 


HF 




i 






■ 






■ 



46 



BREAD 



§4 



be made small enough to be dainty, and as an even, brown crust 
all over the rolls is desirable they should be placed far enough apart 
in the pans to prevent them from touching one another, as shown m 
Fig. 20 (a). If they are placed as in (b), that is, close together, 
only part of the crust will be brown. When made according to the 
accompanying recipe, dinner rolls are very palatable. 

Dinner Rolls 

(Sufficient for IJ Dozen Rolls) 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. lukewarm milk 3 c. white flour 

2 Tb. sugar 1 egg white 
2 Tb. fat 

i c. white ilour additional for kneading 
Dissolve the yeast in some of the lukewarm milk. Put the sugar, 

fat, salt, and dissolved yeast in the mixing bowl, and pour the 

remainder of the milk 
over these ingredients. 
Stir half of the flour 
into this mixture and 
allow the sponge to 
rise. When it is light, 
add the egg white, 
which should first be 
beaten, and the remain- 
der of the flour, and 
then knead the dough. 
Let the dough rise until 
it doubles in bulk. Roll 
out the dough until it 
is i inch thick, and then 
cut out the rolls with a 
small round cutter. 
Place these in a shallow 
pan and let them rise 
until they are light. 
Then glaze each one 
with the white of egg 
to which is added a 

little water and bake them in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. 

86. Luncheon Rolls. — If rolls smaller than dinner rolls are 
desired, luncheon rolls will undoubtedly be just what is wanted. 





§ 4 BREAD 47 

Since these are very small, they become thoroughly baked and are 
therefore likely to be even more digestible than bread or biscuit 
dough baked in a loaf. For rolls of this kind, the following recipe 
will prove satisfactory : 

Luncheon Rolls 
(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Rolls) 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tsp. salt 

1^ c. lukewarm milk 4 c. white flour 

2 Tb. sugar 1 egg white 
2 Tb. fat 

I c. white flour additional for kneading 

Combine the ingredients in the manner directed for making dinner 
rolls. Shape the dough into biscuits the size of a small walnut, place 
them in a shallow pan, spacing them a short distance apart, and let 
them rise until they are light. Next, brush the tops of them with 
melted butter, and then bake them in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. 

87. ■Whole-Wh.eat Rolls. — Rolls made of whole-wheat flour 
are not so common as those made of white flour, and for this 
reason they appeal to the appetite more than ordinary rolls. Whole- 
wheat rolls have the same advantage as bread made of whole- 
wheat flour, and if they are well baked they have a crust that adds 
to their palatableness. 

Whole-Wheat Rolls 
(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Rolls) 

1 pt. lukewarm milk 4 Tb. fat 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 c. white flour 

1 tsp. salt 4 c. whole-wheat flour 

3 Tb. sugar 

J c. white flour additional for kneading 

Set a sponge with the lukewarm milk, in which are put the yeast 
cake, salt, sugar, fat, and white flour. Allow this to become very 
light, and then add the whole-wheat flour. Knead this dough and 
allow it to double in bulk. Then shape it into rolls, allow them to 
rise, and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. 

88. Graham. Nut Buns. — Buns made of graham flour and 
containing nuts are not only especially delightful in flavor, but highly 
nutritious. Because they are high in food value, they may be served 
with a light meal, such as lunch or supper, to add nutrition to it. 
The recipe here given will result in excellent buns if it is followed 
closely. 



48 BREAD § 4= 

Graham Nut Buns 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Buns) 

1 cake compressed yeast 2^ c. white flour 

2 c. lukewarm milk 1 egg 

4 Tb. brown sugar 1 c. chopped nuts 

2 tsp. salt 3i c. graham flour 

2 Tb. fat 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 

Dissolve the yeast in a little of the lukewarm milk. Place the 
sugar, salt, fat, and dissolved yeast in the mixing bowl and add the 
remainder of the warm milk. Stir in the white flour and let 
the sponge thus formed rise. Then add the egg, which should first 
be beaten, the nuts, and the graham flour. Knead the dough and 
shape it into buns. Let these rise and then bake them in a hot oven 
for about 15 minutes. 

89. Nut or Fruit Buns. — Nuts or fruit added to buns made 
of white flour provide more mineral salts and bulk, substances in 
which white flour is lacking. Buns containing either of these ingre- 
dients, therefore, are especially valuable in the diet. Besides increas- 
ing the food value of the buns, nuts and fruit improve the flavor 
and make a very palatable form of bun. Buns of this kind are made 
as follows : 

Nut or Fruit Buns 
(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Buns) 

4 Tb. sugar 1 c. lukewarm milk 

1 Tb. fat 3 c. white flour 

1 tsp. salt f c. chopped nuts or 

1 cake compressed yeast raisins 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 
Add the sugar, fat, and salt to the yeast dissolved in a little of 
the milk. Then stir in the remainder of the milk and half of the 
flour. Allow this sponge to rise until it is very light, and then add 
the remainder of the flour and the nuts or the raisins. Knead at 
once and form into buns. Let these rise until they are light. Then 
moisten them with milk and sprinkle sugar over them before placing 
them in the oven. Bake for about 15 minutes. 

90. Sweet Buns. — Persons who prefer a sweet bun will find 
buns like those shown in Fig. 21 and made according to the following 
recipe very much to their taste. The sweetening, eggs, and lemon 
extract used in this recipe give to the white buns a delightful flavor 
and help to lend variety to the usual kind of bun. 



§4 



BREAD 



49 




Sweet Buns 

(Sufficient for Ih Dozen Buns) 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. lukewarm scalded milk 34 c. white flour 
i c. sugar 2 eggs 

2 Tb. fat 1 tsp. lemon extract 

1 c. white flour additional for kneading 
Dissolve the yeast in a small amount of the lukewarm milk and 
add it to the sugar, fat, salt, and remaining milk in the mixing 
bowl. Stir into this 
mixture half of the 
flour, beat well, and 
let the sponge rise un- 
til it is light. Add the 
eggs, which should 
first be beaten, the 
lemon extract, and 
the remaining flour. 
Knead until the dough 
is smooth. Let the Fig. 21 

dough rise again and then shape it into rolls. Allow these to rise, 
and then bake them in a hot oven for about IS minutes. 

91. Coffee Cake. — ^\Vhen an especially good kind of biscuit 
that can be served for breakfast and eaten with coffee is desired, 
coffee cake made according to the following recipe should be used. 
Cinnamon sprinkled over the top of such cake imparts a very pleas- 
ing flavor, but if more of this flavor is preferred 1 teaspoonful of 
cinnamon may be mixed with the dough. 

Coffee Cake 

(Sufficient for One Cake) 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 c. white flour 

i c. lukewarm milk 1 egg 

1 Tb. sugar 2 Tb. fat 

i tsp. salt i c. brown sugar 

I c. white flour additional for kneading 

Dissolve the yeast in the lukewarm milk and add the sugar and 
the salt. Stir in 1 cupful of flour and let the mixture rise. When 
the sponge is light, add the beaten egg, the fat and the brown 
sugar creamed, and the remaining flour. Knead until the dough is 
smooth and allow it to rise until it is double in bulk. Then roll the 
dough until it is -J inch thick, place it in a shallow pan, and let it rise 



50 



BREAD 



§4 



until it is light. Brush the top with 1 tablespoonful of melted butter 
and sprinkle it with 3 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Bake 10 to 15 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

92. Cinnamon Rolls. — To make cinnamon rolls, which are 
preferred by some persons to coffee cake, use may be made of the 




Fig. 22 



preceding coffee-cake recipe. However, instead of rolling the dough 
i inch thick, roll it i inch thick and brush it with melted butter. 




Fig. 23 



Then sprinkle it with 1 tablespoonful of cinnamon, | cupful of licrht- 
brown sugar, and i cupful of chopped raisins. Next, roll this as 
a jelly roll and cut the roll into J-inch slices, as shown in Fig. 22. 



§ 4 BREAD 51 

Place these slices close together in a shallow pan and let them rise 
until they are light, as in Fig. 23. Then bake them in a hot oven for 
about IS minutes. 



TOAST 

93. As every one knows, toast is sliced bread browned by 
means of heat. To make toast is not a difficult process, but a certain 
amount of care must be exercised if good results are desired. The 
slices used for toast may be cut thick or thin, depending on whether 
the persons for whom the toast is made prefer a soft or a dry toast 
and whether the digestibility of the toast is to be taken into consider- 
ation. If thick slices are used and they are toasted the usual length 
of time necessary to make the surfaces brown, the center of the 
slices will remain soft. Toast made of thin slices and toasted over 
a slow fire becomes dry and crisp during the process of browning 
and is more digestible than that which is moist. Such toast will not 
lose its crispness unless the pieces are piled in a heap while they are 
hot and are allowed to soften from the moisture that collects. While 
toast is usually served in the form of slices, just as they are cut from 
the loaf, the pieces may be cut into shapes of various kinds ; in fact, 
toast becomes more attractive if it is cut in unusual shapes. The 
crust of toast may be trimmed off or left on, as desired. 

94. If the best results are desired in the making of toast, con- 
siderable attention must be given to the heat that is to produce the 
toast. Whatever kind is employed, it should be steady and without 
flame. Before a coal or a coke fire is used for this purpose, it should 
be allowed to burn down until the flame is gone and the coals are hot 
enough to reflect the heat for toasting. If a gas toaster is used, the 
gas should be turned sufificiently low for the bread to brown slowly. 
Very good results are obtained from the use of an electric toaster, 
also. This device has become a rather common household article 
where electricity is used in the home, and by means of it the toast 
can be made on the table and served while it is fresh and hot. In 
whatever way toast is made, it will lose much of its attractiveness 
unless it is served while it is fresh and before it loses its heat. If toast 
becomes burned, either from a flame that is too hot or from inatten- 
tion on the part of the person who is preparing it, it may be made 
fit for use by scraping it lightly with a knife or by rubbing it across 
a grater, so as to remove the burned portion. 



52 BREAD § ^ 

95. Milk Toast. — Milk and toast make a combination that is 
liked by many persons, and when these two foods are combined the 
result is known as milk toast. To make milk toast, simply pour over 
the toast rich milk that has been heated and seasoned with salt, a 
little sugar, and a little butter. Thin white sauce may also be used 
for this purpose if desired. 

96. French Toast. — Possibly no dish in which toast is used is 
better known than the so-called French toast. Both milk and egg 
are used in making this dish, and these of course add to the food 
value of the bread. French toast made according to the following 
recipe will prove very satisfactory. 

French Toast 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 egg 2 tsp. sugar 

1 c. milk 8 slices of bread 

i tsp. salt 

Beat the egg and add it to the milk, salt, and sugar. Dip each 
slice of bread into this liquid, turn it quickly, and then remove it. 
Place the bread thus dipped in a hot frying pan and saute it until the 
under side is brown ; then turn it and brown the other side. Serve 
hot with sirup or jelly. 

LEFT-OVER BREAD 

97. Bread that has become stale need not be wasted, for there 
are many uses to which it may be put. As such bread has lost much 
of its moisture, it is desirable for toast, for it browns more quickly 
and makes crisper toast than fresh bread. Thick slices of it may 
also be cut into cubes or long, narrow strips and then toasted on all 
sides, to be served with soup instead of crackers. Still another use 
that can be made of stale bread is to toast it and then cut it into 
triangular pieces to be served with creamed dishes or used as a 
garnish for meats, eggs, and various entrees. Left-over toast may 
also be cut in this way and used for these purposes. 

98. The ends of loaves, crusts trimmed from bread used for 
sandwiches, or stale bread or rolls that cannot be used for the pur- 
poses that have been mentioned can also be utilized, so none of them 
need be thrown away. If such pieces are saved and allowed to dry 
thoroughly in the warming oven or in an oven that is not very hot, 
they may be broken into crumbs by putting them through a food 



§ 4 BREAD 53 

chopper or rolling them with a rolling pin. After the crumbs are 
obtained, they should be put through a coarse sieve in order to 
separate the coarse ones from the fine ones. Such crumbs, both 
coarse and fine, may be kept for some time if they are put into jars 
or cans. 

It is a very good plan to keep a supply of bread crumbs on hand, for 
there are numerous dishes that require the use of bread in this form. 
For instance, bread crumbs are used for all kinds of scalloped dishes ; 
for making puddings, such as bread pudding, brown Betty, etc. ; for 
stuffing fish, fowl, and such vegetables as tomatoes and peppers; 
for covering the top of baked dishes, such as various egg and cheese 
dishes ; for breading steaks and chops ; and for covering croquettes 
or oysters that are to be fried. They may also be added to muffins, 
griddle cakes, and even yeast-bread dough. With so many uses to 
which bread crumbs can be put, no housewife need be at a loss to 
know how to utilize any scraps of bread that are not, for some 
reason, suitable for the table. 



W I— C 1—14 



BREAD 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Mention the ingredients required for bread making. 

(2) From what kind of wheat is bread flour usually made? 

(,3) (o) What is gluten? (&) Why is it necessary for the making of 
bread ? 

(4) (a) What is meant by a blend flour? (6) When is its use indicated? 

(5) How may the kind and quality of flour be judged in purchasing it? 

(6) (o) What is yeast? (6) What things are necessary for its growth? 
(c) What temperature is best for its growth? 

(7) (o) What is produced by the growth of yeast? (6) What part does 
this play in bread making? 

(8) What determines the quantity of yeast to use in bread making? 

(9) (o) What will hasten the bread-makmg process? (6) What will 
retard it? 

(10) Give the general proportions of the main ingredients used for making 
a loaf of bread. 

(11) What are the advantages of : (a) the long process of bread making? 
(6) the quick process ? 

(12) What is: (o) a sponge? (6) a dough? 

(13) (o) Why must bread dough be kneaded? (6) How is it possible 
to tell when dough has been kneaded sufKciently? 

(14) At what temperature should bread be kneaded? 

(15) How should bread be cared for after it is removed from the oven? 

(16) What points are considered in the scoring of bread? 

(17) What part of bread making may be done in a bread mixer? 

(18) What are the differences in time and oven temperatures in baking rolls 
and bread? 

(19) Mention briefly the procedure in making rolls, buns, and biscuits. 

(20) Score a loaf of bread you have made and submit the points as you 
have scored it 

§4 



HOT BREADS 



REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESSES FOR MAKING 
HOT BREADS 



HOT BREADS IN THE DIET 

1. Closely related to yeast breads, or those in which yeast is used 
as the leavening agent, are breads known as hot breads, or quick 
breads. As these names indicate, such breads are prepared in a 
very short time and are intended to be served while they are fresh 
and hot. Hot breads, to call such breads by the name in common use, 
are made by baking a batter or a dough mixture formed by mixing 
flour, liquid, salt, and a leavening agent. The nature of the mixture, 
however, is governed by the proportion of flour and liquid, the two 
ingredients that form the basis of all bread mixtures ; and by incor- 
porating with them such ingredients as eggs, sugar, shortening, 
flavoring, fruits, nuts, etc. there may be produced an almost endless 
variety of appetizing hot breads, which include popovers, griddle 
cakes, waffles, muffins, soft gingerbread, corn cake or corn bread, 
Boston brown bread, nut loaf, and baking-powder and beaten biscuit. 
Because of the variety these hot breads afford, they help considerably 
to relieve the monotony of meals. In fact, the housewife has come 
to depend so much on breads of this kind that their use has become 
almost universal. As is well known, however, certain kinds are 
typical of certain localities ; for instance, beaten biscuit and hoe cake 
are characteristic of the Southern States of the United States, while 
Boston brown bread is used most extensively in the New England 
States and throughout the East. The popular opinion of most per- 
sons is that hot breads are injurious. It is perhaps true that they 
may be injurious to individuals afflicted with some digestive distur- 
bance, but, at any rate, the harmful effect may be reduced to a 
minimum by the correct preparation and baking of these foods. 

COPVRIOHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§5 



HOT BREADS § 5 



PRINCIPAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HOT BREADS 

2. Hot breads are quickly and easily made, but in this part of 
cookery, as in every other phase of it, certain principles must be 
understood and applied if the most satisfactory results are desired. 
These principles pertain chiefly to the ingredients used, the way in 
which they are measured and handled, the proportions in which they 
are combined, the necessary utensils, and the proper baking of the 
mixtures that are formed. 

In the first place, the quality of the ingredients should be carefully 
considered, because on this depends the quality of the finished prod- 
uct. No one who prepares foods can expect good food to result 
from the use of inferior materials. Next, the proportion of the 
ingredients demands attention, for much importance is attached to 
this point. For instance, in making a certain kind of hot bread, the 
quantity of flour to be used is regulated by the quantity of bread that 
is desired, and the quantity of flour governs, in turn, the quantities 
of liquid, leavening, and other ingredients that are to be put into the 
mixture. When the proportions of ingredients required for a hot 
bread are known, it is necessary that the ingredients be measured 
very accurately. Leavening material, for example, will serve to make 
clear the need for accuracy in measuring. A definite quantity of 
leavening will do only a definite amount of work. Therefore, if too 
little or too much is used, unsatisfactory results may be expected; 
and, as with this ingredient, so it is with all the materials used for hot 
breads. 

The handling of the ingredients and the mixture has also much 
influence on the success with which hot breads are produced. A 
heavy touch and excessive handling, both of which are usually char- 
acteristic of the beginner, are more likely to result in a tough product 
than is the light, careful handling of the expert. However, as skill 
in this matter comes with practice, no discouragement need result if 
successful results are not forthcoming at the very start in this work. 
A good rule to follow in this particular, and one that has few excep- 
tions, is to handle and stir the ingredients only enough to blend them 
properly. 

In addition to the matters just mentioned, the utensils in which to 
combine the hot-bread materials and bake the batters or doughs are 
of importance. While none of these is complicated, each must be of 
the right kind if the best results are expected. The final point to 



§5 HOT BREADS 3 

which attention must be given is the baking of this food. Proper 
baking requires on the part of the housewife familiarity with the 
oven that is to be used, accuracy in judging temperature, and a 
knowledge of the principles underlying the process of baking. 



LEAVENING AGENTS 



CLASSES OF LBAVBIVING AGENTS 

3. As has been pointed out, the ingredients that are actually 
required in the making of hot breads are flour, liquid, salt, and 
leavening, and to give variety to breads of this kind, numerous other 
materials, including sugar, shortening, eggs, fruit, nuts, etc., are often 
added. With the exception of leavening agents, none of these ingre- 
dients requires special attention at present ; however, the instruction 
that is given in Bread regarding flour should be kept in mind, as 
should also the fact that all the materials for hot breads should be 
of the best quality that can be obtained. 

As is known by this time, leavening agents are the materials used 
to leaven, or make light, any kind of flour mixture. These agents 
are of three classes, namely, organic, physical, and chemical. The 
organic agent is the oldest recognized leavening material, it being the 
one that is used in the making of yeast breads; but as a complete 
discussion of this class of leavening agents is given in Bread and as 
it is not employed in the making of hot breads, no consideration 
need be given to it here. Physical leavening is accomplished by the 
incorporation of air into a mixture or by the expansion of the water 
into steam, and chemical leavening agents are the most modern and 
accurate of all the agents that have been devised for the quick rising 
of flour mixtures. 

PHYSICAL LEAVENING 

4. Physical leavening consists in aerating, or incorporating 
gas or air into, a mixture that is to be baked, and it is based on the 
principle that air or gas expands, or increases in volume, when 
heated. It is definitely known that when air is incorporated into 
dough and then heated, the air increases -^-j of its own volume for 
each degree that the temperature is increased. For instance, if the 
temperature of an aerated mixture is 65 degrees Fahrenheit when 



4 HOT BREADS § 5 

it is put into the oven, the air or gas will have doubled in volume by 
the time it has reached 338 degrees Fahrenheit. Thus, the success 
of aerated bread depends to some extent on the temperature of the 
mixture when it goes into the oven. The colder it is at that time, the 
greater is the number of degrees it will have to rise before it is suffi- 
ciently baked, and the more opportunity will the gas have to expand. 

5. The air or gas required for physical leavening is incorporated 
into a mixture by beating or folding the batter or dough itself, or by 
folding beaten egg whites into it. If the mixture is thin enough, the 
beating may be done with a spoon or an egg beater ; but if it is thick 
enough to be handled on a board, air may be incorporated into it by 
rolling and folding it repeatedly. If eggs are to be used for aerating 
the batter or dough, the entire egg may be beaten and then added, but 
as more air can be incorporated into the egg whites, the yolks and 
whites are usually beaten separately. To make the white of eggs 
most satisfactory for this purpose, it should be beaten stiff enough 
to stand up well, but not until it becomes dry and begins to break up. 
In adding the beaten egg white, it should be folded carefully and 
lightly into the mixture after all the other ingredients have been com- 
bined. Beaten egg white may be used to lighten any mixture that is 
soft enough to permit it to be folded in. 

6. To insure the best results from mixtures that are to be made 
light by means of physical leavening agents, certain precautions must 
be taken. Such mixtures should be baked as soon as possible after 
the mixing is done, so that the gas or air will not pass out before 
the dough is baked. Likewise, they should be handled as lightly and 
quickly as possible, for a heavy touch and too much handling are 
often the cause of imperfect results. For baking aerated mixtures, 
heavy irons are better than tin muffin pans ; also, the pans that are 
used should be heated before the mixture is put into them, so that 
the batter or dough will begin to expand immediately. Gem irons 
should be filled level with an aerated mixture. 



CHEMICAL LBAVBNING 



7. Chemical leavening is brought about by the action of gas 
produced by an acid and an alkali. All chemical leavening agents are 
similar in their action, and they are composed of an acid and an 
alkali. When an acid and an alkali are brought together in the 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 5 

presence of moisture and fieat, the result is the rapid production of 
carbon dioxide, a gas that expands on being heated, just as all other 
gases do. In expanding, the gas pushes up the batters or doughs, and 
these, when baked, set, or harden, into porous shapes. In addition 
to forming the gas, the acid and the alkali produce a salt that remains 
in the bread, and it is this salt that is responsible for the harmful 
effect usually attributed to chemical leavening agents. 

8. The first chemical leavening agents were devised by house- 
wives themselves. They consisted of a combination of saleratus, an 
alkali made from wood ashes, and sour milk or molasses. The 
results obtained were more or less satisfactory, but never entirely 
accurate or certain. Later on, chemists by employing the same idea 
combined an alkali with an acid in powder form and produced an 
accurate and satisfactory leavening agent in the form of baking 
powder. The discovery of baking powder, however, has not dis- 
placed the use of other combinations that form chemical leavening 
agents, for soda is still combined with sour milk, molasses, and cream 
of tartar in the making of various hot breads. Therefore, so that 
a proper understanding of the various chemical leavening agents 
may be obtained, a discussion of each is here given. 

9. Soda and Sour Milk. — When soda is used with sour milk 
for leavening purposes, the lactic acid in the milk is so acted upon 
by the soda as to produce gas. However, these two ingredients — 
soda and sour milk— do not make an absolutely accurate leavening 
agent, because the quantity of acid in the sour milk varies according 
to the fermentation that has taken place. For example, sour milk 
48 hours old contains more acid than sour milk that is kept under 
the same conditions but is only 24 hours old. 

The proportion of these ingredients that is usually effective in 
batters and doughs for hot breads is i level teaspoonful of soda to 
I pint of sour milk. So as to derive the best results in using these 
chemical leavening agents, it will be well to observe that if they are 
mixed together in a cup the milk will bubble and may, provided the 
quantity is sufficient, run over. These bubbles are caused by the gas 
that is formed when the acid and soda meet, and when they break 
gas escapes, with the result that some of it is lost. Formerly, it was 
the custom to mix these leavening substances in this way, and then 
to add them to the other ingredients. Now, however, in order that 
all gas produced may be kept in the dough mixture, the soda is sifted 



6 HOT BREADS § 5 

in with the dry ingredients and the sour milk is added with the liquid 
ingredients. 

10. A point well worth remembering is that sour milk and soda 
may be substituted for sweet milk and baking powder in a recipe 
that calls for these ingredients by using i teaspoonful of soda to each 
pint of sour milk. This information should prove valuable to the 
housewife, especially if she has accumulated a supply of sour milk 
that should not be wasted. Occasionally it will be found that baking 
powder and soda are required in the same recipe, but. this occurs only 
when an insufficient amount of soda to produce the desired result 
is specified. 

11. Soda and Molasses. — Although molasses, which is a prod- 
uct of sugar cane, is sweet, it contains an acid that is formed by the 
fermentation that continually occurs in it, an evidence of which is 
the tiny bubbles that may be seen in molasses, especially when it is 
kept in a warm place. Because of the presence of this acid, molasses 
may be used with soda to form a chemical leavening agent, and when 
they are combined in hot breads or cake, the chemical action of the 
two produces carbon dioxide. However, accjirate results cannot 
always be obtamed when these ingredients are used, for the degree 
of acidity in molasses is as uncertain as it is in sour milk. Molasses 
that is old or has been kept in a warm place will contain more acid 
than molasses that has been manufactured only a short time or that 
has been kept cool to retard fermentation. 

The proportion of soda to molasses that can usually be relied on 
for hot breads and cakes is i teaspoonful of soda to i cupful of 
molasses, or just twice the quantity of soda that is generally used 
with sour milk. To produce the best results, the molasses should 
be mixed with the liquid ingredients and the soda sifted in with the 
dry ones. As molasses burns very quickly in a hot oven, all breads 
or cakes containing it as an ingredient should be baked in an oven of 
moderate temperature. 

12. Soda and Cream of Tartar. — Some housewives are 
inclined to use soda and cream of tartar for leavening purposes ; but 
there is really no advantage in doing this when baking powder can 
be obtained, for some baking powders are a combination of these 
two ingredients and produce the same result. In fact, the housewife 
cannot measure soda and cream of tartar so accurately as the chemist 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 7 

can combine them in the manufacture of baking powder. Neverthe- 
less, if their use is preferred, they should be measured in the propor- 
tion of twice as much cream of tartar as soda. As in the case of 
soda alone, these leavening agents should be sifted with the dry 
ingredients. A small quantity of cream of tartar is used without 
soda in such mixtures as angel-food cake, in which egg white alone 
is used to make the mixture light. The addition of the cream of 
tartar has the effect of so solidifying the egg white that it holds up 
until the heat of the oven hardens it permanently. 

13. Baking Powder. — ^Without doubt, baking powder is the 
most satisfactory of the chemical leavening agents. It comes in 
three varieties, but they are all similar in composition, for each con- 
tains an alkali in the form of soda and an acid of some kind, as well 
as a filler of starch, which serves to prevent the acid and the alkali 
from acting upon each other. When moisture is added to baking 
powder, chemical action sets in, but it is not very rapid, as is apparent 
when a cake or a muffin mixture is allowed to stand before baking. 
The bubbles of gas that form in such a mixture can easily be observed 
if the mixture is stirred after it has stood for a short time. When 
both moisture and heat are applied to baking powder, however, the 
chemical action that takes place is more rapid, and this accounts for 
its usefulness in baking hot breads and cake. 

14. The price of the different kinds of baking powder, which 
usually varies from 10 cents to 50 cents a pound, is generally an 
indication of the ingredients that they contain. Powders that sell 
for 40 to 50 cents a pound usually contain cream of tartar for the 
acid, the high price of this substance accounting for the price of the 
powder. Powders that may be purchased for 30 to 40 cents a pound 
generally contain acid phosphate of lime, and as this substance is 

' cheaper than cream of tartar, a baking-powder mixture containing 
it may well be sold for less. The cheapest grade of powders, or 
those which sell for 10 to 25 cents a pound, have for their acid a salt 
of aluminum called alum. Still other powders that are sometimes 
made up to sell for 20 to 30 cents a pound contain a mixture of phos- 
phate and alum. 

15. As baking powders vary in price, so do they vary in their 
keeping qualities, their effectiveness, and their tendency toward 
being injurious. Most phosphate and alum powders do not keep so 



8 HOT BREADS § 5 

well IS the cream-of-tartar powders, and the longer they are kept, the 
less effective do they become. The powders that contain phosphate 
yield more gas for each teaspoonful used than do the other varieties. 
Much controversy has taken place with regard to the diflferent kinds 
of baking powder and their effects on the digestive tract, but authori- 
ties have not yet agreed on this matter. However, if foods made 
with the aid of baking powders are not used excessively, no concern 
need be felt as to their injurious effect. The housewife in her choice 
of baking powder should be guided by the price she can afford to 
pay and the results she is able to get after she has become well 
informed as to the effect of the different varieties. She may easily 
become familiar with the composition of baking powder, for a state- 
ment of what substances each kind contains is generally found on the 
label of every variety. This information is invaluable to the house- 
wife, as it will assist her considerably in making a selection. 

16. The proportion of baking powder to be used in a batter or a 
dough is regulated by the quantity of flour employed and not, as is 
the case with soda and molasses or sour milk, by the quantity of 
liquid, the usual proportion being 2 level teaspoonfuls to i cupful of 
flour. Sometimes this proportion is decreased, 6 or 7 teaspoonfuls 
being used instead of 8 to each quart of flour in the making of large 
quantities of some kinds of baked foods. In adding baking powder 
to a mixture, as in adding other dry leavening agents, it should be 
sifted with flour and the other dry ingredients. 

17. Although baking powder may be purchased at various prices, 
a good grade can be made in the home without much effort and 
usually for less than that which can be bought ready made. For 
these reasons, many housewives prefer to make their own. The 
following recipe tells how to make a cream-of-tartar powder that is 
very satisfactory: 

Recipe for Baking Powder 

\ lb. cream of tartar \ lb. corn starch 

\ lb. bicarbonate of soda 

Weigh all the ingredients accurately. If the cream of tartar and 
the bicarbonate of soda are to be purchased from a druggist, it will 
be better for him to weigh them than for the housewife, as he uses 
scales that weigh accurately. After all the ingredients are weighed, 
mix them together thoroughly by sifting them a number of times or 
by shaking them well in a can or a jar on whigh the lid has b?en 



§5 



HOT BREADS 



9 



tightly closed. The baking powder thus made should be kept in a 
can or a jar that may be rendered air-tight by means of a lid, or 
cover. 



HOT-BREAD UTENSILS AND THEIR USE 



PBRPOSE OF UTENSItiS 

18. The utensils required for the making of hot breads consist 
of two kinds : those in which the ingredients are prepared and com- 
bined to form the mixture and those in which the mixture is to be 
baked. As soon as it is known just what ones are needed to carry 
out the recipe for the hot bread that is to be made, they, together 
with the necessary -ingredients, such as milk, fat, flour, baking 
powder, salt, eggs, etc., should be collected and arranged in the 




Big. 1 

manner shown in Fig. 1, so that they will be convenient. Usually, 
much of the success of hot breads depends on the quickness and 
dexterity with which the ingredients are put together, and if the 
person making them has to interrupt her work every now and then 
to get out a utensil, she will find that her results will not be so 
satisfactory and that she will use up more energy than the work 
really demands. The pans in which the mixture is to be baked need 
particular attention, for they should be greased and ready to fill 
before the mixing is begun. If they are to be heated, they should 
be greased and put into the oven a few minutes before the mixture 
is ready to be put into them, so that they may be taken from the 
oven and filled at once. 



10 HOT BREADS § 5 



TJTENSIIiS FOR PREPARING THE MIXTURE 

19. Fig. 1 serves very well to illustrate the utensils required for 
preparing hot-bread mixtures. These consist of a bowl a of the 
proper size for mixing ; a smaller bowl b for beating eggs, provided 
eggs are to be used; two standard half-pint measuring cups c, one 
for dry ingredients and the other for wet ingredients; a table- 
spoon d, a case knife e, and a teaspoon / for measuring and mixing ; 
an egg beater g; and a flour sifter. Of course, if an egg whip is 
preferred, it may take the place of the egg beater, but for some hot- 
bread mixtures use will be found for both of these utensils. 




IITE1VSII,S FOR BAKING THE MIXTURE 

20. The kind of utensil required for the baking of hot-bread 
mixtures depends entirely on the nature of the mixture and the 

recipe that is to be prepared. For 
popovers, popover cups similar to 
those shown in Fig. 2 or gem irons are 
necessary. Muffins require muffin 
pans like those illustrated at h. Fig. 1 ; 
Boston brown breads need cans that 
have tight-fitting lids; soft ginger 
^'°" ^ bread, nut loaf, and com cake are 

baked in loaf pans; baking-powder or beaten biscuits are placed in 
shallow pans or on oiled sheets; griddle cakes must be baked on 
griddles ; and waffles require waffle irons. None of these utensils 
are likely to present any difficulty in their use except griddles and 
waffle irons, so in order that these may be thoroughly understood 
and good results thereby ob- 
tained, explanations of them 
are here given. 

21. Griddles.— A style 
of griddle in common use is 
illustrated in Fig. 3, and 

Fig 3 

while it is circular and has 

a projecting handle, griddles of different shapes and fitted with 
different handles are to be had. Such utensils are made of numerous 
materials, but the most satisfactory ones are constructed of steel. 




§55 



HOT BREADS 



11 



iron, soapstone, and aluminum. Steel and iron griddles must be 
greased before cakes are baked on them so as to prevent the cakes 
from sticking ; for this reason they are less convenient than soapstone 
and aluminum griddles, which do not require any grease. 

The size of griddle to use is governed by the number of persons 
that are to be served. One that is unusually large, however, should 
be. avoided if a gas stove is used for cooking, as it is difficult to heat 
a large griddle evenly on such a stove, and even a small one must be 
shifted frequently so that some spots will not be hotter than others. 
In this respect, a griddle made of aluminum has the advantage over 
the other kinds, for this material conducts the heat evenly over its 
entire surface. 

Before a new steel or iron griddle is used, it must be tempered so 
as to prevent the food that is to be baked on it from sticking. If it 




Fig. 4 



Fig. 5 



is not tempered, much time will be consumed before its surface will 
be in the right condition to permit baking to proceed without diffi- 
culty, and this, of course, will result in wasting considerable food 
material. Tempering may be done by covering the griddle with a 
quantity of fat, placing it over a flame or in a very hot oven, and 
then allowing it to heat thoroughly to such a temperature that the 
fat will burn onto the surface. This same precaution should be 



12 HOT BREADS § 5 

observed with new waffle irons and frying pans made of steel or 
iron if the best results from such utensils are desired. 

22. Waffle Irons. — A waffle iron, as shown in Figs. 4 and 5, 
consists of two corrugated griddles fastened together with a hinge 
in such a way that the surfaces nearly touch when the handles are 
brought together as in Fig. 4 (o). These griddles are so suspended 
in a frame that they may be turned completely over in order to allow 
each side to be exposed to the heat. The waffle iron illustrated in 
Fig. 4, shown closed in view (a) and open in (&), is intended for 
a coal range. In order to use it, a stove lid is removed from one of 
the openings and the waffle iron is set in the opening, which allows 
the griddle part to be turned. The waffle iron shown in Fig. 5 is 
intended for a gas range. As will be noticed, the griddle part rests 
on a base that is deep enough to permit it to be turned. In using a 
waffle iron of either kind, it should be heated while the waffle mixture 
is being prepared; then it should be thoroughly greased on both 
sides. No excess fat, however, should be used, as it will run out 
when the griddle is turned over. 



THE MIXTURE 



VARIETIES OF MIXTURES AND GENERAL PROPORTIONS 

23. Batters and Douglis. — The mixtures from which hot 
breads are produced are of different consistencies, and familiarity 
with them is necessary if good results in the making of such breads 
are desired. This difference in the consistencies is due to the pro- 
portion of flour and liquid used, a small proportion of flour pro- 
ducing a batter and a large proportion, a dough. It will be well to 
note, however, that some kinds of flour thicken a mixture much 
more readily than do others. Experience in the handling of flour 
teaches how to vary the other ingredients of a recipe in order to 
make them correspond to the difference in flour, but the person who 
lacks a knowledge of cookery, or has had very little experience in the 
handling of foods, must know the general proportions that are cor- 
rect under most circumstances. The names of the mixtures that the 
ingredients produce are thin batter, thick batter, soft dough, and 
stiff dough. 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 13 

24. A thin batter is one in which the general proportion of 
liquid and flour is i measure of flour to i measure of liquid. Such 
a batter, when poured, immediately seeks its own level and has the 
consistency of thin cream. The most common examples of thin 
batters are popovers and griddle cakes. 

A thick batter, which is known as a drop, or muffin, hatter, is 
one that is made of 2 measures of flour and i measure of liquid. A 
batter of this kind may be poured, but it will not immediately seek 
its own level. Muffins, gems, puddings, and cakes are made of thick 
batters. 

A soft dough is one whose proportions are 5 measures of flour 
and I measure of liquid. A dough of this kind will stand up alone — 
that is, without support at the sides — and has more of the properties 
of a solid than of a liquid. Baking-powder biscuits, tea rolls, and 
certain kinds of cake are made of this form of dough. 

A stiff dough is made of -^ measures of flour and i measure of 
liquid. Such a dough will not cling to the mixing bowl, can be 
handled with the hands, and will not stick when rolled out on a 
board. Pie crust, hard cookies, and beaten biscuit are made of such 
dough. 

25. Applying Knowledge of General Proportions. 

While the general proportions just mentioned remain the same in the 
majority of cases, they vary somewhat when ingredients other than 
liquid and flour are added. Shortening and eggs in particular change 
the quantity of liquid required, less liquid being necessary when these 
ingredients are used. To get the best results from a new recipe, it is 
always advisable upon reading the recipe to notice the proportions 
that are given and then to try to judge whether they bear a close 
enough resemblance to the general proportions to make a successful 
dish. For instance, if a griddle-cake recipe calls for 3 cupfuls of 
flour and 1 cupful of liquid, the cook who understands what the 
general proportions for such a batter ought to be would know imme- 
diately that the recipe calls for too much flour. Likewise, she would 
know that a recipe for baking-powder biscuits that calls for 2 cupfuls 
of flour and 1 cupful of liquid would make a dough that would be 
too soft to handle. Besides enabling a woman to judge a recipe, a 
knowledge of the correct proportions for things of this kind makes 
it possible for her to combine the ingredients for a certain recipe 
without resorting to a cook booK, or, m other words, to originate a 



14 HOT BREADS § 5 

recipe. Because of the importance of such an understanding, atten- 
tion should always be given to details that will assist in obtaining a 
thorough knowledge of this matter. 



PREPARING THE MIXTURE 

26. Preliminary Preparation of Ingredients. — Before 
the mixing of the ingredients that are to be used in the batters and 
doughs of hot breads is begun, all that are needed for the recipe 
selected should be collected and properly measured. Always sift the 
flour that is to be used for this purpose. This is a rule that never 
varies with regard to flour to be used for any dough mixture or as a 
thickening agent. Then, to prevent the flour from packing too 
solidly, measure it by dipping it into the cup with a spoon. To 
obtain the proper amount, heap the cup and then level it with the 
edge of a knife. Measure with a spoon whatever dry leavening agent 
is called for, and be sure that it does not contain any lumps. If salt, 
sugar, and spices are to be used, measure them carefully. Mix the 
leavening agent, the salt, the sugar, and the other dry ingredients 
with the flour by sifting them together once or twice. Measure the 
butter or other fat by packing it in the spoon and then leveling it 
with a knife. Be particular in measuring the liquid, using neither 
more nor less than is called for. Regarding this ingredient, it should 
always be remembered that when a cupful is required, a half-pint cup 
full to the brim is meant and that any fraction of a cupful should 
be measured with the same exactness. 

27. Combining- the Ingredients. — The manner in which a 
batter or a dough is mixed is very important, for much of the success 
of the finished product depends on the order in which the various 
steps are accomplished. Two general methods of combining the 
ingredients for such mixtures have been devised and either of them 
may be followed, because they produce equally good results. 

In one of these methods, the fat is worked into the dry ingredients 
and the liquid then added. As eggs are usually considered a liquid 
ingredient, they are beaten and added to the rest of the liquid before 
it is mixed with the dry ingredients. However, if eggs are to be used 
for leavening, only the yolks are added with the liquid ingredients, 
the whites being beaten separately and folded in last. 

The other method is used only when the mixtures are to contain 
a small quantity of fat. In this method, all the liquid ingredients, 



§5 HOT BREADS 15 

including the eggs, are first mixed together. Then the dry ingre- 
dients are combined and sifted into the Hquid. The fat is melted last 
and beaten into the dough mixture. If the mixture to be handled is 
a stiff one, the fat should be put in cold, for adding melted fat makes 
the dough soft and sticky and therefore difficult to handle. 



BAKING THE MIXTURE 

28. Regulating the Oven. — ^When the mgredients have been 
properly combined, the mixture is ready to be baked. With the 
exception of waffles and griddle cakes, the baking of which is 
explained in connection with the recipes, all hot breads are baked 
in the oven ; therefore, while the mixture is being prepared, the oven 
should be properly regulated in order that the temperature will be 
just right when it is time to start the baking. Particular thought 
should be given to this matter, for if no attention is paid to the oven 
until the mixture is ready to be baked, it will be necessary to allow 
the mixture to stand until the heat of the oven can be regulated or 
to put it into the oven and run the risk of spoiling the food. To pre- 
vent either of these conditions and to insure success, the fuel, no 
matter what kind is used, should be lighted before mixing is begun, 
so that the oven may be heating while the mixture is being prepared, 
unless, as is sometimes the case, there are steps in the preparation 
of the mixture that consume considerable time. For instance, look- 
ing over raisins and cleaning them or cracking nuts and picking the 
meats out of the shells should be done before the rest of the ingre- 
dients are prepared or the oven is regulated. 

29. Correct Oven Temperatures. — Quick breads that are 
to be baked in the form of loaves require an oven temperature of 
from 350 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Muffins, biscuits, and the 
smaller varieties of these breads need a higher temperature, 425 to 
450 degrees Fahrenheit being best. As they are not so large, the heat 
has less dough through which to penetrate, and consequently the 
baking can be accomplished more quickly. 

30. Determining and Regulating Oven Temperature. 

Regulating the oven and testing its temperature present very little 
difficulty to the housewife of experience, but they are not always 
easy problems for the woman who is learning to cook. However, if 
the untrained and inexperienced cook will observe her oven closely 

W I-C 1—15 



16 HOT BREADS §5 

and determine the results of certain temperatures, she will soon find 
herself becoming more successful in this matter. To assist the 
housewife in this matter, as well as to help in the saving of much 
loss in fuel and in underdone or overdone food, many stoves are 
equipped with an oven thermometer, an indicator, or a thermostat. 
The thermometer is more likely to be reliable than the indicator, as 
it has a column of mercury like that of any other thermometer and is 
graduated ; also, a certain kind may be secured that can be used 
with any sort of oven. The indicator is in the form of a dial with 
a hand attached to a metal spring. This spring contracts and 
expands with the changes in the temperature of the oven and thus 
causes the hand to point out the temperature. The thermostat is a 
device that automatically regulates the heat of the oven. On a stove 
equipped with a thermostat, it is simply necessary to set the device 
at the temperature desired. When this temperature is reached, the 
device keeps it stationary. 

31. If neither an indicator nor a thermometer is available, the 
heat of the oven may be determined in other ways. Some housewives 
test the oven with the hand, and while such a test is more or less 
dependent on experience, those who use it find it very satisfactory. 
If the hand can be held in the oven while 15 is counted slowly, the 
temperature is that of a moderate oven and will be right for the bak- 
ing of loaves. An oven that is of the proper temperature for muffins 
or rolls will permit the hand to be held in it while only 10 is counted 
slowly. Those who do not test with the hand find that placing a piece 
of white paper in the oven is an accurate way of determining its 
temperature. Such paper will turn a delicate brown in 5 minutes 
in a moderate oven, and a deeper brown in 4 minutes in a hot oven. 

32. Proper Placing of tlie Mixture in the Oven. — As is 

pointed out in Essentials of Cookery, Part 1, the top of the oven is 
hotter than the bottom. This truth and the fact that in an oven, as 
in any other space, air expands and rises on becoming heated, are 
points that have much to do with the baking of quick breads, for 
these are mixtures that rise after being placed in the oven. So that 
they may rise properly, they should be placed on the bottom first; 
then, as they become heated, they will have a tendency to rise as the 
air does. If the food is placed near the top first, the heated air 
will be likely to press it down and retard its rising. As soon as the 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 17 

rising is completed and the food has baked sufficiently on the bottom, 
it should be moved up so that it will brown on the top. 

33. Testing the Baked Mixture. — Recipes for baked dishes 
usually state the length of time required to bake them, but such direc- 
tions cannot always be depended on, because the temperature of the 
oven varies at different times. The best way in which to judge 
whether the food has baked the necessary length of time is to apply 
to it one of the reliable tests that have been devised for this purpose. 

Probably the most satisfactory test is to insert a toothpick as deep 
as possible into the center of the loaf. The center, rather than some 
other part of the loaf, is the place where the testing should be done, 
because the heat penetrates a mixture from the outside and the 
center is therefore the last part to bake. If the toothpick comes out 
without particles of dough adhering, the mixture is sufficiently baked 
in that place and consequently throughout the loaf. In case the 
dough sticks to the toothpick, the baking is not completed and will 
have to be continued. Since this is a test that is frequently used, a 
supply of toothpicks, preferably round ones, should be kept in a 
handy place near the stove. 

Another fairly accurate means of testing baked mixtures that do 
not form a very hard crust consists in making a dent in the center 
with the finger. If the dent remains, the baking must be continued, 
but if it springs back into place, the baking is completed. 



SERVING HOT BREADS 

34. Hot breads, in contrast with yeast breads, are intended to 
be eaten hot, and, ro be most satisfactory, should be served as soon 
as possible after they are baked. They usually take the place of 
bread in the meal for which they are served, but there are various 
ways of using them whereby variety is given to them and to the meal. 
A favorite combination with many persons is hot biscuits or muffins 
served with honey. If honey is not available, jam, preserves, or 
sirup may be substituted to advantage. A mixture made like baking- 
powder biscuits and baked or steamed is especially good when served 
with chicken or meat stew poured over it. The same mixture 
sweetened and made a trifle richer may be served with fruit and 
cream for short cake. For afternoon tea, tiny muffins and biscuits 
about the size of a 50-cent piece are very attractive. Then, too, if 



18 



HOT BREADS 



§5 



they are split and buttered, they may be served with salad for a light 
luncheon. 

Hot breads baked in the form of a loaf require some attention 
as far as preparing them for the table is concerned. Gingerbread 
and corn cake are better if they are broken rather than cut while hot. 
In case they are preferred cut, a sharp knife should be employed, 
and, to obtain slices that have a good appearance, the knife should be 
heated and the cutting done before it cools. Usually, gingerbread is 
served plain, but the addition of icing improves it considerably and 
provides a simple cake that can be used for dessert. 



RECIPES FOR HOT BREADS 



POPOVER RECIPES 

35. Popovers. — A delightful change from the puffs, muffins, 
and biscuits that are usually served for breakfast or luncheon is 

afforded by means of popovers, one 
of which is illustrated in Fig. 6. 
Popovers are not difficult to make. 
For them is required a thin batter 
in equal proportions of liquid and 
flour. In giving the method for 
mixing popovers, some of the older 
cook books recommend beating for 
5 minutes just before they are 
baked, because the lightness was 
formerly supposed to be due to 
the air that is incorporated by this 
beating. It is possible, however, 
to make very light popovers with 
only enough beating to mix the 
ingredients thoroughly, and it is 
now known that the rising is due to the expansion of water into 
steam in the mixture. This knowledge is useful in that it saves time 
and energy. 

Popovers 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. flour 1 c. milk 

\ tsp. salt 1 egg 




Fig. 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 19 

Mix the flour, salt, and milk in a bowl, and then drop in the 
unbeaten egg. Beat all with a rotary egg beater until the mixture 
is perfectly smooth and free from lumps. Grease and warm gem 
irons or popover cups. Then fill them about two-thirds full of the 
popover batter. Bake in a moderate oven for about 45 minutes or 
until the popovers can be lifted from the cups and do not shrink 
when removed from the oven. 

36. Popovers With Fruit. — Popovers made according to 
the preceding recipe are particularly good if fruit is added to them. 
To add the fruit, cut a slit in the side of the popovers as soon as 
they are removed from the oven and insert a few spoonfuls of apple 
sauce, marmalade, preserves, jelly, or canned fruit. These may be 
served either warm or cold as a breakfast dish, or they may be 
sprinkled with powdered sugar and served with cream for a dessert 
or a luncheon dish. 

37. Nut Puffs. — An example of a thin batter not in equal pro- 
portions of liquid and flour is afforded by nut puffs. In hot breads 
of this kind, aeration is used as the leavening agent. In order to 
assist with the incorporation of air, the egg yolk is well beaten before 
it is added ; but the greater part of the lightness that is produced is 
due to the egg white, which is beaten and folded in last. The addi- 
tion of nuts to a batter of this kind considerably increases its food 
value. 

Nut Puffs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. flour 1 egg 

2 Tb. sugar 1 Tb. fat 

1 tsp. salt i c. chopped nuts 

1 c. milk 

Sift the flour, sugar, and salt together, and add the milk and beaten 
egg yolk. Melt the fat and add it and the chopped nuts. Beat 
the egg white stiff and fold it into the mixture carefully. Fill hot, 
well-greased gem irons level full of the batter, and bake in a hot oven 
about 20 minutes. 

38. Wliole-Wlieat Puffs. — Puffs in which use is made of 
whole-wheat flour instead of white flour are also an example of a 
thin batter that is made light by aeration. If desired, graham flour 
may be substituted for the whole-wheat flour, but if it is a coarser 
bread will be the result. This coarseness, however, does not refer to 



20 



HOT BREADS 



the texture of the bread, but is due to the quantity of bran in 
graham flour. Whole-wheat puffs, as shown in Fig. 7, are attractive, 




Pig. 7 

and besides they possess the valuable food substances contained in 
whole-wheat flour, eggs, and milk. 

Whole-Wheat Puffs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1^ c. whole-wheat flour 1 c. milk 

2 Tb. sugar 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 1 Tb. fat 

Sift the flour, sugar, and salt together and add the milk and the 
egg yolk, which should be well beaten. Melt the fat and stir it into 
the batter. Beat the egg white stiff, and fold it in carefully. Heat 
well-greased gem irons, fill them level full with the mixture, and bake 
in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 



GRIDDLE-CAKE RECIPES 

39. Procedure in Baking: Griddle Cakes. — During the 
preparation of the batter for griddle cakes, have the griddle 
heating, so that it will be sufficiently hot when the cakes are ready 
to be baked. Each time, before the baking is begun, grease the 
griddle, provided it is the kind that requires greasing, by rubbing 
over it a rind of salt pork or a small cloth pad that has been dipped 
into a dish of grease. In greasing the griddle, see that there is no 
excess of grease, as this burns and produces smoke. 

When the griddle has become hot enough for the batter to sizzle 
when it is put on, the baking may be started. Pour the batter on the 



§5 HOT BREADS 21 

griddle from the lip of a large spoon, so that the cakes will form as 
nearly round as possible. When the top surface is full of bubbles, 
turn the cakes with a spatula or a pancake turner, and allow them to 
brown on the other side. By the time the cakes are sufficiently 
browned on both sides, they should be cooked through and ready to 
serve. If they brown before they have had time to cook through, the 
griddle is too hot and should be cooled by moving it to a cooler part 
of the stove or by reducing the heat. A very important point to 
remember in the baking of griddle cakes is that they should not be 
turned twice, as this has a tendency to make them heavy. 

40. Griddle Cakes. — As is generally known, griddle cakes are 
thin batters that are made light with a chemical leavening agent. 
Eggs are often used in such batters, but it is possible to make very 
excellent griddle cakes without the use of any eggs. It should also 
be remembered that the use of too much egg is more certain to make 
the cakes tough and less palatable than if none is used. The kind of 
flour used for griddle cakes has much to do with the consistency of 
the batter used for them. If, when the first cakes are placed upon 
the griddle, the batter seems to be either too thick or too thin, liquid 
or flour may be added to dilute or thicken the batter until it is of the 
right consistency. For instance, if bread flour is used, more liquid 
may be needed, and if pastry flour is used, more flour may be 
required. 

Griddle Cakes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. flour 1 egg 

5 tsp. baking powder 2J c. milk 

1 tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

i c. sugar 
Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar. Beat the 
egg, add to it the milk, and pour this liquid slowly into the dry 
ingredients. Beat the mixture thoroughly and then add the melted 
fat. Bake the cakes on a hot griddle as soon as possible after the 
batter is mixed. 

41. Sour-Milk Griddle Cakes. — Very delicious griddle cakes 
may be made by using sour milk and soda for the liquid and leaven- 
ing instead of sweet milk and baking powder. Besides being par- 
ticularly appetizing, such cafees serve to use up left-over milk that 
may have soured. There is very little difference between the ingre- 
dients for this recipe and one calling for sweet milk, except that sour 



22 HOT BREADS § 5 

milk, which is a trifle thicker in consistency than sweet milk, requires 
less flour to thicken the mixture. 

Sour-Milk Griddle Cakes 

(SufiScient to Serve Six) 

2i c. flour 1 tsp. soda 

I tsp. salt 2 c. sour milk (not thick) 

2 Tb. sugar 1 egg 

Mix and sift the flour, salt, sugar, and soda. Add to these the sour 
milk and the egg well beaten. If the milk is thick, the quantity 
should be increased accordingly. Beat the mixture thoroughly and 
bake at once on a hot griddle. 

42. Corn Griddle Cakes. — The addition of corn meal to a 
griddle-cake mixture adds variety and food value and produces an 
agreeable flavor. Where corn meal is cheap, it is an economical 
ingredient to use in griddle cakes and other hot breads. 

Corn Griddle Cakes 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. com meal H tsp. salt 
l| c. boiling water | c. sugar 

2 c. milk 1 egg 

2 c. flour 2 Tb. melted fat 
5 tsp. baking powder 

Add the corn meal to the boiling water, boil 5 minutes, and turn 
into a bowl. Then add the milk. Next, mix and sift the flour, 
baking powder, salt, and sugar, and stir them into the first mixture. 
Beat the egg and add to the whole. Finally, stir in the melted fat. 
Bake on a hot griddle. 

43. Rice Griddle Cakes. — If a change in the ordinary griddle 
cakes that are used for breakfast' is desired, rice griddle Ccikes should 
be tried. Besides lending variety, the addition of rice to a griddle- 
cake mixture helps to use up any left-over rice that may have been 
cooked for another purpose. Steamed or boiled rice used for this 
purpose should be broken up with a fork before it is mixed in the 
batter, so that the grains of rice will not stick together in chunks. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2^ c. flour i c. cold cooked rice 

5 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

i c. sugar IJ c. milk 

I tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 23 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt. Work the 
rice into the dry ingredients. Add the egg, well beaten, the milk, and 
the melted fat. Bake on a hot griddle. 

44. Buckwheat Cakes. — Buckwheat flour is used for griddle 
cakes more than for any other purpose. When used in this way 
it has a very typical flavor that most people find very agreeable. 
Many prepared buckwheat flours, to which have been added the 
quantity of leavening agent necessary to raise the mixture, are on 
the market for the convenience of those who do not desire to prepare 
the mixture at home. As a rule, these contain a combination of 
buckwheat and wheat flour. To make cakes from these flours, add 
the required amount of liquid, either milk or water, and a little 
sugar, if necessary, and then proceed to bake them on a griddle. 
While there is no objection to the use of such flours if they are found 
agreeable, it is more expensive to use them than to make up the 
buckwheat mixture at home. A recipe for buckwheat cakes that 
proves very satisfactory is the following: 

Buckwheat Cakes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. scalded milk IJ c. buckwheat flour 

i c. fine bread crumbs | c. white flour 

i tsp. salt 1 Tb. molasses 

I yeast cake i tsp. soda 
f c. lukewarm water 

Pour the scalded milk over the bread crumbs and add the salt. 
Dissolve the yeast cake in 4 cupful of the lukewarm water and add 
this to the bread crumbs and milk. Stir in the buckwheat and the 
white flour, and let the mixture rise overnight. In the morning, stir 
it well and add the molasses, the soda, and i cupful of lukewarm 
water. Bake on a hot griddle. 

If cakes are to be baked the next day, retain J cupful of the batter, 
to which may be added flour, milk, salt, and molasses. By doing 
this each day, a starter may be had for a long period of time. If a 
strong buckwheat flavor is desired, use all buckwheat flour, but if 
only a slight buckwheat flavor is desired, make the proportion of 
wheat flour greater and that of the buckwheat smaller. 



24 



HOT BREADS 



?5 



"WAFFLE RECIPES 

45. Procedure in Baking Waffles. — The procedure in 
making waffles is very similar to that in making griddle cakes. While 
the waffle mixture is being prepared, heat the waffle iron. Then 
grease it thoroughly on both sides with a rind of salt pork or a cloth 
pad dipped in fat, being careful that there is no excess fat, as it will 
run out when the iron is turned over. With the iron properly 
greased and sufficiently hot, place several spoonfuls of the batter 
in the center and close the iron. By so doing, the batter will be 
pressed out to cover the entire surface. In pouring the batter, do 
not cover the entire surface of the iron with batter nor place any 
near the outside edge, for it is liable to run out when the iron is 
closed. In case this happens, be sure to put in less batter the next 
time. Allow the waffle to brown on the side near the fire and then 
turn the iron, so as to brown the other side. When the waffle is 
sufficiently brown, remove it; then grease the iron and repeat the 
process. 

46. "Waffles. — The form of hot bread known as waffles, which 
are illustrated in Fig. 8, offers the housewife an excellent opportunity 




Fig. S 

to add variety to meals. Practically no one dislikes waffles, and they 
are especially appetizing when sprinkled with powdered sugar or 
served with sirup. They are often served with chicken or other gravy. 

Waffles 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. flour 2 eggs 

3 tsp. baking powder 1§ c. milk 

^tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 



§5 



HOT BREADS 



25 



Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together. Beat the yolks 
and whites of the eggs separately. Add the beaten yolks and the 
milk to the dry ingredients and then stir in the melted fat. Beat the 
egg whites stiff and fold them into the batter. Bake according to 
the directions given in Art. 45. 

47. Rice "Waffles. — Rice waffles offer an excellent means of 
utilizing left-over rice. Such waffles are prepared in about the same 
way as the waffles just mentioned. In working the cooked rice into 
the dry ingredients, use should be made of a light motion that will 
not crush the grains, but will separate them from one another. Left- 
over cereals other than rice may also be used in this way. 

Rice Waffles 

(SuSScient to Serve Six) 

If c. flour § c. cooked rice 

2 Tb. sugar 1^ c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

■| tsp. salt 1 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt, and then 
work the rice into the dry ingredients. Add the milk and the well- 
beaten yolk of egg. Stir in the melted fat. Beat the egg white stiff, 
and fold it into the batter. Bake as previously directed. 



MUFFIN RECIPES 

48. Muffins are examples of thick batters with variations. 



This 




Fig. 9 



form of hot bread, an illustration of which is shown in Fig. 9, may 
be baked in a pan like that shown at h, Fig. 1, or in individual tins. 



26 HOT BREADS S 5 

Just as other forms of hot breads assist the housewife in making 
changes or additions to meals, so do muffins, as they are usually 
relished by nearly every one. 

49. Plain Muffins. — Perhaps the simplest form of muffin is 
the plain, or one-egg, muffin, which is illustrated in Fig. 9 and made 
according to the accompanying recipe. To a plain-muffin recipe, 
however, may be added any kind of fruit, nuts, or other ingredients 
to give variety of flavor. Likewise, it may be made richer and 
sweeter and then steamed or baked to be served with a sauce for 
dessert. If it is made still richer and sweeter, the result is a simple 
cake mixture. Any given muffin recipe in which sweet milk is used 
may be made with sour milk by using soda instead of baking powder. 

Plain Muffins 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. flour 1 c. milk 

2 Tb. sugar 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

4 tsp. baking powder 
Mix and sift the flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder, and to 
these add the milk and beaten egg. Then stir in the melted fat. 
Fill well-greased muffin pans about two-thirds full of the mix- 
ture and bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 

50. Blueberry Muffins. — Muffins containing blueberries can 
be made successfully only in blueberry season, but other fruit, as, 
for example, dates, may be used in place of the blueberries. Cran- 
berries are often used in muffins, but to many persons they are not 
agreeable because of the excessive amount of acid they contain. 

Blueberry Muffins 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 Tb. fat 2i c. flour 

i c. sugar i tsp. salt 

1 egg 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. milk 1 c. fresh blueberries 

Cream the fat, and add the sugar gradually. Then stir in the 
beaten egg and milk. Reserve i cupful of flour, and mix the remain- 
der with the salt and the baking powder. Stir the dry ingredients 
into the first mixture. Next, mix the i cupful of flour with the 
berries and fold them into the batter. Fill well-greased muffin pans 
about two-thirds full of the batter, and bake in a hot oven for about 
20 minutes. 



§5 



HOT BREADS 



27 



51. Date Muffins, — The recipe given for blueberry muffins 
may be used for date muffins by substituting dates for blueberries. 
To prepare the dates, wash them in warm water, rinse them in cold 
water, and then dry them between towels. Cut them lengthwise 
along the seed with a sharp knife, remove the seed, and then cut 
each date into three or four pieces. 

52. Corn-Meal Muffins. — To many persons, corn-meal muf- 
fins, an illustration of which is shown in Fig. 10, are more agreeable 
than plain white-flour muffins. Corn meal gives to muffins an attrac- 




FiG. 10 

tive flavor and appearance and increases their food value slightly; 
but perhaps its chief value lies in the variety that results from its use. 

Corn-Meal Muffins 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. corn meal i tsp. salt 

1 c. flour f c. milk 
3 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

2 Tb. sugar 2 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift the corn meal, flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt. 
Add to these the milk and the well-beaten egg, and stir in the melted 
fat. Fill well-greased muffin pans two-thirds full, and bake in a hot 
oven for about 20 minutes. 

53. Graham Muffins. — A pleasing variety in the way of 
muffins is produced by using part graham flour, but whole-wheat 
flour may be substituted for the graham flour in case it is preferred. 
Sour milk is used in the recipe here given, but if there is no sour 
milk in supply, sweet milk and baking powder may be used instead. 



28 HOT BREADS § 5 

with merely the correct proportion of soda for the molasses. If the 
taste of molasses is undesirable, liquid, which may be either sweet 
or sour milk, may be substituted for it. It is an excellent plan to be 
able to substitute one thing for another in recipes of this kind, and 
this may be done if the materials are used in correct proportion. 

Graham Muffins 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. graham flour 1 c. sour milk 

1 c. white flour i c. molasses 

f tsp. soda 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift the graham and the white flour, the soda, and the salt. 
Put the bran that sifts out back into the mixture. Add the milk, 
molasses, and well-beaten egg to the dry ingredients, and then stir 
in the melted fat. Fill well-greased muffin pans two-thirds full and 
bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. 

54. Rice Muffins. — Rice may be combined with white flour in 
the making of muffins if variety is desired. As rice used for this 
purpose is added hot, it may be cooked either purposely for the 
muffins or for something else and only part used for the muffins. 
Cereals other than rice may be used in exactly the same quantity 
and in the same way in making muffins. 

Rice Muffins 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

21 c. flour He. milk 

5 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 
2 Tb. sugar f c. hot, cooked rice 

I tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt, and to these 
add half of the milk and the egg, well beaten. Mix the remaining 
half of the milk with the rice and add it to the mixture. Stir in the 
melted fat last. Fill well-greased muffin pans two-thirds full, and 
bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 

55. Bran Muffins. — The particular value of bran muffins lies 
in the laxative quality that they introduce into the diet. In addition, 
they will be found to be very tasty and superior to many other kinds 
of muffins. Bran for such purposes as this may be bought in pack- 
ages, in the same way as many cereals. 



§5 HOT BREADS 29 

Bran Muffins 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

14 c. white flour 2 c. bran 

i tsp. soda li c. milk 
i tsp. baking powder i c. molasses 

1 tsp. salt 1 egg 

Mix and sift the flour, soda, baking powder, and salt. Then add 
the bran, the milk, the molasses, and the well-beaten egg. Fill well- 
greased muffin pans about t^yo-thirds full, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about 25 minutes. 



CORN-CAKE RECIPES 

56. Corn Cake. — Corn cakes were among the first breads made 
of cereal foods in America, being at first often made of only corn 
meal, water, and salt. These cakes of corn meal were prepared and 
carried on long journeys made by people when there were no means 
of rapid transportation. The cakes did not spoil, were not bulky, 
and contained a great deal of nutriment, so they made a convenient 
kind of food for such purposes and were called journey cakes. 
From this term came the name Johnny cake, which is often applied 
to cake of this kind. The combining of flour, eggs, shortening, and 
sugar makes a cake that does not resemble the original very much, 
but in many localities such cake is still called Johnny cake. The pro- 
portion of corn meal to flour that is used determines to a large extent 
the consistency of the cake; the greater the quantity of corn meal, 
the more the cake will crumble and break into pieces. The addition 
of white flour makes the particles of corn meal adhere, so that most 
persons consider that white flour improves the consistency. 

Corn Cake 

(Sufficient for One Medium-Sized Loaf) 

f c. yellow corn meal 4 tsp. baking powder 

l| c. flour 1 c. milk 

I c. sugar 1 egg 

I tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift the corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder. 
Add the milk and well-beaten egg, and then stir in the melted fat. 
Pour into a well-greased loaf pan and bake in a hot oven for about 
30 minutes. 

57. Soutliern Corn Cake. — In the preceding recipe for corn 
cake, more flour than corn meal is used, but many persons prefer 



30 HOT BREADS § 5 

cake of this kind' made with more corn meal than flour. Southern 
corn cake, which contains more corn meal and less white flour, 
proves very satisfactory to such persons. Therefore, which of 
these recipes should be used depends on the taste of those who are 
to eat the cake. 

Southern Corn Cake 

(Sufficient for One Medium-Sized Loaf) 

1 c. corn meal i c. sugar 

i c. flour f c. milk 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

f tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift together the corn meal, flour, baking powder, salt, and 
sugar. Add to them the milk and well-beaten egg, and stir in the 
melted fat. Pour into a well-greased loaf pan, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven for about 30 minutes. 

58. Molasses Corn Cake. — Molasses corn cake, just as its 
name indicates, is corn cake containing molasses. To those who find 
the taste of molasses agreeable, this recipe will appeal. Others not 
so fond of molasses will, without doubt, prefer the plain com cake. 
Besides adding flavor, the molasses in this recipe adds food value 
to the product. 

Molasses Corn Cake 
(Sufficient for One Medium-Sized Loaf) 

1 c. corn meal 3 c. milk 

f c. flour i c. molasses 

si tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

1 tsp. salt 2 Tb. melted fat 

Mix and sift the corn meal, flour, baking powder, and salt. Add 
the milk, molasses, and well-beaten egg and stir in the melted fat. 
Pour into a well-greased loaf pan, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about 30 minutes. 



BISCUIT RECIPES 
59. Baking-Powder Biscuits. — The ability of the housewife 
as a cook is very often judged by the biscuits she makes ; but they are 
really very simple to make, and if recipes are followed carefully 
and measurements are made acc\irately, only a little experience is 
required to produce excellent ones. The principal requirement in 
making baking-powder biscuits, which are illustrated in Fig. H is 
that all the ingredients be kept as cold as possible during the mixing. 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 31 

Tiny, thin biscuits may be split, buttered, and served with tea, while 
larger ones may be served with breakfast or luncheon. In order 




Fig. 11 

to utilize left-over biscuits of this kind, they may be split and 
toasted or dipped quickly into boiling water and heated in a quick 
oven until the surface is dry. 

Baking-Powder Biscuits 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. flour 2 Tb. fat 

1 tsp. salt I c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 

Mix and sift the flour, salt, and baking powder. Chop the fat into 
the dry ingredients until it is in pieces about the size of small peas. 
Pour the milk into the dry ingredients, and mix them just enough to 



^^^^^^^^^B^^' ~"' 


■W 


■ 


■1: ' 










■^HP!^it»ki^^> 


0> ^ * ^'T ■ 


^^K"' 


''-■■■■■ ^--^ 




fena'* " -1 


^^• 


'=**-v. \^ 


^■li C^^BRi^'. 


lMfegy**iili 


W;'v 


\ Jl 




jf^^^m 


Ife*.. 


y jjl 




m- •'?' v 


^^" 


'^ M 












!^^-^ ■ '*.x* ^ 


^k^'^ 


tf^^^ 







Sm!^ 









Fig. 12 

take up the liquid. Make the mixture as moist as possible, and still 
have it in good condition to handle. Then sprinkle flour on a mold- 
ing board, and lift the dough from the mixing bowl to the board. 

W I— C 1—1* 



32 



HOT BREADS 



§S 



Sprinkle flour thinly over the top and pat out the dough until it is 
about 1 inch thick. Cut the dough with a biscuit cutter, and place 




Fig. 13 

the biscuits thus cut out on baking sheets or in shallow pans. If a 
crusty surface is desired, place the biscuits in the pan so that they 
are about an inch apart; but if thick, soft biscuits are preferred, 
place them so that the edges touch. Bake 18 to 20 minutes in a 
hot oven. 

60. Emergency Biscuits. — As shown in Fig. 12, emergency 
biscuits resemble very closely baking-powder biscuits, and so they 




Fic. u 



should, because the recipe given for baking-powder biscuits may be 
used for emergency biscuits by merely adding more milk — just 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 33 

enough to make the dough a trifle too moist to handle with the 
hands. When the dough is of this consistency, drop it by spoonfuls 
in shallow pans, as in Fig. IS, or on baking sheets. Then bake the 
biscuits in a hot oven for 18 to 20 minutes. 

61. Pinwheel Biscuits. — To create variety, a baking-powder 
biscuit mixture may be made into pinwheel biscuits, a kind of hot 
bread that is always pleasing to children. Such biscuits, which are 
illustrated in Fig. 14, differ from cinnamon rolls only in the leaven- 
ing agent used, cinnamon rolls being made with yeast and pinwheel 
biscuits with baking powder. 

Pinwheel Biscuits 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. flour 2 Tb. butter 

1 tsp. salt i c. sugar 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 Tb. cinnamon 

2 Tb. fat f c. chopped raisins 
f c. milk 

To make the dough, combine the ingredients in the same way as 
for baking-powder biscuits. Roll it on a well-floured board until it 




Fig. 15 

is about i inch thick and twice as long as it is wide. Spread the 
surface with the 2 tablespoonf uls of butter. Mix the sugar and cinna- 
mon and sprinkle them evenly over the buttered surface, and on top 
of this sprinkle the chopped raisins. Start with one of the long 
edges and roll the dough carefully toward the opposite long edge, 
as shown in Fig. 15. Then cut the roll into slices 1 inch thick. 
Place these slices in a shallow pan with the cut edges down and the 
sides touching. Bake in a hot oven for about 20 minutes. 



34 HOT BREADS § 5 

62. Beaten Biscuits. — In Fig. 16 is illustrated a form of hot 
bread known as beaten biscuits. Such biscuits are used very exten- 
sively in the South ; in fact, they are usually considered typical of the 
South. Formerly, all the lightness of beaten biscuits was produced 
by beating, but as the mixture is made today it may be run through 



Fig. 16 

a food chopper a few times before it is beaten. If this is done, the 
labor of beating is lessened considerably, beating for 15 to 20 min- 
utes being sufficient. When the beating is finished, the texture of 
the dough should be fine and close and the surface should be smooth 
and fiat. 

Beaten Biscuits 

(Sufficient to Serve Twelve) 

1 qt. pastry flour ^ c. fat 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. milk or water 

Sift the flour and salt and chop in the fat. Moisten with the milk 
or water and form into a mass. Toss this on a floured board, and 
beat it with a roHing pin for 30 minutes, folding the dough over 
every few seconds. Roll the dough i inch in thickness, form 
the biscuits by cutting them out with a small round cutter, and prick 
each one several times with a fork. Place the biscuits on baking 
sheets or in shallow pans, and bake them in a moderate oven for 20 to 
30 minutes. 



§5 



HOT BREADS 



35 



MISCELLANEOUS HOT-BREAD RECIPES 

63. Soft Gingerbread. — As a hot bread for breakfast, soft 
gingerbread like that illustrated in Fig. 17 is very satisfactory, and 
with or without icing it may be served as cake with fruit for 
luncheon. Sweet milk and baking powder are generally used in 




Fig. 17 

gingerbread, but sour milk may be substituted for sweet milk and 
soda in the proper proportion may be used in place of baking pow- 
der. If not too much spice is used in a bread of this kind, it is better 
for children than rich cake, and, as a rule, they are very fond of it. 

Soft Gingerbread 
(Sufficient for One Medium-Sized Loaf) 



1 tsp. cinnamon 

legg 

i c. milk 

i c. molasses 

i c. butter or other fat 



2 c. flour 

2 tsp. baking powder 

i tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 
i tsp. salt 

2 tsp. ginger 

Mix the flour, baking powder, soda, sugar, salt, and spices. Beat 
the egg, add the milk and molasses to it, and stir these into the first 
mixture. Melt the fat and stir it into the batter. Pour the batter 
into a well-greased loaf pan, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
35 minutes. If preferred, the mixture may be poured into individual 
muffin pans and baked in a moderate oven for about 25 minutes. 

64. Boston Brown Bread. — A hot bread that finds favor with 
most persons is Boston brown bread, which is illustrated in Fig. 18. 



36 



HOT BREADS 



§5 



Such bread, instead of being baked in the oven, is steamed for 
3i hours. It may be made plain, according to the accompanying 
recipe, or, to give it variety, raisins or currants may be added to it. 
Boston brown bread may be steamed in an ordinary coifee can, such 
as is shown in Fig. 18, in a large baking-powder can, or in a can 
that is made especially for this purpose. A regular steaming can 
for Boston brown bread is, of course, very convenient, but the other 
cans mentioned are very satisfactory. A point to remember in the 




Fig. 18 

making of brown bread is that the time for steaming should never 
be decreased. Oversteaming will do no harm, but understeaming is 
liable to leave an unbaked place through the center of the loaf. 
Boston Brown Bread 

(Sufficient for One Medium-Sized Loaf) 

1 c. white flour 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. graham flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. corn meal f c. molasses 

f tsp. soda If c. sweet milk 

Mix and sift the flour, corn meal, soda, baking powder, and salt. 
Add the molasses and milk and mix all thoroughly. Grease a can and 
a cover that fits the can tightly. Fill the can two-thirds full of the 
mixture and cover it. Place it in a steamer and steam for 3* hours. 
Dry in a moderate oven for a few minutes before serving. 

65. Nut Loaf. — The use of nuts in a hot bread increases the 
food value and imparts a very delicious flavor. It is therefore very 
attractive to most persons, but it is not a cheap food on account of 
the usual high price of nuts. Thin slices of nut bread spread with 



§ 5 HOT BREADS 37 

butter make very fine sandwiches, which are especially delicious 
when served with tea. 

Nut Loaf 

(Sufficient for One Medium-Sized Loaf) 

2 c. flour 4 Tb. fat 

i c. sugar 1 egg 

4 tsp. baking powder 1 c. milk 

1 tsp. salt i c. English walnuts 

Mix and sift the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt, and then 
work in the fat. Add the egg, well beaten, and the milk, and then 
stir in the nut meats, which should be chopped. Turn into a well- 
greased loaf pan, and bake in a moderate oven for about 45 minutes. 



UTILIZING LEFT-OVER HOT BREADS 

66. As a general rule, not much consideration need be given to 
the utilizing of left-over hot breads, for these are not often baked 
in large quantities and consequently are usually eaten at the meal 
for which they are intended. Still, if any should be left over, they 
should never be wasted, for there are various ways in which they 
may be used. The small varieties, such as muffins, biscuits, etc., may 
be freshened so that they will be almost as good as when first baked 
by putting them into a hot oven for a few minutes. If they are 
quite stale, they should be dipped quickly into hot water before 
being placed in the oven. The moisture on the surface is driven into 
the interior of the bread by the intense heat, with the result that the 
biscuits become moist and appear as fresh as they did formerly. 
If it is not desired to freshen them in this way, biscuits, muffins, and 
even pieces of corn bread that have become slightly stale may be 
made delicious by splitting them and then toasting them. 



LUNCHEON MENU 

67. As in the preceding Sections, there is here submitted a menu 
that should be worked out and reported on at the same time that the 
answers to the Examination Questions are sent in. This menu is 
planned to serve six persons, but, as in the case of the other menus, 
it may be increased or decreased to meet requirements. The recipe 
for macaroni with cheese and tomatoes may be found in Cereals, and 



38 HOT BREADS §5 

that for baking-powder biscuit, as well as that for popovers with 
apple sauce, in this Section. Recipes for the remainder of the items 
follow the menu. 

MENU 

Macaroni With Cheese and Tomatoes 

Baking-Powder Biscuit Jam 

Watercress-and-Celery Salad 

Popovers Filled With Apple Sauce 

Tea 



RECIPES 

Watercress-and-Celery Salad 

Arrange on each salad plate a bed of watercress, or, if it is impos- 
sible to obtain this, shred lettuce by cutting it in narrow strips across 
the leaf and use it instead of the watercress. Dice one or two stems 
of celery, depending on the size, and place the diced pieces on top 
of the watercress or the lettuce. Pour over each serving about 
2 teaspoonf uls of French dressing made as follows : 

i tsp. salt 6 Tb. oil 

i tsp. pepper 2 Tb. vinegar 

i tsp. paprika 

Mix the salt, pepper, and paprika, and beat the oil into them until 
it forms an emulsion. Add the vinegar gradually, a few drops at a 
time, and continue the beating. Pour the dressing over the salad. 

Tea 

Measure 1 teaspoonf ul of tea for each cupful that is to be served. 
Scald the teapot, put the tea into it, and add the required number 
of cups of freshly boiling water. Allow it to steep until the desired 
strength is obtained. Serve at once, or pour from the leaves, serving 
cream and sugar with it if desired. 



HOT BREADS 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (o) In what way do hot breads differ from yeast breads? (6) What 
are the principal ingredients of hot-bread batters and doughs ? 

(2) (a) What is a leavening agent? (&) What is the effect of leavening 
agents on batters and doughs? 

(3) (a) How is physical leavening accomplished? (b) On what does the 
success of breads raised by physical leavening depend? 

(4) (a) How is chemical leavening brought about? (6) What two things 
must be supplied to produce the best action of a chemical leavening agent for 
making a flour mixture light? 

(5) Why are soda and sour milk and soda and molasses not accurate 
leavening agents? 

(6) In making a batter or a dough, how much soda should be used with: 
(o) each cupful of sour milk? (6) each cupful of molasses? 

(7) How should soda and sour milk or soda and molasses be combined 
with the other ingredients of a hot-bread mixture? 

(8) (o) In hot-bread batters and doughs, how much baking powder should 
be used to 1 cupful of flour? (6) How should baking powder be combined with 
the other ingredients ? 

(9) Mention, in the order they should be carried out, the steps for making 
and baking a dough mixture. 

(10) Tell what general proportion of liquid and flour is usually used for: 
(o) a thin batter; (6) a thick batter; (c) a soft dough; (d) a stiff dough. 

(11) Give examples of hot breads made from: (o) thin batters; (6) thick 
batters; (c) soft doughs; (d) stiff doughs. 

(12) What will cause a change in the general- proportions of liquid and 
flour for a batter or a dough? 

(13) Ebcplain briefly the two general methods of combining ingredients 
for hot-bread mixtures. 

(14) What is the approximate temperature for: (o) a moderate oven? 
(&) a hot oven? 

§5 



2 HOT BREADS §5 

(15) Mention a simple test for: (a) a moderate oven; (&) a hot oven. 

(16) How may hot breads be tested in order to determine whether or not 
they are properly baked ? 

(17) Why are baking-powder biscuits and popovers mixed differently? 

(18) (o) Why does a loaf of nut bread require longer baking than muflSns? 
(6) Which should be baked in a moderate oven? 

(19) Why should gingerbread be baked in a moderate oven? 

(20) Make a recipe for muffins, using 2 cupfuls of flour and sour milk and 
soda for liquid and leavening. 



REPORT OJf MENTT 

After trying out the luncheon menu given in the text, send with your answers 
to the Examination Questions a report of your success. In making out your 
report, simply write the name of the food and describe its condition by means of 
the terms specified here. 

Macaroni With Cheese and Tomatoes : cooked sufficiently ? properly fla- 
vored? too much salt? not enough salt? too much liquid? too little liquid? 

Baking- Powder Biscuit: tender? tough? light? heavy? good texture? poor 
texture? sufficiently baked? underdone? overdone? sufficient salt? 

Watercress-and-Celery Salad: appearance attractive? dressing well mixed? 
properly seasoned? 

Popovers Filled With Apple Sauce: tender? tough? vmderdone (this is 
observed by shrinking or falling after removing the popovers from the popover 
cups) ? overdone? 

Tea: strong? weak? clear? hot? bitter? 



INDE.X 



Note. — In this Volume, each Section is complete in itself and has a number, which, 
together with the section mark (§), is printed at the top of every page of the Section. 
To find a reference, glance along the inside edges of the headlines until you find the 
desired Section number and then along the outside edges until you find the desired 
page. Thus, to find the reference, "Luncheon Menu, §S, p37," turn to the Section marked 
§5 and then to page 37 of that Section. 

A Baking powder. Recipe for, §5, p8 

Purpose of bread, §4, p29 
the hot-bread mixture, §5, pl5 
the hot-bread mixture. Utensils for, §5, plO 
Time for bread, §4, p30 
waffles, Procedure in, §5, p24 
Balanced diet, Elements of a, §1, pll 
Banana, Composition of, §li pl6 
Banking a coal fire, §1, p41 
Barley, §3, p35 
Left-over, §3, p37 
Pearl, §3, p35 
Recipes for, §3, p36 
Use and origin of, §3, p35 
with fruit. Pearl, §3, p36 
Batter, Thick, §5, pl3 

Thin, §S, pl3 
Batters and doughs, §5, pl2 
Bean, Composition of dry navy, §1, pl7 
Composition of fresh shelled, §1, pl7 
Composition of green string, §1, pl7 
Beaten biscuits, §5, p34 
Beating of food ingredients, §2, plO 
Bechamel, Meaning of, §2, p35 
Beech wheat, §3, p37 
Beef, Composition of dried, §1, pl8 
steak. Composition of, §1, pl8 
suet. Composition of, §1, pl9 
Berry huller, §2, p5 
Biscuit glace, §2, p35 

recipes, §5, p30 
Biscuits, Baking-powder, §5, p30 
Beaten, §5, p34 
Emergency, §5, p32 
rolls, and buns. Recipes for, §4, p44 
Bisque, Meaning of, §2, p35 
Bituminous, or soft, coal, §1, p32 
Blanching foods, §2, p9 
Blend flour, §4, p5 
Blueberry muffins, §S, p26 
Body, Function of water in the, §1, p25 



Abbreviations of measures, §2, pl7 
Absorption and digestion of food, §1, pl3 

of food, §1, p6 
Abundance of production of cereals, §3, pi 
Acquiring skill in bread making, §4, pl6 
Action of yeast, §4, plO 
Adjusting cook-stove dampers, §1, p41 
Agents, Classes of leavening, §5, p3 

Leavening, §5, p3 
Aids, Yeast, §4, pl3 

A la, au, and aux. Meaning of terms, 
§2, p35 

la Creole, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Albumin, §1, p8 

Effect of cooking on, §1, p8 
Aluminum cooking utensils, §2, p2 
Anthracite, or hard, coal, §1, p32 
Apple, Composition ot, §1, pl6 

corer, §2, pS 
Artificial gas, §1, p34 
Ash, or mineral salts, §1, p7 

pan, Coal-stove, §1, p39 

pit, Coal-stove, §1, p39 
Au gratin. Meaning of, §2, p35 

naturel. Meaning of, §2, p35 
Avoirdupois weight, §2, pl5 



Bacon, Composition of, §1, pl9 

Bacteria, §2, p20 

Baked hot breads. Testing, §5, pl7 

potatoes, §2, p32 
Bakers' flour, §4, p8 
Baking bread, §4, p29 

Distinction between roasting and, §1, p25 

griddle cakes, Procedure in, §5, p20 

Meaning of, §1, p24 

Oven temperature for bread, §4, p29 

powder, §5, p7 

-powder biscuits, §5, p30 



11 



INDEX 



Boiled coffee, §3, p48 

rice, §3, p27 
Boiler, Cooking cereals in double, §3, pl3 
Boiling, §1, p27 

Cooking cereals by, §3, pl3 

on foods. Effect of, §1, p27 

point, §1, p27 

rice, §3, p27 

to sterilize water, §1, p28 
Boston brown bread, §5, p35 
Bouchees, Meaning of< §2, p35 
Boudin, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Bouquet of herbs, §2, p36 
Boxes, Window, §2, p28 
Braizing, §1, p30 
Bran bread, §4, p41 

muffins, §5, p28 
Bread, §4, pi 

after baking, Care of, §4, p30 

and cake mixer, §2, p5 

as food. Importance of, §4, pi 

Baking, §4, p29 

Baking hot, §5, pl5 

Boston brown, §5, p3S 

Bran, |4, p41 

Composition of corn, §1, pl4 

Composition of rye, §1, pl4 

Composition of toasted, §1, pl4 

Composition of whole-wheat, §4, pl4 

Convenient equipment for making, §4, pl6 

Corn, §4, p42 

Distinction between hot and leavened, 
§4, p2 

dough, Care of the rising, |4, p21 

dough. Kneading, §4, p24 

dough, Motions used in kneading, §4, p25 

dough. Purpose of kneading, §4, p24 

Graham, §4, p39 

Hot, §4, p2 

ingredients. Quick -process, sponge meth- 
od of combining, §4, p20 

Leavened, §4, p2 

Left-over, §4, p52 

Long-process, sponge method of making, 
§4, pl9 

making, Acquiring skill in, §4, pl6 

making, Combining the ingredients in, 
§4. pl8 

making. Convenient equipment for, §4, 
pl6 

making. Ingredients for, §4, p3 

making, Long process of, §4, pl9 

making. Long-process, sponge method of, 
§4, pl9 

making, Long-process, straight -dough 
method of, §4, p20 

-making materials. Proportion of, §4, pl4 

making, Necessary equipment for, §4, pl5 

-making processes, §4, pl6 

making, Quick process of, §4, p20 



Bread making, Quick-process, sponge 
method of, §4, p20 

making. Quick-process, straight-dough 
method of, §4, p21 

-making requirements, |4, pi 

making. Utensils for, §4, plS 

Milk and fat in, §4, pl4 

mixer. Use of, §4, p34 

mixers, §2, pS 

mixture, Preparation of hot-, §5, pl4 

Object of scoring, §4, p32 

Oven temperature for baking, §4, p29 

Purpose of baking, §4, p29 

Quick, §4, p2 

recipes, §4, p36 

Rice, §4, p42 

Rye, §4, p41 

Salt-rising, §4, p43 

Scoring, §4, p32 

Serving, §4, p35 

sponge, §4, pl9 

Utilizing left-over hot, §5, p37 

White, §4, p37 

Whole-wheat, §4, p39 

Whole-wheat fruit, §4, p40 

with nuts, Graham, §4, plO 
Breads, Correct oven temperature for hot, 
§5, pl5 

Distinction between yeast and hot, §4, p2 

General proportions used in hot, §5, pl2 

Hot, §5, pi 

in the diet, Hot, §5, pi 

Mixtures used for hot, §5, pl2 

Principal requirements for hot, §5, p2 

Purpose of utensils for making hot, |5, p9 

Quick, §5, pi 

Recipes for hot, §S, pl8 

Requirements and processes for making 
hot, |5, pi 

Serving hot, §5, pl7 

Varieties of mixtiu'es in hot, §5, pl2 
Breakfast food. Composition of cooked oat, 
§1, pM 

foods. Meaning of, §3, p3 

menu, §3, p47 
Broiling, §1, p23 

Pan, §1, p24 
Brown bread, Boston, §5, p3S 
Browned rice, §3, p29 

Browning, or toasting, of cereals, §3, pl4 
Buckwheat, §3, p37 

cakes, §5, p23 

Composition of, §1, pl4 

Description of, §3, pl7 

rye, and millet, §3, p37 
Building a coal fire, §1, p40 
Buns, Fruit or nut, §4, p48 

Graham nut, §4, p47 

Nut or fruit, |4, p8 

rolls, and biscuits, §4, p44 



INDEX 



Buns, Sweet, §4, p48 

Butter, Composition of, §1, pl9 

Composition of peanut, §1, p20 
Buttered hominy, §3, pl8 

toast, §3, p47 
Buttermilk, Composition of, §1, pl5 



Cabbage salad, §2, p33 

-salad dressing, §2, p33 
Cafe au lait. Meaning of, §2, p36 

noir. Meaning of, §2, p36 
Cake, Coffee, §4, p49 

Corn, §S, p29 

mixers, §2, p5 

Molasses corn, §5, p30 

Southern corn, §5, p29 
Cakes, Buckwheat, §5, p23 

Corn griddle, §5, p22 

Griddle, §5, p21 

Procedure in baking griddle, §S, p20 

Rice griddle, §5. p22 
Calorie, or calory, Definition of, §1, pl2 
Canapes, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Canard, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Candy, Composition of stick, §1, pl9 
Canned fruit. Composition of, §1, pl6 
Canning of foods, §2, p22 
Capers, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Capon, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Caramel, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Carbohydrates, §1, p9 

Composition of, §1, plO 

Elements in, §1, p9 

in cereals, §3, p4 
Carbon, §1, p38 

Carbonic-acid, or carbon-dioxide, gas, §4, plO 
Card, Explanation of score, §4, p33 
Care of bread after baking, §4, ■p30 

of bread in oven, §4, p30 

of cereals, §3, p9 

of flour, §4, p9 

of food, §2, p20 

of food in refrigerator, §2, p25 

of food. Methods of, §2, p22 

of the refrigerator, §2, p26 

of the rising bread dough, §4, p21 
Carolina rice, §3, p26 
Casein, §1, p8 

Effect of cooking on, §1, p8 
Casserole, Definition of, §2, p3 

Use of, §2, p36 
Celery, Composition of, §1, pl7 
Cellars, Storing food in, §2, p27 
Cellulose, Cooking foods containing, §1, pll 

Definition of, §1, pll 

in cereals, §3, pS 

in the diet, Place of, §1, pll 
Cereal flakes, §3, p38 

products, §3, p2 



Cereal selection, Factors that govern, §3, p8 

Setting a, §3, pl3 
Cereals, §3, pi 

Abundance of production of, §3, pi 

as a food, §3, p6 

Browning, or toasting, of, §3, pl4 

by boiling. Cooking, §3, pl3 

by dry heat. Cooking, §3, pl4 

Carbohydrates in, §3, p4 

Care of, §3, p9 

Cellulose in, §3, pS 

Composition of, §3, p3 

Economic value of, §3, p2 

Fat in, §3, p4 

for the table. Preparation of, §3, pll 

Left-over wheat, §3, p2S 

Methods of cooking, §3, pll 

Mineral matter in, §3, pS 

Origin of, §3, pi 

Points to observe in cooking, §2, pl4 

Preparation for cooking, §3, pl2 

Prepared, or ready-to-eat, §3, p38 

Production of, §3, pi 

Protein in, §3, p3 

Purpose of cooking, §3, pll 

Ready-to-eat, §3, p22 

Selection of, §3, p7 

Serving, §3, p39 

Table showing composition of, §3, p6 

undergo in cooking. Changes, §3, pll 

Uses of, §3, p6 

Water in, §3, pS 
Champignons, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Chartreuse, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Cheese, Composition of cottage, §1, plS 

Composition of cream, §1, pl5 
Chemical composition of food, §1, p9 

leavening, §5, p4 
Chestnut coal, §1, p33 

Composition of, §1, p20 
Chiffonade, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Chillies, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Chives, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Chop, Composition of lamb, §1, pl8 

Composition of pork, §1, pl8 
Chopper, Meat, §2, pS 
Chops, Pan-broiled, §2, p32 
Chutney, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Cinnamon rolls, §4, pSO 
Citron, §2, p36 
Clinkers, §1, p33 
Coal and coke, §1, p32 

Anthracite, or hard, §1, p32 

Bituminous, or soft, §1, p32 

Chestnut, §1, p33 

Egg, §1, p32 

fire. Building a, §1, p40 

fire, Building a, §1, p40 

Pea, §1, p33 

Quality of §1. p33 



IV 



INDEX 



Coal range, §1, p39 

Sizes of, §1, p32 

Stove, |1, p32 

•stove dampers, §1, p39 

-stove firebox, §1, p39 

stove for cooking. General construction 
of, §1, p39 

-stove grate, §1, p39 

stoves and their operation, §1, p39 

Varieties of, §1, p32 
Cocoa, §3, p48 

Coconut, Composition of, §1, p20 
Cod, Composition of fresh, §1, plS 

Composition of salt, §1, pl8 
Coffee, §3, p48 

cake, §4, p49 
Coke, §1, p33 

and coal, §1, p32 
Collops, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Commercial yeast, §4, pll 
Common labor-saving devices, §2, p4 
Composition and varieties of oats, §3, p32 

of apple, §1, pl6 

of bacon, §1, pl9 

of banana, §1, pl6 

of beef steak, §1, pl8 

of beef suet, §1, pl9 

of buckwheat, §1, pl4 

of butter, §1, pl9 

of buttermilk, §1, pl5 

of canned fruit, gl, pl6 

of carbohydrates, §1, plO 

of celery, §1, pl7 

of cereals, §3, p3 

of cereals. Table showing, §3, p6 

of chestnut, §1, p20 

of coconut, §1, p20 

of cooked macaroni, §1, pl4 

of cooked oat breakfast food, §1, pl4 

of corn, §1, pl4 

of corn bread, §1, pl4 

of cottage cheese, §1, pl5 

of cream, §1, pl5 

of cream cheese, §1, pl5 

of dried beef, §1, pl8 

of dried fig, §1, pI6 

of dry navy bean, §1, pl7 

of egg white and yolk, §1, pl5 

of food. Chemical, §1, p9 

of food materials, §1, pl4 

of fresh cod, §1, pl8 

of fresh shelled bean, §1, pl7 

of fruit jelly, §1, pl6 

of grape juice, §1, pl6 

of grapes, §1, pl6 

of green corn, §1, pl7 

of green string bean, §1, pl7 

of honey, §1, pl9 

of Italian pastes, §3, p39 

of lamb chop, §1, pl8 



Composition of lard, §1, pl9 

of mackerel, §1, pl8 

of maple sugar, §1, pl9 

of molasses, §1, pl9 

of oats, §1, pl4 

of olive oil, §1, pl9 

of onion, §1, pl7 

of oyster, §1, pl8 

of parsnip, §1, pl7 

of peanut, §1, p20 

of peanut butter, §1, p20 

of pork chop, §1, pl8 

of potato, §1, pl7 

of raisins, §1, pl6 

of rice, §1, pl4 

of rye, §1, pl4 

of rye bread, §1, pl4 

of salt cod, §1, pl8 

of skim milk, §1, pl5 

of smoked ham, §1, pl8 

of smoked herring, §1, pl8 

of stick candy, §1, pl9 

of strawberry, §1, pl6 

of sugar, §1, pl9 

of toasted bread, §1, pl4 

of walnut, §1, p20 

of wheat, §1, pl4 

of white and yolk of egg, §1, plS 

of whole egg, §1, pl5 

of whole milk, §1, pl5 

of whole wheat bread, §1, pl4 
Compote, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Compressed yeast, §4, pl2 
Constituents, Food principles, or, §i, p6 
Conveying heat to food. Methods of, §1, p30 
Cooker, Cooking cereals in fireless, §3, pl4 

Fireless, §2, p6 
Cookery, Meaning of, §1, ppl, 21 

Terms used in, §2, p35 

time table, §2, pl9 
Cooking cereals by boiling, §3, pl3 

cereals in double boiler, §3, pl3 

cereals in fireless cooker, §3, pI4 

cereals. Methods of, §3, pH 

cereals. Points to observe in, §3, pl4 

cereals. Preparation for, §3, pl2 

cereals, Purpose of, §3, pU 

cereals with dry heat, §3, pl4 

food. Reasons for, §1, p21 

foods. Importance of, §1, p21 

foods. Table for, §2, pl8 

Getting foods ready for, §2, p9 

Heat for, §1, p31 

Methods of, §1, p23 

Methods of using moist heat for, §1, p25 

of food, §1, pi 

processes, §1, p22 

rice, Japanese method of, §3, p27 

rice. Methods of, §3, p27 

Uses of water in, §1, p26 



INDEX 



Cooking utensils, Aluminum, §2, p2 

utensils, Copper, §2, p3 

utensils, Earthenware, §2, p3 

utensils, Enamel, §2, p3 

utensils. Glass, §2, p4 

utensils, Iron and steel, §2, p3 

utensils. Tin, §2, p3 

utensils, Wooden, §2, p4 

with dry heat, §1, p23 

with hot fat, §1, p30 
Copper cooking utensils, §2, p3 
Coquilles, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Corer, Apple, §2, p5 
Corn bread, §4, p42 

bread. Composition of, §1, pl4 

cake, §5, p29 

cake. Molasses, §5, p30 

-cake recipes, §5, p29 

cake, Southern, §5, p29 

Composition of, §1, pl4 

Composition of green, §1, pl7 

Field, §3, pl6 

griddle cakes, §5, p22 

Maize, or Indian, §3, pl5 

meal, §3, pl6 

-meal croquettes, §3, p21 

-meal muffins, §5, p27 

-meal mush, §3, pl9 

-meal mush, Left-over, §3, p21 

meal. Recipes for, §3, pl6 

Pop, §3, pl6 

Sweet, §3, pl6 
Cottage cheese. Composition of, -1, plS 
Cracked wheat, §3, p8 
Cream cheese. Composition of, §1, pl5 

Composition of, §1, pl5 

of tartar and soda, §5, p6 

of wheat, §3, p22 

of wheat with dates, §3, p23 

sauce, §3, p42 
Creamed hominy, §3, pl8 

peas, §2, p32 

rice, §3, p28 
Creaming of food ingredients, §2, plO 
Croquettes, Corn-meal, §3, p21 

Rolled-oats, §3, p34 
Croustade, Meaning of, §2, p36 
Croutons, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Cups, Measuring, §2, pl2 
Curry, §2, pST" 
Custard, Farina, §3, p25 
Cutting-in of food ingredients, §2, plO 

D 

Dampers, Adjusting cook-stove, §1, p41 

Coal-stove, §1, p39 
Date muffins, §5, p27 
Dates, Cream of wheat with, §3, p23 

Graham mush with, §3, p24 
Demi-tasse, Meaning of, §2, p37 



Deviled, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Dextrine, Formation of, §1, plO; §3, p38 
Diet, Hot breads in the, §5, pi 

Meaning of, §1, p3 

Well-balanced, §1, pll 
Dietetics, Definition of, §1, p9 
Digestion and absorption of food, §1, pl3 

of food, §1, p6 
Dill, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Dinner rolls, §4, p4S 
Dish-washing machines, §2, p6 
Double boiler. Cooking cereals in, §3, pl3 

boiler. Use of, §1, p29 
J)ough, Kneading bread, §4, p24 

Making bread, §4, pl8 

Motions used in kneading bread, §4, p25 

Soft, §5, pl3 

Stiff, §5, pl3 
Doughs and batters, §5, pl2 
Dressing, 'Cabbage-salad, §2, p33 
Dried beef. Composition of, §1, pl8 

fig. Composition of, §1, pl6 
Dry heat, Cooking cereals by, §3, pl4 

heat, Cooking with, §1, p23 

measure, §2, pl6 

steaming, §1, p29; §3, pl3 

yeast, §4, pll 
Drying of foods, §2, p22 

E 

Earthenware cooking utensils, §2, p3 
Economic value of cereals, §3, p2 
Effect of boiling on foods, §1, p27 
Egg beater, Rotary, §2, p4 

coal, §1, p32 

Composition of white and yolk of, §1, plS 

Composition of whole, §1, pl5 

whip, §2, p5 
Eggs, Scrambled, §3, p37 
Electric meter, Reading an, §1, p37 

stoves, §1, p46 

stoves and utensils, §1, p46 
Electricity as a fuel. Use of, §1, p36 
Emergency biscuits, §5, p32 
En coquille. Meaning of, §2, p37 
Enamel cooking utensils, §2, p3 
Endosperm, Meaning of, §4, p6 
Entrees, §2, p37 
Equipment for bread making, Convenient, 

§4, pl6 
Escarole, Meaning of, §2, p37 



Factors that govern cereal selection, §3, p8 
Farce, or forcemeat, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Farina, §3, pp22, 24 

custard, §3, p25 

souffle, §3, p25 
Fat and milk in bread, §4, pl4 

Cooking with hot, §1, p30 



INDEX 



Fat in cereals, §3, p4 

Fats, §1, p9 

Ferments, or leavening agents, §4, pi 

Field corn, §3, pl6 

Fig, Composition of dried, §1, pl6 

Fillet mignons, Meaning of, §2, p37 

Fillets, Meaning of, §2, p37 

Firebox, Coal-stove, §1, p39 

Fireless cooker, §2, p6 

cooker, Cooking cereals in, §3, pl4 

-cooking gas stoves, §1, p44 
Flour, §3, p8 

Bakers', §4. p8 

Blend, §4, p5 

Care of, §4, p9 

Graham, §4, p7 

Grains used for, §4, p3 

High-grade patent, §4, p8 

Kinds of, §4, p3 

made from spring or hard wheat. Discus- 
sion of, §4, p5 

Milling of wheatj §5, p6 

Quality of, §4, p8 

Red dog, §4, p8 

Rye, §4, p4 

Scouring, §4, p7 

Second-grade patent, §4, p8 

Selection of, §4, p8 

Whole-wheat, §4, p8 
Flue, Coal-stove, §1, p39 

opening of a coal stove, §1, p39 
Fluff, Orange, §2, p33 

Sauce for orange, §2^ p34 
Folding of food ingredients, §2^ plO 
Fondant, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Fondue, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Food, Absorption of, §1, p6 

Care of, §2, p20 

Cereals as a, §3, p6 

Chemical composition of, §1, p9 

Cooking of, §1, pi 

Definition of, §1, p6 

Digestion and absorption of, §1, pl3 

Digestion of, §1, p6 

in cellars, Storing, §2, p27 

ingredients. Beating of, §2, plO 

ingredients, Creaming of, §2, plO 

ingredients, Cutting-in of, §2, plO 

ingredients, Folding of, §2, plO 

ingredients. Mixing of, §2, plO 

ingredients, Processes involved in mix- 
ing of. §2, pIO 

ingredients, Ricing of, §2, pll 

ingredients. Rubbing of, §2, plO 

ingredients, Sifting of, §2, pll 

ingredients, Stirring of, §2, plO 

Matters involved in right selection of, 
§1. pS 

Methods of caring for, §2, p22 

or fuel, value, §1, p6 



Food, Preparation of, |1, p21 

principles or constituents, §1, p6 

Problem of» §1, pi 

Reasons for cooking, §1, p21 

Selection of, §1, p5 

substances, §1, p6 

value, §1, pl2 
Foods, Blanching, §2, p9 

Canning of, §2, p22 

Drying of, §2, p22 

for cooking. Preparation of, §2, p9 

Importance of cooking, §1, p21 

Importance of variety of, §!, pll 

Meaning of breakfast, §3, p3 

Storing of non-perishable, §2, p29 

Storing of semiperishable, §2, p30 

with ice. Keeping, §2, p23 

without ice, Keeping, §2, p27 
Forcemeat, or farce. Meaning of, §2, p37 
Frappe, Meaning of, §2, p37 
French toast, §4, p51 
Fricasseeing, §1, p31 
Fromage, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Fruit bread, Whole-wheat, §4, p40 

Composition of canned, §1. pl6 

jelly, Composition of, §1, pl6 

or nut buns, §4, p4S 
Frying, §1. p30 
Fuel, Use of coal as a, §1. p32 

Use of coke as a, §1, p32 

Use of electricity as a, §1, p36 

Use of gas as **, §1, p34 

Use of kerosene as a, §1, p36 

value. Food, or, §1, p6 

Value of gas as, §1, p34 
Furnishing a kitchen. Utensils for, §2, p8 

G 

Gas, §1, p34 

Artificial, §1, p34 

as fuel. Use of, §1, p34 

as fuel. Value of, §1. p34 

Carbonic-acid, or carbon -dioxide, §4, pIO 

Measurement of, §1, p34 

meter, §1, p34 

meter, Reading a, §1, p34 

Natural, §1. p34 

ranges, Description of, §1, p42 

stove. Mixer of a. §1, pu 

stove. Pilot of a, §1, p4ji 

stoves and their operation, §1, p42 

stoves, Fireless-cooking, §1, p44 
General proportions. Applying knowledge 

of, §5, pl3 
Germ, Definition of, §3, p3 
Germs, §2, p20 
Gingerbread, Soft, §S, p35 
Glace, Biscuit, §2, p35 

Meaning of, §2, p37 
Glass cooking utensils, §2, p4 



INDEX 



vii 



Glaze, Meaning of, §2, p37 

Gliadin, §4, p4 

Glucose, Definition of, §1, plO 

Gluten, §3, p4; §4, p4 

Glutenin, §4, p4 

Goulash, Meaning of, §2, p37 

Graham bread, §4, p39 

bread with nuts, §4, p40 

flour, §4, p7 

muffins, §5, p27 

mush with dates, §3, p24 

nut buns, §4, p47 
Grain for market, Preparation of, §3, p7 

products. Table of, §3, pp9, 10 

Structure of wheat, §4, p5 
Grains used for flour, §4, p3 
Grape juice. Composition of, §1, pl6 
Grapes, Composition ofj §1, pl6 
Grate, Coal-stove, §1, p39 
Green corn. Composition of, §1, pl7 
Griddle-cake recipes, §5, p20 

cakes, §5, p21 

cakes. Corn, §5, p22 

cakes, Procedure in baking, §5, p20 

cakes, Rice, §5, p22 

cakes, Sour-milk, §5, p21 
Griddles, §5, plO 
Grinder, Meat, §2, p5 
Grits, §3, p8 

Hominy, §3, pl8 

Wl^eat, §3, pp22, 23 
Gumlpo, Meaning of, §2, p37 

H 

Ham, Composition of smoked, §1, pl8 
Hard water. How to soften, §1, p26 
Haricot, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Heat, Cooking cereals with dry, §3, pl4 

Coojcing with dry, §1, p23 

for cooking, §1, p31 

for cooking, Discussion of, §1, p31 

Methods of cooking with moist, §1, p2S 
Herring, Composition of smoked, §1, pl8 
High-grade patent flour, §4, p8 
HT>mard, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Hominy, §3, pl6 

and cheese souflle, §3, pl9 

Buttered, §3, pl8 

Crqamed, §3, pl8 

grifs, §3, pl8 

Left-over, §3, pl9 

Repipes for, §3, pl6 
Hongy, Composition of, §1, pl9 
Hor^-d*oeuvres, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Hot bread, §4, p2 

bread. Distinction between leavened and, 
§4, p2 

-bread mixture. Baking the, §5, pl5 

-bread mixture. Testing of baked, §5, pl7 

-bfead mixture. Preparation of, §5, pl4 

W 1— C 1—17 



Hot-bread mixture, Utensils for baking 

the, §5, plO 
-bread mixture. Utensils for preparing 

the, §5, plO 
-bread recipes. Miscellaneous, §5, p35 
-bread utensils and their use, §5, p8 
br€ad. Utilizing left-over, §S, p37 
breads, §5, pi 

breads. Baking of, §5, plS 
breads, Combining ingredients for, §5, pl4 
breads. Correct oven temperature for, §5, 

pl5 
breads, Distinction between yeast and, 

§4, p2_ 
breads in the diet, §5, pt 
breads, Mixtures used for, §S, pl2 
breads. Principal requirements for, §5, p2 
breads. Purpose of utensils for making, 

§5, p9 
breads. Recipes for, §5, pl8 
breads. Regulating the oven for, §5, pl5 
breads, Requirements and processes for 

making, §5, pi 
breads. Serving, §5, pl7 
breads. Varieties of mixtures and gen- 
eral proportions used in, §5, pl2 
fat. Cooking with, §1, p30 
Hotplates, §1, p47 
Hulled, or whole, wheat, §3, p22 

wheat, §3, p22 
Huller, Berry, §2, p5 



Ice, Keeping foods with, §2, p23 
Indian corn, or maize, 53, plS 
Ingredients, Beating of food, §2, plO 

Combining hot-bread, §5, pl4 

Creaming of food, §2, plO 

Cutting-in of food, §2, plO 

Folding of food, §2, plO 

for bread making, §4, p3 

Mixing of food, §2, plO 

Preparation of hot-bread, §5, pl4 

Processes involved in mixing food, §2, plO 

Quick-process, sponge method of combin- 
ing bread, §4, p20 

required for bread making, §4, p3 

Ricing of food, §2, plO 

Rubbing of food, §2, plO 

Sifting of food, §2, pll 

Stirring of food, §2, plO 
Iron and steel cooking utensils, §2, p3 
Irons, Waffle, §5, pl2 
Italian pastes, §3, p39 

pastes, Composition of, §3, p39 

pastes. Left-over, §3, p46 

pastes. Preparation of, §3, p39 

pastes, Recipes for, §3, p41 

pastes. Varieties of, §3, p.l9 
Italiene, Meaning of a la, §2, p37 



Vlll 



INDEX 



Japanese method of cooking rice, §3, p27 

rice, §3, p26 
Jardiniere, Meaning of, §2, p37 
Jelly, Composition of fruit, §1, pl6 
Juice, Composition of grape, §1, pl6 
Julienne, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Junket, Meaning of, §2, p38 

K 

Keeping foods with ice, §2, p23 

foods without ice, §2, p27 
Kerosene as a fuel. Use of, §1, p36 

stoves and their operation, §1, p45 
Kilowatt-hours in meter reading, §1, p37 
Kippered, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Kitchen, Utensils for furnishing a, §2, p8 
Kneading bread dough, §4, p24 

bread dough. Motions used in, §4, p25 

bread dough. Purpose of, §4, p24 



Labor-saving devices, §2, p4 
Lactose, §1, plO 

Occurrence of, §1, plO 
Lamb chop. Composition of, §1, pl8 
Lard, Composition of, §1, pI9 
Larding, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Lardon, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Leavened bread, §4, p2 
Leavening agents, §5, p3 

agents, Classes of, §5, p3 

agents, or ferments, §4, pi 

Chemical, §5, p4 

Physical, §5, p3 
Left-over barley, §3, p37 

-over bread, §4, pS2 

-over corn-meal mush, §3, p21 

-over hominy, §3, pl9 

-over hot bread. Utilizing, §5, p37 

-over Italian pastes, §3, p46 

-over rice, §3, p30 

-over rolled oats, §3, p34 

-over wheat cereals, §3, p2S 
Legumes, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Lentils, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Liquid measure, §2, pl5 

yeast, §4, pl2 
Loaf, Niit, §5, p36 
Loaves, Shaping the bread dough into, §4, 

p27 
Long process of bread making, §4, pl9 

process of making white bread, §4, p38 

-process, sponge method of bread making, 
§4, pl9 

-process, straight -dough method of bread 
making, §4, p20 
Luncheon menu, §5, p37 

rolls, §4, p46 



M 

Macaroni, |3, p40 

and kidney beans, §3, p4S 

Composition of cooked, §1, pl4 

Italian style, §3, p44 

with cheese, §3, p43 

with cheese and tomato, §3, p44 

with cream sauce, §3, p41 

with eggs, §3, p42 

with tomato and bacon, §3, p43 
Macedoine, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Machines, Dish-washing, §2, p6 
Mackerel, Composition of, §1, pl8 
Maize, §3, pl5 
Malt sprouts, §3, p35 
Maple sugar. Composition of, §1, pl9 
Marinade, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Marinate, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Market, Preparation of grains for the, 

§3, p7 
Marrons, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Materials, Proportion of bread-making, ^4, 
pl4 

used for cooking utensils, §2, p2 
Matter, Mineral, §1, p7 
Mayonnaise mixer^ The, §2, pS 
Meal, §3, p8 

Corn, §3, pl6 

Recipes for corn, §3, pl6 
Meaning of breakfast foods, §3, p3 
Measure, Dry, §2, pl6 

Liquid, §2, plS 
Measurement of gas, §1, p34 
Measures, Abbreviations of, §2, pl7 
Measuring, §2, pll 

cups, §2, pl2 

Precautions to observe in, §2, pl4 

spoons, §2, pl3 
Meat chopper, §2, p5 

grinder, §2, p5 
Menu, Breakfast, §3, p47 

Luncheon, §5, p37 

Meaning of, §2, pp31, 38 
Menus and recipes, §2, p31 
Meringue, Meaning of, §2, p3S 
Meter, Gas, §1, p34 

Reading a gas, §1, p34 

Reading an electric, §1, p37 
Meters, Prepayment, §1, p3S 
Micro-organisms, §2, p20 
Microbes, §2, p20 
Milk and fat in bread, §4, pI4 

Composition of skim, §1, pl5 

Composition of whole, §1, plS 

Soda and sour, §5, p5 

toast, §4, p51 
Millet, §3, p37 

buckwheat, and rye, §3, p37 

Description of, §3, p37 
Milling of wheat flour, §4, p6 



INDEX 



IX 



Mineral matter, §1, p7 

matter in cereals, §3, p5 

salts, §1, p7 

salts, Purpose of, §1, p7 
Miscellaneous hot-bread recipes, §S, p3S 
Mixer, Gas-stove, §1, p43 

Mayonnaise, §2, p5 

Use of the bread, §4, p34 
Mixers, Bread, §2, p5 

Cake, §2, pS 
Mixing of food ingredients, §2, plO 

of food ingredients. Processes involved 
in, §2. plO 

processes, Application of, §2, p^l 
Mixture, Testing baked hot-bread, §5, pl7 
Mixtures used for hot breads, §5, pl2 
Moist heat, Cooking with, §1, p25 

yeast, §4, pll 
Molasses and soda, §5, p6 

Composition of, §1, pl9 

corn cake, §5, p30 
Molds, §2, p20 
Motions used in kneading bread dough, 

§4, p2S 
Mousse, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Muffin recipes, §5, p25 
Muffins, Blueberry, §5, p26 

Bran, §4, p28 

Corn-meal, §5, p27 

Date, §5, p27 

Graham, §S, p27 

Plain, §5, p26 

Rice, §5, p28 
Mush, Corn-meal, §3, pl9 

Left-over corn-meal, §3, p21 

Sauted corn-meal, §3, p20 

with dates, Graham, §3, p24 

Natural gas, §1, p34 

Navy bean. Composition of dry, §1, pl7 

Non-perishable foods. Storing of, §2, p29 

Nougat, Meaning of, §2, p38 

Nut buns, Graham, §4, p47 

loaf, §5, p36 

or fruit buns, §4, §48 

puffs, §5, pl9 

O 

Oat breakfast food, Composition of cooked, 
§1, Pl4 

Composition of, §1, pl4 
Oatmeal, §3, p32 
Oats, §3, p32 

Composition and varieties of, §3, p32 

Recipes for, §3, p32 

Rolled, §3, ppS. 32 

with apples. Rolled, §3, p33 
Olive oil, Composition of, §1, pl9 



Onion, Composition of, §1, pl7 

Orange fluff, §2, p33 
fluff, Sauce for, §2, p34 

Order of work, §2, pl7 

Oriental rice, §3, p29 

Oven, Coal-stove, §1, p39 
for hot breads, Regulating the, §5, pl5 
Proper placing of hot-bread mixture in, 

§5, Pl7 
temperature, Determining and regulating. 

§5, pl5 
temperature for baking bread, §4, p29 
temperature for hot breads, §5, pl5 

Oxygen, §1, p38 

Oyster, Composition of, §1, pl8 



Pan-broiled chops, §2, p32 

broiling, §1, p24 
Paprika, §2, p38 
Parker House rolls, §4, p45 
Parsnip, Composition of, §1, pl7 
Pastes, Italian, §3, p39 

Recipes for Italian, §3, p41 
Pate, Meaning of. §2, p38 
Patent flour, High-grade, §4, p8 

flour. Second-grade, §4, p8 
Patties, Rice, §3, p31 
Pea coal, §1, p33 
Peanut butter, Composition of, §1, p20 

Composition of, §1, p20 
Pearl barley, §3, p35 

barley. Description of, §3, p35 

barley with fruit, §3, p36 
Peas, Creamed, §2, p32 

Sauce for, §2, p33 
Physical leavening, §5, p3 
Pilot, Gas-stove, §1, p43 
Pimiento, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Pineapple, Rice with, §3, p30 
Pinwheel biscuits, §5, p33 
Piquante, Meaning of sauce, §2, p39 
Pistachio, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Plain muffins, §5, p26 
Point, Boiling, §1, p27 
Polishings, Rice, §3, p26 
Pop corn, §3, pl6 
Popover recipes, §5, pl8 

with fruit, §5, pl9 
Pork chop. Composition of, §1, pl8 
Potage, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Potato, Composition of, §1, pl7 

ricer, §2, p5 
Potatoes, Baked, §2, p32 
Powder, Baking, §5, p7 

Recipe for baking, §5, pS 
Precautions to observe in measuring, §2, pl4 
Preparation for cooking cereals, §3, pl2 

for cooking foods, §2, p9 

of cereals for the table, §3, pU 



INDEX 



Preparation of food, §1, p21 

of grains for the market, §3, p7 

of hot-bread ingredients, §5, pl4 

of hot-bread mixture, §5, pl4 

of Italian pastes, §3, p39 
Prepared, or ready-to-eat, cereals, §3, p38 
Preparing the hot-bread mixture, Utensils 

for, §5, plO 
Prepayment meters, §1, p35 
Principle of stoves, §1, p38 
Principles, or constituents, Food, §1, p6 
Problem of food, §1, pi 

Processes and requirements for making hot 
breads, §5, pi 

Application of mixing, §2, pU 

Bread-making, §4, pl6 

Cooking, §1, p22 

involved in mixing food ingredients, §2, 
plO 
Production of cereals, §3, pi 
Products, Cereal, §3, p2 

Table of grain, §3, pp9, 10 
Proportion of bread-making materials, §4, 

pl4 
Proportions, Applying knowledge of gen- 
eral, §5, pl3 
Protein, §1, p7 

in cereals, §3, p3 
Puffs, Nut, §5, pl9 

Whole-wheat, §5, pl9 
Puree, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Purpose of baking bread, §4, p29 

of bread rising, §4, p21 

of cooking cereals, §3, pll 

of kneading bread dough, §4, p24 

of utensils for making hot breads, §5, p9 



Quality of coal, §1, p33 

of flour, §4, p8 

of yeast, §4, pl3 
Quick bread, Hot or, §4, p2 

breads, §5, pi 

process of combining bread ingredients, 
§4, p20 

process of making white bread, §4, p38 

process of making whole- wheat bread, 
§4, p49 

-process, sponge method of combining 
bread ingredients, §4, p20 

-process, straight-dough method of com- 
bining bread ingredients, §4, p20 

R 

Ragout, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Raisins, Composition of, §1. pl6 
Ramekin, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Range, Coal, §1, p39 
Ranges, Description of gas, §1, p42 



Reading a gas meter, §1, p34 

an electric meter, §1, p37 
Ready-to-eat cereals, §3, p22 

-to-eat, or prepared, cereals, §3, p38 
Reasons for cooking food, §1, p21 
Rechauffe, Meaning of, §2^ p38 
Recipe, Definition of, §2, p31 
Red-dog flour, §4, p8 
Refrigerator, Care of food in, §2, p25 

Care of the, §2, p26 
Refrigerators, §2, p23 

Refuse, Distinction between waste and, 
§1. p2 

Meaning of, §1, p2 
Relative weights and measures. Tables of, 

§2, pl6 
Requirements and processes for making hot 
breads, §5, pi 

of bread making, §4, pi 
Rice, Boiled, §3, p27 

Boiling, §3, p27 

bread, §4, p42 

Browned, §3, p29 

Carolina, §3, p26 

Composition of, §1, pl4 

Creamed, §3, p28 

griddle cakes, §5, p22 

Japanese, §3, p26 

Japanese method of cooking, |3, p27 

Left-over, §3, p30 

Methods of cooking, §3, p27 

muffins, §5, p28 

Oriental, §3, p29 

patties, §3, p31 

polishings, §3, p26 

Recipes for, §3, p26 

Savory, §3, p29 

Spanish, §3, p31 

Steamed, §3, p^ 

Steaming, §3, p27 

Varieties and structure of, §3, p26 

waffles, §5, p25 

with pineapple, §3, p30 
Ricer, Potato, §2, p5 
Ricing of food ingredients, §2, plO 
Rising bread dough. Care of the, §4, p21 

Temperature for bread, §4, p21 

Time required for bread, §4, p24 
Rissoles, Meaning of, §2, p38 
Roasting, Distinction between baking and, 
§1, p25 

Meaning of, §1, p24 
Rolled oats, §3, pp8, 32 

-oats croquettes, §3, p34 

-oats jelly with prunes, §3, p33 

oats. Left-over, §3, p34 

oats with apples, §3, p33 
Rolls, buns, and biscuits. Recipes tor, 
§4, p44 

Cinnamon, §4, p50 



INDEX 



XI 



Rolls, Dinner, §4, p45 

Luncheon, §4, p46 

Parker House, §4, p45 

Whole-wheat, §4, p47 
Rotary egg beater, §2, p4 
Roux, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Rubbing of food ingredients, §2, plO 
Rye, §3, p37 

bread, §4, p41 

bread, Composition of, §1, pl4 

buckwheat, and millet, §3, p37 

Composition of, §1, pl4 

Description of, §3, p37 

flour, §4, p4 



Salad, Cabbage, §2, p33 

Watercress-and-celery, §5, p38 
Salmi, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Salpicon, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Salt cod. Composition of^ §1, pl8 

-rising bread, §4, p43 
Salts, Mineral, §1, p7 

Purpose of mineral, §1, p7 
Sauce, Cream, §3, p42 

for orange fluff, §2, p34 

for peas, §2, p33 

piquante. Meaning of, §2, p39 

Meaning of tartare, §2, p39 

Meaning of vinaigrette, §2, p39 
Sauted corn-meal mush, §3, p20 
Sauteing, §1, p30 
Savory rice, §3, p29 
Scales, §2, pl2 

Score card, Explanation of, §4, p33 
Scoring bread, §4, p32 

bread. Object of, §4, p32 
Scouring of flour, §4, p7 
Scrambled eggs, §3, p37 
Second-grade patent flour, §4, p8 
Selection and care of cereals, §3, p7 

of flour, §4, p8 

of food, §1, pS 
Semiperishable foods. Storing of, §2, p30 
Semolina, §3, p40 
Serving bread, §4, p35 

cereals, §3, p39 

hot breads, §5, pl7 
Setting a cereal or grain, §3, pl3 
Shallot, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Shaping bread dough into loaves, §4, p27 
Shelled bean, Composition of fresh, §1, pl7 
Sifting of food ingredients, §2, pU 
Simmering, or stewing, §1, p28 
Sizes of coal, §1, p32 
Skim milk. Composition of, §1, pl5 
Small electric utensils, §1, p47 
Smoked ham, Composition of, §1, pl8 

herring, Composition of, §1, pl8 
Soda and cream of tartar, §5, p6 



Soda and molasses, §5, p6 

and sour milk, §5, p5 
Soft dough, §5, pl3 

gingerbread, §5, p35 
Softening hard water, §1, p26 
Soluble starch, §3, pl2 
Sorbet, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Souffle, Meaning of, §2, p39 

Farina, §3, p2S 
Sour milk, Soda and, §5, p5 

-milk griddle cakes, §5, p21 
Southern corn cake, §5, p29 
Soy, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Spaghetti, §3, p40 

with cheese and tomato sauce, §3, p45 
Spanish rice, §3, p31 

Sponge method of making bread. Long- 
process, §4, pl9 

method of making bread. Quick-process, 
§4, p20 
Spoons, Measuring, §2, pl3 
Spring, or hard, wheat, §4, p5 

or hard, wheat. Flour made from, §4, p5 
Sprouts, Malt, §3, p35 
Starch, §1, plO 

Steak, Composition of beef, §1, pl8 
Steamed rice, §3, p28 
Steamer, §1. p29 
Steaming, §1, p29; §3, pl3 

Dry, §1, p29; §3, pl3 

rice, §3, p27 
Steel-and-iron cooking utensils, §2, p3 
Sterilize water, Boiling to, §1, p28 
Sterilizing, §2, p22 
Stewing or simmering, §1, p28 
Stick candy, Composition of, §1, pl9 
Stiff dough, §5, pl3 
Stirring of food ingredients, §2, plO 
Stock, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Storing food in cellars, §2, p27 

of non-perishable foods, §2, p29 

of semiperishable foods, §2, p30 
Stove ash pan. Coal-, §1, p39 

ash pit. Coal-, §1, p39 

Coal, §1, p32 

dampers, Coal-, §1, p39 

flue opening, Coal-, §1, p39 

oven, Coal-, §1, p39 
Stoves and utensils, Electric, §1, p46 

Fireless-cooking gas, §1, p44 

Operation of kerosene, §1, p45 

Principle of, §1, p38 
Straight-dough method of bread making, 

§4, Pl9 
-dough method of bread making. Long- 
process, §4, p20 
-dough method of bread making. Quick- 
process, §4, p20 
Strawberry, Composition of, §1, pl6 
String bean. Composition of green, §1, pl7 



xu 



INDEX 



Structure and varieties of rice, §3, p26 

of wheat grain, §4, pS 
Substances, Food, §1, p6 
Suet, Composition of beef, §1, pl9 
Sugar, §1, plO 

Composition of, §1, pl9 

Composition of maple, §1, pl9 
Sultanas, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Sweet buns, §4, p48 

corn, §3, pl6 

T 
Table, Cookery time, §2, pl9 

of grain products, §3, pp9, 10 

showing composition of cereals, §3, p6 
Tables of relative weights and measures, 
§2, pl6 

of weights and measures, §2, pl5 
Tarragon, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Tartare sauce, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Temperature, Determining and regulating 
oven, §5, pl5 

for bread rising, §4, p21 

for hot breads. Correct oven, §5, plS 
Terms used in cookery, §2, p3S 
Testing baked hot-bread mixture, §5, pl7 
Thick batter, §5, pl3 
Thin batter, |5, pl3 
Timbale, Meaning of, §2, p39 
Time for baking and care of bread in 
oven, §4, p30 

required for bread rising, §4, p24 

table. Cookery, §2, pl9 
Tin cooking utensils, §2, p3 
Toast, §4, p51 

Buttered, §3, p47 

French, §4, p51 

Milk, §4, p51 
Toasted bread. Composition of, §1, pl4 
Toasting, §3, pl4 
Troy weight, §2, pl5 
Truffles, Meaning of, §2, p39 

U 
Utensils, Aluminum cooking, §2, p2 

and their use, Hot-bread, §5, p8 

Copper cooking, §2, p3 

Earthenware cooking, §2, p3 

Enamel cooking, §2, p3 

for baking the hot-bread mixture, §5, plO 

for break making, §4, plS 

for cooking, §2, pi 

for furnishing a kitchen, §2, pS 

for preparing hot-bread mixture, §5, plO 

Glass cooking, §2, p4 

Importance of, §2, pi 

Iron and steel cooking, §2, p3 

Materials used for, §2, p2 

Small electric, §1, p47 

Tin cooking, §2, p3 

Wooden cooking, §2, p4 



Value, Food, §1, pl2 

Food, or fuel, |1, p6 

of cereals, Economic, §3, p2 

of gas as fuel, §1, p34 
Vanilla, Meaning of, |2, p39 
Varieties and composition of oats, |3, p32 

and structure of rice, §3, p26 

of coal, §1, p32 

of Italian pastes, §3, p39 

of mixtures used in hot breads, §5, pl2 
Variety of foods. Importance of a, 51, pll 
Verftiicelli, §3, p40 

Vinaigrette sauce. Meaning of, §2, p39 
Vol au vent. Meaning of, §2, p39 

Waffle irons, §S, pl2 
Waffles, §5, p24 

Procedure in baking, §5, p24 

Rice, §5, p2S 
Walnut, Composition of, §1, p20 
Waste and refuse. Distinction between, 
§1> P2 

Definition of, §1, p2 
Water as a food substance, §1, p7 

Boiling to sterilize, %!, p28 

How to soften hard, §1, p26 

in cereals, §3, p5 

in the body. Function of, §1, p25 
Watercress-and-celery salad, §5, p38 
Weight, Avoirdupois, §2, plS 

Troy, §2. pl5 
Weights and measures, Tables of, §2, pl5 

and measures. Tables of relative, §2, pl6 
Wheat, §3, p21 

and wheat products. Recipes for, |3, p22 

Beech, §3, p37 

bread, Composition of whole-, §1, pl4 

cereals, Left-over, §3, p2S 

Composition of, §1, pl4 

Cracked, §3, p8 

Cream of, §3, p23 

flour. Milling of, §5, p6 

grain. Structure of, §4, pS 

grits, §3, pp22, 23 

Hulled, §3, p22 

Hulled, or whole, §3, p22 

Origin and use of, §3, p21 

products. Recipes for, §3, p22 

Spring, or hard, §4, p5 

Winter, or soft, §4, p5 
White bread, §4, p37 

bread, Long process of making, §4, p38 

bread, Quick process of making, §4, p38 

of egg, Composition of, §1, pi5 
Whole egg. Composition of, §1, pl5 

milk, Composition of, §1, pl5 

-wheat bread, §4, p39 



INDEX 



xni 



Whole-wheat hread, Composition of, §1, pl4 

-wheat bread. Quick process of making, 
84, p39 

-wheat flour, §4, p8 

-wheat fruit bread, §4, p40 

-wheat puffs, §S, pl9 

-wheat rolls, §4, p47 
Window boxes, §2, p28 
Winter, or soft, wheat, §4, p5 
Wooden cooking utensils, §2, p4 
Work, Order of, §2, pl7 



Yeast aids, §4, pl3 

and hot breads. Distinction between, 
§4, p2 

Commercial, §4, pll 

Compressed, §4, pl2 

Dry, §4, pll 

Liquid, §4, pl2 

Moist, §4, pll 

or leavened, bread, §4, p2 * 

Quality of, §4, pl3 
Yeasts, §2, p20 
Yolk of egg. Composition of, §1, pl5 



Yeast, §4, ppl, 10 
Action of, §4, plO 



Zwieback, §2, p39 



ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York Statk Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



V.4 

Woman's Institute library of cooi(ery 




3 1924 003 570 607 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003570607 



WOMAN'S Institute, 
Library of Cookery 




SALADS AND SANDWICHES ^ u 
COLD AND FROZLN DLSSLRTS 
CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 
PASTRIES AND PIES 



WOMAN'S INSTITUTE 

OF DOMESTIC ARTS AND SCIENCES, Inc. 

5CRANTON, PA. 



65/ 
3J7760 



Salads and Sandwiches: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing 
Company. 

Cold and Frozen Desserts: Copyright, 1919, by International Educational Publishing 
Company. 

Cakes, Cookies, and Puddings, Parts 1 and 2: Copyright, 1919, by International Educa- 
tional Publishing Company. 

Pastries and Pies: Copyright, 1919, by International Educational Publishing Com- 
pany. 

Copyright in Great Britain 



All rights reserved 
Printed in U. S. A. 



Press of 

International Textbook Company 

Scranton, Pa. 



96662 



PRLFACL 



This volume, the fourth of the Woman's Institute Library of 
Cookery, deals with salads, sandwiches, cold desserts, cakes, both 
large and small, puddings, pastry, and pies. Such foods constitute 
some of the niceties of the diet, but skill in their preparation signi- 
fies at once a housewife's mastery of the science of cookery. 

In Salads and Sandwiches are presented so simply the secrets of 
appetizing salads that they can be grasped by even a novice, and 
sandwiches of numerous varieties, from those appropriate for after- 
noon teas to those suitable for the main dish in the meal, are so 
treated that they appear to rise above the ordinary place usually 
accorded them. One need never hesitate to prepare a menu for an 
afternoon or evening social affair or the salad course in a luncheon 
or dinner after a study of this part of the volume. 

A glance through Cold and Frozen Desserts will convince one very 
quickly that a large number of the desserts that complete our meals 
are served cold. The mere mention of custards, gelatine desserts, 
and such frozen mixtures as ice creams, ices, frappes, sherbets, 
mousses, parfaits, and biscuits, all of which are e?cplained here, is 
sufficient to indicate that this is an extremely deligjitful part of the 
subject of cookery. Entertaining takes on a new and simplified 
meaning when one knows how to make and serve such dishes. 

To be able to make cakes and puddings well is one of the ambitions 
of the modern housewife, and she has an opportunity to realize it in 
a study of Cakes, Cookies, and Puddings, Parts 1 and 2. Sweet 
food in excess is undesirable, but in a moderate quantity it is 
required in each person's diet and may be obtained in this form 
without harm if it is properly prepared. 

The two classes of cakes — ^butter and sponge — are treated in 
detail both as to the methods of making and the required ingredients, 
and numerous recipes are given which will enable the housewife 
to provide both plain and fancy cakes for ordinary and special 

iii 



iv PREFACE 

occasions. Puddings that are prepared by boiling, steaming, and 
baking, and the sauces that make them appetizing, receive a goodly 
share of attention. 

Pastries and Pies completes this volume, rounding out, as it were, 
the housewife's understanding of dessert making. To many per- 
sons, pastry making is an intricate matter, but with the principles 
thoroughly explained and each step clearly illustrated, delicious pies 
of every variety, as well as puff -paste dainties, may be had with very 
little effort. 

Upon the completion of a study of this volume, the housewife 
will find herself equipped with a knowledge of the way to prepare 
many delicacies for her meals. While these are probably not so 
important in the diet as the more fundamental foods, they have a 
definite place and should receive the attention they deserve. 



CONTENTS 



Salads and Sandwiches Section Page 

Salads in the Diet 16 1 

Composition of Salads 16 3 

Ingredients of Salads 16 4 

Relation of Salads to Meals 16 7 

Principles of Salad Making 16 8 

Serving Salads 16 11 

Salad Dressings and Their Preparation 16 13 

Vegetable Salads 16 18 

Combination Fruit-and- Vegetable Salads 16 29 

Fruit Salads 16 30 

High-Protein Salads 16 34 

General Principles of Sandwich Making 16 43 

Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 16 47 

Vegetable Sandwiches 16 48 

Fruit Sandwiches 16 50 

High-Protein Sandwiches 16 52 

Hot Sandwiches 16 54 

Open Sandwiches 16 57 

Canapes 16 58 

Cold and Frozen Desserts 

The Dessert in the Meal 17 1 

Composition and Food Value of Desserts 17 2 

Principles of Dessert Making 17 4 

Sauces and Whipped Cream 17 5 

Principles of Custard Making 17 7 

Recipes for Custards and Related Desserts 17 9 

Principles of Gelatine Making 17 20 

Recipes for Gelatine Desserts 17 22 

Principles of Frozen-Dessert Making 17 27 

Procedure in Freezing Desserts 17 30 

Ice Creams 17 36 

Frozen Custards 17 40 

Ices 17 41 

Frappes 17 43 

V 



vi CONTENTS 

Cold and Frozen Desserts — Continued Section Page 

Sherbets 17 45 

Mousses, Parfaits, and Biscuits 17 47 

Molding Frozen Desserts 17 52 

Serving Frozen Desserts 17 54 

Cakes, Cookies, and Puddings 

Cake and Pudding Mixtures in the Diet 18 1 

Ingredients Used in Cakes 18 3 

General Classes of Cakes 18 7 

General Equipment for Cake Making 18 8 

Procedure in Cake Making 18 9 

Sponge Cakes and Their Preparation 18 12 

Recipes for Sponge Cake and Its Variations. ... 18 17 

Butter Cakes and Their Preparation 18 20 

Recipes for Butter Cakes 18 25 

Cake Icings and FilHngs 18 35 

Varieties of Small Cakes 19 1 

Cup and Drop Cakes 19 2 

Cookies 19 9 

Kisses and Macaroons 19 16 

Ladyfingers and Sponge Drops 19 19 

Cakes Made With Yeast 19 22 

Cream Puffs and Eclairs 19 25 

Doughnuts and Crullers 19 28 

Pudding Sauces 19 34 

Preparation of Puddings 19 37 

Recipes for Puddings 19 39 

Pastries and Pies 

Nature of Pastries and Pies 20 1 

Ingredients Used for Pastry 20 3 

Utensils for Pastry Making 20 5 

Methods of Mixing Pastry 20 7 

Making and Baking Pastry for Pies 20 8 

Utilizing Left-Over Pastry 20 13 

Recipes for Pastry 20 15 

Double-Crust Pies 20 17 

One-Crust Pies 20 24 

Puff Paste 20 33 

Serving Pastry 20 38 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



SALADS 



SALADS IN THE DIET 

1. So much variety exists among salads that it is somewhat 
difficuh to give a comprehensive definition of this class of foods. 
In general, however, salads may be considered as a dish of green 
herbs or vegetables, sometimes cooked, and usually chopped or 
sliced, sometimes mixed with fruit or with cooked and chopped cold 
meat, fish, etc., and generally served with a dressing. For the most 
part, salads take their name from their chief ingredient, as, for 
instance, chicken salad, tomato salad, pineapple salad, etc. Just 
what place salads have in the meal depends on the salad itself. A 
high-protein salad, such as lobster salad, should take the place of 
the meat course, whereas, a light salad of vegetables or fruits may 
be used as an additional course. 

2. Importance of Salads. — Salads are often considered to be 
a dish of little importance ; that is, something that may be left out 
or added to a meal without affecting it to any great extent. While 
this may be the case in a meal that is composed of a sufficient variety 
of foods, salads have a definite place in meals as they are planned in 
the majority of households. Often there is a tendency to limit 
green vegetables or fresh fruits in the diet, but if the members of a 
family are to be fed an ideal diet it is extremely important that 
some of these foods enter into each day's meals, a fact that is often 
overlooked. There is no more effective nor appetizing way in which 
to include them in a meal than in the serving of salads. In addition, 
salads make a strong appeal to the appetite and at the same time are 
beneficial so far as the health of the family is concerned. 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAU PUBLISHINQ COMPANY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§16 
wi-C4-a 



2 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

3. Purposes of Salads. — Because of the wide variety of 
salads and the large number of ingredients from which a selection 
may be made in their preparation, salads can be used for various 
purposes. The housewife who gives much attention to the artistic 
side of the serving of food in her home will often use a salad to 
carry out a color scheme in her meal. This is, of course, the least 
valuable use that salads have, but it is a point that should not be 
overlooked. The chief purpose of salads in a meal is to provide 
something that the rest of the foods served in the meal lack. 

Even though it is not desired to use the salad to carry out a color 
scheme, it should always be made an attractive dish. As is well 
known, nothing is so unappetizing as a salad in which the ingredients 
have not been properly prepared, the garnish is not fresh and crisp, 
or the dressing and salad ingredients have been combined in such 
a way as to appear messy or stale looking. There is no excuse for 
such conditions, and they need not exist if proper attention is given 
to the preparation of the salad. 

4. Selection of Salads. — ^Although salads, through their 
variety, offer the housewife an opportunity to vary her meals, they 
require a little attention as to their selection if a properly balanced 
meal is to be the result. Salads that are high in food value or con- 
tain ingredients similar to those found in the other dishes served 
in the meal, should be avoided with dinners or with other heavy 
meals. For instance, a fish or a meat salad should not be served 
with a dinner, for it would supply a quantity of protein to a meal 
that is already sufficiently high in this food substance because of the 
fact that meat also is included. Such a salad, however, has a place 
in a very light luncheon or a supper, for it helps to balance such a 
meal. The correct salad to serve with a dinner that contains a num- 
ber of heavy dishes is a vegetable salad, if enough vegetables are 
not already included, or a fruit salad, if the dessert does not consist 
of fruit. In case a fruit salad is selected, it is often made to serve 
for both the salad and the dessert course. 

5. Salad Accompaniments. — In addition to the ingredients 
used in the preparation of salads, dressings usually form an impor- 
tant part. These vary greatly as to ingredients and consequently 
as to composition, but most of them contain considerable fat and 
therefore increase the food value of the salad. Then, too, an accom- 
paniment of some kind is generally served with salads to make them 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 3 

more attractive and more pleasing to the taste. Tliis may be a wafer 
or a cracker of some description or a small sandwich made of bread 
cut into thin slices and merely buttered or buttered and then spread 
with a filling of some sort. Such accompaniments, of course, are 
not a necessity, but they add enough to the salad to warrant their use. 



COMPOSITION OF SALADS 

6. The composition, as well as the total food value, of salads 
depends entirely on the ingredients of which they are composed. 
With an understanding of the composition of the ingredients used 
in salads, the housewife will be able to judge fairly accurately 
whether the salad is low, medium, or high in food value, and whether 
it is high in protein, fat, or carbohydrate. This matter is important, 
and should receive consideration from all who prepare this class 
of food. 

7. Protein in Salads. — ^As may be expected, salads that are 
high in protein have for their basis, or contain, such ingredients as 
meat, fish, fowl, cheese, eggs, nuts, or dried beans. The amount 
of protein that such a salad contains naturally varies with the quan- 
tity of high-protein food that is used. For instance, a salad that has 
hard-cooked eggs for its foundation contains considerable protein, 
but one in which a slice or two of hard-cooked egg is used for a 
garnish cannot be said to be a high-protein salad. 

8. Fat in Salads. — The fat in salads is more often included 
as a part of the dressing than in any other way, but the quantity 
introduced may be very large. A French dressing or a mayonnaise 
dressing, as a rule, contains a sufficient proportion of some kind of 
oil to make the salad in which it is used somewhat high in fat. In 
fact, salads are often used as a means of introducing fat into a meal, 
and whenever this is done they should be considered as one of the 
dishes that supply energy-producing food material to the meals in 
which they are served. 

9. Carbohydrate in Salads. — For the most part, salads do 
not contain carbohydrate in any quantity. If fruits are used, the 
salad will, of course, contain a certain amount of sugar. Salads 
in which potatoes, peas, beets, and other vegetables are used also 
contain starch or sugar in varying quantities. However, with the 



4 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

exception of potato salad, salads are probably never taken as a source 
of carbohydrate. 

10. Mineral Salts In Salads. — In the majority of salads, 
mineral salts are an important ingredient. Meat and fish salads are 
the only ones in which the mineral salts are not especially desirable, 
but they can be improved in this respect if a certain amount of vege- 
tables are mixed with them. Green-vegetable salads are the most 
valuable sources of mineral salts, and fruit salads come next. In 
addition, these two varieties of salads contain vitamines, which are 
substances necessary to maintain health. Cheese and egg salads, 
which are high-protein salads, are also valuable for the vitamines 
they supply. 

11. Cellulose in Salads. — Vegetable and fruit salads serve to 
supply cellulose in the diet. Unless the meals contain sufficient 
cellulose in some other form, the use of such salads is an excellent 
way in which to introduce this material. Of course, the salads 
composed of foods high in cellulose are lower in food value than 
others, but the salad dressing usually helps to make up for this 
deficiency. 

INGREDIENTS OF SALADS 

12. Variety in Salad Ingredients. — One of the advantages 
of salads is that the ingredients from which they can be made are 
large in number. In fact, almost any cooked or raw fruit or vege- 
table, or any meat, fowl, or fish, whether cooked expressly for this 
purpose or left over from a previous meal, may be utilized in the 
making of salads. Canned foods of these varieties may also be used 
to advantage for salads during the winter when fresh foods are 
expensive and difficult to procure. The idea that such foods cannot 
be used is wrong. 

13. As far as meats are concerned, they are not used so exten- 
sively in salads as are fruits and vegetables. Often, however, veal 
or pork may be used to increase the quantity of material needed to 
make certain salads, such as chicken salad. Canned fish or fish 
freshly cooked makes appetizing salads, and if there is not a suffi- 
cient quantity of one kind on hand, another may be added without 
impairing the quality of the salad. 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



14. As has already been stated, almost any vegetable, raw, 
canned, or freshly cooked, can be used in the making of salads. In 
addition, these vegetables may be combined in almost any way. 
Small amounts of two, three, four, or more vegetables may be com- 
bined with an appetizing salad dressing and served as a luncheon or 
dinner salad. If no definite recipe is followed but whatever material 
that happens to be on hand is utilized, the result is not only an appe- 
tizing salad, but a saving of vegetables that might otherwise be 
wasted. 

15. Fruits, both canned and raw, are largely used in the making 
of salads. As with vegetables, almost any combination of them 
makes a delicious salad 

when served with the 
proper dressing. Thus, 
a slice of pineapple, a 
canned peach or two, or 
a few spoonfuls of cher- 
ries may be added to 
grapefruit, oranges, ba- 
nanas, or whatever fruit 
may happen to be most 
convenient or easy to 
procure and served with 
the salad dressing that 
is preferred. Vegetables 
are seldom used with 
fruits, celery being the 
only one that is ever 
employed in this way. On the other hand, nuts are much used with 
fruits, vegetables, meats, and fish in the making of salads and any 
variety may be utilized. 

16. Salad Garnislies. — The garnishing of salads, while it 
may seem to be an unimportant part of the preparation of this food, 
is really a matter that demands considerable attention. Lettuce is 
used oftenest for this purpose, but almost any edible green, such as 
endive, watercress, etc., makes an excellent garnish. Generally 
when lettuce is the garnish, the leaves are used whole, but if they 
are not in good condition for garnishing or if use is to be made of 
the coarse outside leaves of the stalks, they may be arranged in a 




Fig. 1 



6 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

pile, rolled tight, and then, as shown in Fig. 1, cut with a sharp knife 
into narrow strips. Lettuce prepared in this way is said to be 
shredded, and a bed of it makes a very attractive garnish for many 
kinds of salad. Among the other foods used as a garnish are 
certain vegetables that give a contrast in color, such as pimiento, 
green peppers, radishes, and olives. Slices of hard-cooked eggs or 
the yolks of eggs forced through a ricer likewise offer a touch of 
attractive color. 

17. Nature of Salad Dressings. — When a salad is properly 
made, a salad dressing of some kind is usually added to the ingre- 
dients that are selected for the salad. This dressing generally 
has for its chief ingredient a salad oil of some kind, many satis- 
factory varieties of which are to be found on the market. Olive oil 
has always been the most popular oil used for this purpose, and in 
many respects it is the most desirable. It can be obtained in several 
grades, the price varying with the excellence of the quality. The 
best grades have a yellowish color, the poorest ones are somewhat 
green, and those of medium quality shade between these two colors. 
The best grades are also clear, while the poorer ones are usually 
cloudy, the better the quality the less cloudy the oil. Besides olive 
oil, however, there are oils made of cottonseed, corn, and nuts. 
Many of these products are cheaper than olive oil and are almost, if 
not quite, as satisfactory. In combination with the oil that is used 
for salad dressing, there is always an acid of some kind, such as 
vinegar or lemon juice. To these ingredients are added spices and 
flavoring. Such a dressing is prepared without cooking, the ingre- 
dients being combined by proper mixing or beating. 

18. Another kind of dressing that is much used is known as 
boiled salad dressing. Its ingredients are similar to those used in the 
uncooked salad dressing, but usually less fat is employed and eggs 
alone or eggs and some starchy material are used for thickening. 

Then, again, entirely different kinds of dressing may be made for 
fruit salads. Sometimes these dressings contain no fat, and other 
times they have for their basis sweet or sour cream, but usually they 
are made so that they are somewhat acid to the taste. 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



RELATION OF SALADS TO MEALS 

19. Because of the large variety of ingredients that may be used 
in the making of salads, it is usually possible to make the salad 
correspond properly with the other dishes in the meal. This is a 
little more difficult to accomplish when left-over materials are used 
in salads, but, even in this event, the addition of ingredients that 
will make the salad more nearly approach what must be supplied 
is usually possible. If the meal is to be a light one and the salad is 
to serve as the principal dish, it should be sufficiently heavy and con- 
tain enough food value to serve the purpose for which it is intended. 
It should be decided on first, and then the rest of the dishes should be 
planned to correspond with the salad. 

On the other hand, when the meal is a heavy one and the salad is 
to be one of the lighter dishes, the main dishes should be decided on 
first and the salad planned so that it will correspond properly with 
the other dishes. For instance, with meat or fish as the main course 
of the meal, a fish, egg, or cheese salad would obviously be the 
wrong thing to serve. Instead, a light salad of vegetables or fruits 
should be selected for such a meal. It should be remembered, also, 
that if the other dishes of a meal contain sufficient food value to 
make the meal properly nourishing, a salad containing a rich dress- 
ing will provide more than a sufficient supply of calories and conse- 
quently should be avoided. 

20. Another point that should not be neglected in selecting a 
salad is that it should be a contrast to the rest of the meal as far 
as flavor is concerned. While several foods acid in flavor do not 
necessarily unbalance a meal so far as food substances and food 
value are concerned, they provide too much of the same flavor to be 
agreeable to most persons. For instance, if the meal contains an 
acid soup, such as tomato, and a vegetable with a sour dressing, such 
as beets, then a salad that is also acid will be likely to add more of a 
sour flavor than the majority of persons desire. 

Then, too, it is not a good plan to serve in the salad the same vege- 
table that is served in the soup or the dinner course. Thus, creamed 
celery and a salad containing celery, and tomato soup and tomato 
salad are bad combinations and should, like others similar to them, be 
carefully avoided. Even though such vegetables may be on hand 
in quantity, they can usually be kept for another meal. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 



PRINCIPLES OF SALAD MAKING 

21. Condition of Salad Ingredients, — When the kind of 
salad to be served h decided on, the selection and preparation of the 
materials are the next matters to receive attention. Very often 
materials that are on hand are utilized in this way, but if it is possi- 
sible to select the ingredients expressly for the salad, they should be 
very carefully chosen. Any kind of salad, but particularly a vege- 
table or a fruit salad, becomes much more attractive if it is made 
with ingredients that are in good condition and that are attractive 
in appearance. They should therefore be fresh and crisp and never 
mushy, wilted, nor limp. Of course, this does not mean that material 
that is slightly unattractive must be discarded, for it can usually be 
prepared so that it can be utilized in some way. However, much of 
the deterioration of salad ingredients before they are used can be 
avoided if proper attention is given to them after they come into 
the home. Without doubt, the best way in which to keep radishes, 
celery, parsley, watercress, and other greens that are much used in 
salads is to wrap them loosely in a moist cloth as soon as they are 
received in the home and then put them in a cool place. Small 
muslin or linen bags having a draw-string in the top are very good 
for this purpose, but they are not a necessity, for old napkins or 
small pieces of worn cloth will do very well. 

22. Cleaning and Preslienlng Salad Ingredients. — In the 

making of a salad, the cleaning of the ingredients used is a very 
important part of the work. While nothing should be wasted in the 
process of preparation, decayed or discolored leaves, stems, or parts 
of fruits and vegetables should, of course, be removed. Every 
lettuce leaf and every part of other salad vegetables should be looked 
over carefully and washed separately in cold water. To accomplish 
this, the stalks or leaves must be taken apart after the root is cut off. 
Then, before they are used, they should be examined carefully again 
in order to make sure that no small bugs nor worms and no dirt 
remain on them. Such vegetables will become crisp if they are 
allowed to remain in cold water long enough to bring back their 
natural freshness. A little ice added to the water helps to accom- 
plish this more quickly. It should be remembered, however that let- 
tuce leaves bruise and break easily and so must be handled carefully 
if the best appearance is desired. 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 9 

23. When cucumbers are to be used for salad, they should be 
peeled and put immediately into cold water to become crisp, or they 
may first be sliced or diced and then put into the cold water. They 
should never be allowed to stand for any length of time in salt 
water. If it is desired to season them with salt, a little may be added 
to the water in which they are made crisp, but it will also be neces- 
sary to add ice to make the water as cold as possible. The old idea 
that soaking cucumbers in salted water removes something injurious 
has been proved to be untrue, and they are just as satisfactory, so 
far as their flavor and condition are concerned, when they are not 
subjected to this treatment. Radishes, celery, and cabbage may be 
made crisp in the same way as are cucumbers and lettuce. 

In the event that any of these vegetables are allowed to stand in 
water, they must be properly drained before they are used in a salad, 
for any water that remains on them will dilute the dressing. If 
they must be dried very quickly, they may be patted carefully 
between folds of cloth, preferably linen or cheesecloth, or they may 
be allowed to stand for a few minutes in a wire basket or a colander. 
Care should be taken, however, not to allow them to stand until the 
good that has been accomplished by making them crisp in cold water 
is undone. 

24. Preparing Fruits for Salads. — After fruits have been 
carefully cleaned, they are ready to be peeled and cut into pieces of 
the size desired for the salad. An effort should always be made to 
have the pieces equal in size, similar in shape, and not too small. 
They should be peeled in an economical way, but at the same time 
should be prepared as attractively as possible. 

25. In the preparation of oranges for a salad, the fruit is peeled 
as if it were an apple, the peeling being cut deeply enough to remove 
the skin that covers the sections. After the entire orange is peeled, 
the contents of each section should be removed by passing a sharp 
knife as closely as possible to the skin between the sections and then 
taking out the pulp without any of this skin. The sections may then 
be used whole or cut into pieces. 

Grapefruit may be prepared in the same way as oranges. Upon 
the removal of the whole sections, they may be left whole or they 
may be cut once or twice, depending on the kind of salad and the 
appearance desired. When grapefruit or oranges are prepared in 
this manner, they make a much more agreeable ingredient for fruit 



10 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

salad than when they are simply cut into chunks and the tough skin 
is allowed to remain on the pieces. No waste need be permitted in 
this process, for the juice may be extracted from what remains after 
the sections have been removed by pressing it in a fruit press or by 
any other means and then utilized in the making of the salad dress- 
ing or kept for some other purpose. 

Bananas, which are often used in salads, should be peeled, any 
bruised or decayed portions should be removed, and the surface 
should then be scraped slightly with a paring knife in order to remove 
the pithy surface, which, when eaten, has a puckery, disagreeable 
effect. 

26. When fruits of any kind have been prepared for salad and 
cannot be used at once, they may be kept from wilting and discolor- 
ing if they are put where they will keep cool and are sprinkled with 
a little lemon juice that is slightly diluted with water. Before the 
salad materials are mixed with the salad dressing, however, all juices 
or liquid of any kind should be carefully drained from them, for 
these will dilute the dressing and produce a salad that is less appe- 
tizing in both appearance and flavor. 

27. Preparing Nuts for Salads. — ^When nuts are to be used 
in a salad, they should never be ground in a grinder; rather, they 
should be chopped or cut into small pieces with a knife. After being 
so prepared, they should be added to the salad just before it is put 
on the table. This is a matter that should not be overlooked, for if 
the salad is allowed to stand very long after the nuts are added they 
will discolor the dressing and cause the salad to become dark and 
gray looking. 

28. Marinating Salad Ingredients. — To improve the flavor 
of such salads as chicken, veal, lobster, or crab, the ingredients are 
usually marinated with a sour dressing of some description before 
the salad dressing is added. As is explained in Essentials of 
Cookery, Part 2, marinating involves the seasoning of meat or fish 
by means of vinegar or French dressing. The preparation used to 
marinate salad ingredients may be plain vinegar to which salt and 
pepper are added, or it may be a French dressing, which is prepared 
by mixing vinegar, olive oil, salt, and pepper in the proper propor- 
tions. Whichever preparation is used should be poured over the 
materials after they are cut or prepared for the salad, and only 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 11 

enough to moisten each piece slightly should be used. The ingre- 
dients should then be carefully mixed with the dressing to avoid 
breaking or crushing them and should be allowed to stand in a cold 
place for a few minutes. Then they should be drained so that none 
of the material used to marinate them remains on the salad when 
the other dressing is added. With this done, the salad is ready for 
whatever salad dressing is to be used. 

29. Potato salad and salads containing such vegetables as car- 
rots, peas, string beans, etc. are also improved by being marinated 
in the same way as salads made of meat, fowl, and fish. This 
sort of preparation involves a little more work, it is true, but it 
usually produces such gratifying results that it justifies the expendi- 
ture of the extra effort. In the first place, a slightly smaller amount 
of salad dressing will be required when the ingredients are marinated 
and, in addition, 'a better looking dish can be made, for the dressing 
need not be mixed with the salad but merely placed on top. 

30. In case the housewife prefers not to take the time nor the 
trouble to marinate a salad, she should at least mix thoroughly with 
salt and pepper the ingredients that require seasoning. The fact 
that a salad should be a well and highly seasoned dish must never 
be overlooked. As can be readily understood, a bland salad without 
character is never so appetizing as one that is crisp, fresh, well made, 
and properly seasoned. 

SERVING SALADS 

31. Several different ways of serving salads are in practice. 
Perhaps the most convenient method of serving this dish is to pre- 
pare individual portions of it on salad plates in the kitchen and then 
set these on the table at each person's place. If a simple table service 
is followed, the salad may be put on the table at the same time as 
the rest of the meal. The correct position for the salad plate is 
at the left-hand side of the dinner plate and just a little nearer 
to the edge of the table than the bread-and-butter plate. The plates 
on which salad is served should be large enough to prevent the 
difficulty in eating that would be experienced if the plate were a 
trifle small. It should therefore be remembered that the salad plate 
is the next larger in size to the bread-and-butter plate. 



13 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

32. In case individual salads are to be prepared, the plate should 
first be garnished with whatever vegetable green is selected for this 
purpose. If lettuce is to be used, a single leaf, several very small 
center leaves, or a small quantity of shredded lettuce will be suffi- 
cient, for a great deal of garnish is never desirable. In case the 
leaves are very large, one may be divided in half and each part 
utilized. Then the salad ingredients, which have already been com- 
bined, should be piled in a neat heap on top of the garnish either 
with or without the salad dressing. If the salad dressing is not 
mixed with the materials, a spoonful or two of it should be placed 
on top of them. Sometimes, for the effect of color, additional 
garnish of some kind is used. For a vegetable or a meat salad, this 
may be egg yolk put through a sieve, slices of hard-cooked eggs, 
olives or radishes cut in fancy shapes, or strips of pimiento ; and for 
fruit salad, it may be cherries or colored fruits cut into various 
fancy shapes. 

33. Another method of serving this dish is to place the entire 
salad on a rather large, deep plate, such as a chop plate or a regular 
salad dish, and then serve it at the table whenever it is desired. 
When this is done, the dish that is used should be well garnished 
with a bed of vegetable green in the same way that a small individual 
plate is garnished. Then the salad ingredients should be nicely 
arranged on this bed, and the dressing, if it has not already been 
mixed with them, should be poured over the whole. In serving 
salad in this way, there is much more chance of arranging the ingre- 
dients symmetrically and garnishing the salad attractively than when 
it is served on small plates. The large plate containing the salad, 
together with the small salad plates, should be placed before the host- 
ess or whoever is to serve the salad. When it is served, a leaf of the 
lettuce or other green used for garnishing should first be put on each 
salad plate and the salad should be served on this. A large fork 
and a large spoon are needed when salad is served in this manner. 

34. Still another way of serving salad, and perhaps a more 
attractive one than either of those already described, consists in 
arranging the ingredients in a salad bowl, placing this on the table, 
and serving from the bowl to the salad plates. In this method, a 
French dressing is generally used, and this is often mixed at the 
table and added to the salad just before it is put on the small plates. 
Such a salad can be made very attractive, and it should be remem- 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 13 

bered above all things that the appearance of a salad is its great 
asset until it is eaten and that an artistically made salad always helps 
to make the meal more satisfactory. 

35. In a dinner, the salad is generally served as a separate 
course, but in such a meal as luncheon it may be used as the main 
dish. If it is used as a separate course, it should be served imme- 
diately after the dinner course has been removed from the table. 
The salad plate should be placed directly before the person served. 
Forks especially designed with a wide prong on one side and known 
as salad forks are the right type of fork to serve with this dish, but 
if none are available ordinary table forks of a small size may be 
used. It should be remembered that the salad should not be cut with 
the knife at the table, but should be eaten entirely with the fork. 



SALAB DRESSINGS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

36. As has been implied, various salad dressings may be made 
to serve with salads. The kind of dressing to select depends both 
on the variety of salad served and on the personal preference of 
those to whom it is served. Some of these contain only a few ingre- 
dients and are comparatively simple to make, while others are 
complex and involve considerable work in their making. Whether 
simple or elaborate, however, the salad dressing should be carefully 
chosen, so that it will blend well with the ingredients of the salad 
with which it is used. 

A number of recipes for salad dressings are here given. They are 
taken up before the recipes for salads so that the beginner will be 
familiar with the different varieties when they are mentioned in 
connection with the salads. As many of the recipes as possible 
should be tried, not only for the knowledge that will be gained, but 
also for the practical experience. 

37. French. Dressing. — ^A dressing that is very simply made 
and that can probably be used with a greater variety of salads than 
any other is French dressing. For instance, it may be used with any 
vegetable salad, with salads containing almost any combination of 
fruit, and with meat, fish, and egg salads. It is true, of course, 
that fruit-salad dressing blends very well with fruit salad and is 
considered by most persons to be more delicious than French dress- 



14 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

ing, but if one is pressed for time and does not have the necessary- 
ingredients for making any other kind, this one may nearly always 
be utilized. In addition to these uses, French dressing, as has been 
previously explained, may also be used to marinate salads before 
mayonnaise or other dressing is mixed with them. A point that 
should always be remembered in the making of this dressing or any 
other dressing containing oil is that the flavor of the oil has much 
to do with the desirability of the finished dressing. 

French Dressing 
I tsp. salt i tsp. mustard 

I tsp. pepper 3 Tb. vinegar 

I tsp. paprika ^ c. oil 

Measure the dry ingredients and place them in a bowl. Measure 
the .vinegar and oil and add them to the dry ingredients. If possible, 
place a piece of ice the size of a walnut in the bowl. Beat with a 
fork until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed and the oil and 
vinegar form an emulsion that will remain for a short time. The 
ingredients will separate if the dressing is allowed to stand, but the 
colder they are, the more easily will the emulsion form and the longer 
will it remain. If ice cannot be used, have the ingredients as cold as 
possible before mixing them. 

38. Sometimes a more highly seasoned French dressing is 
desired. In such an event, there should be beaten into the dressing 
just described the following ingredients : 

2 Tb. finely chopped onion or 2 Tb. chopped pimiento 

1 Tb. onion juice 1 large green pepper, chopped 

2 Tb. chopped parsley 

39. Mayonnaise Dressing. — Although mayonnaise dressing 
is prepared without the application of heat, it is not one of the 
simplest dressings to prepare. It meets with much favor, being 
used almost as extensively as French dressing, but it is perhaps less 
desirable with fruit salads than with others. It is also much used as 
a basis for numerous other dressings. Since it requires considerable 
time for its preparation, a wise plan is to make more than enough 
for one meal. However, it should not be made in large quantities, 
for the oil separates from the remainder of the ingredients if it is 
allowed to stand too long. If it is thoroughly beaten and kept 
extremely cold, it may perhaps keep for a week, but keeping it 
longer than that is not advisable. Before serving, it may be thinned 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 15 

by beating either sweet or sour cream into it. It may be made fluffy 
and light and its quantity may be increased by beating whipped 
cream into it. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

f tsp. salt 2 egg yolks 

I tsp. pepper 1| c. oil 

^ tsp. mustard 4 Tb. vinegar or lemon juice 

Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl. Separate the eggs and add the 
yolks to the dry ingredients. Beat these with a rotary egg beater 
until they are well mixed. To this mixture, add a few drops of oil 
and continue to beat. Add a drop of the vinegar or lemon juice, a 
few more drops of oil, and beat constantly. Gradually increase the 
quantity of oil added each time, but do not do this rapidly. As 
the oil is added and the beating is continued, it will be noted that the 
mixture grows thicker, but when vinegar is added the mixture is 
thinned. The quantity of vinegar is so much less than that of oil 
that the oil may be added in small amounts two or three times in 
succession before vinegar is added. 

This process is rather long and slow, but if the mixing is done 
correctly, the result will be a thick, smooth mixture that will not 
separate for possibly 6 or 7 days. Mayonnaise mixers, which may 
be procured for making this dressing, make the work easier, but 
they are not at all necessary. Mayonnaise may be made as success- 
fully with a bowl and a rotary beater, if it will just be remembered 
that the liquid ingredients must be added slowly and that they must 
be as cold as possible. 

40. Cooked. Mayonnaise. — A dressing that is very similar 
both in texture and taste to the mayonnaise just explained and per- 
haps a little easier to make is known as cooked mayonnaise. This 
dressing, as will be noted from the accompanying recipe, may be 
made in larger quantities than the uncooked mayonnaise. 
Cooked Mayonnaise 

2 Tb. oil i tsp. mustard 

4 Tb. flour I tsp. paprika 

f c. vinegar 2 eggs 

1 c. boiling water 2 c. oil 

1 Tb. salt 

Mix the 2 tablespoonfuls of oil and the flour and pour in the vine- 
gar. Add the boiling water and stir the mixture until it is perfectly 
smooth and well mixed. Place over the fire and cook for about 



16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

5 minutes. Remove from the fire and cool. When completely 
cooled, add the salt, mustard, and paprika. Separate the eggs and 
beat the yolks and whites separately. Add the egg yolks to the 
mixture. Add the 2 cupfuls of oil a little at a time, beating thor- 
oughly with a rotary beater each time oil is added. When all of this 
is completely mixed and thoroughly beaten, fold in the stiffly beaten 
egg whites. 

41. Thousand Island Dressing. — By using the cooked or 
the uncooked mayonnaise dressing as a basis and adding to it the 
ingredients listed here, a very delightful salad dressing, called Thou- 
sand Island dressing, is the result. All the ingredients need not be 
added if it is inconvenient to do so, still the dressing is better when 
they are all used. This dressing is particularly good when served 
with plain -lettuce salad, with lettuce and tomatoes, with lettuce, 
tomatoes, and cucumbers, or with any other plain-vegetable salad. 

Thousand Island Dressing 

1 c. mayonnaise dressing 2 Tb. chopped green pepper 
i c. chilli sauce 1 Tb. chopped onion 

2 Tb. chopped pimiento 1 hard-cooked egg 

Into the mayonnaise stir the chilli sauce, pimiento, pepper, and 
onion, and, lastly, add the hard-cooked egg chopped into fine pieces. 
Chill and serve. 

42. Boiled Salad Dressing. — Although boiled salad dressing 
is not so great a favorite as the uncooked mayonnaise dressing, it 
has the advantage of being less expensive. Then, too, it is one of 
the dressings that may be made without oil, and so finds favor with 
those to whom oil is not agreeable. However, oil may be substituted 
for the butter that is given in the recipe. It will be noted that the 
preparation of this dressing is similar to that of a custard with the 
addition of flour. Since the flour requires longer cooking than the 
eggs, thej are added last so that there will be no danger of overcook- 
ing them. If the dressing curdles, it may be known that the eggs 
have cooked too long, but this condition may be remedied by placing 
the pan containing the dressing in a pan of cold water as soon as the 
curdling is observed and then beating vigorously with a rotary beater. 

Boiled Salad Dressing 
2 Tb. butter 1 tsp. mustard 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. milk 

1 tsp. salt 2 eggs 

2 tsp. sugar i c. vinegar 



§16 ' SALADS AND SANDWICHES 17 

Melt the butter in the inner pan of a double boiler, add the flour, 
salt, sugar, mustard, and milk. Cook over the flame until the mix- 
ture is thickened. Beat the eggs, stir them into the mixture, and 
add the vinegar, beating rapidly. Place in the large pan of the 
double boiler and allow this to cook until the eggs have thickened. 
Cool and serve. 

43. Sour-Cream Dressing. — Sour-cream dressing is not a 
very economical one to make unless there happens to be sour cream 
on hand. It is, however, a very good dressing for both fruit and 
vegetable salad. 

Sour-Cream Dressing 

2 Tb. butter ^ c. vinegar 

3 Tb. flour 1 c. sour cream 
2 Tb. sugar 2 eggs 

1 tsp. salt 1 c. whipped cream 

Melt the butter in the upper part of a double boiler, add the flour, 
sugar, salt, vinegar, and sour cream. Cook together over the flame 
until the mixture thickens. Beat the egg yolks and add them to this. 
Place in the lower part of the double boiler and cook until the egg 
yolks thicken. Beat the egg whites and fold them with the whipped 
cream into the salad dressing. Cool and serve. 

44. Cream. Dressing. — A simple dressing that requires very 
little time or skill in preparation and that affords a means of using 
up cream that has soured is the one given in the accompanying 
recipe. Sweet cream may also be used in the same way if desired, 
and this makes an excellent dressing for cabbage salad, plain cucum- 
ber salad with lettuce, or fruit salad. If the dressing is to be used 
for fruit salad, lemon juice may be used in the place of vinegar. 

Cream Dressing 

1 c. sour cream -J tsp. salt 

2 Tb. sugar ^ c. vinegar 

Whip the cream with a rotary beater until it is stiff. Then add 
the sugar, salt, and vinegar, and continue beating until the mixture 
is well blended. Cool and serve. v^ 



wi— CV-3 



18 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

VARIETIES OP SAIjADS AND THEIR PREPARATION 



TBGETABLE SAIiADS 

45. With the knowledge already obtained of the food value of 
the vegetables that are generally used as ingredients in vegetable 
salads, the housewife ought to have no difficulty in determining 
whether she is giving her family a salad that is high or low in food 
value. For instance, she should know that the food value of a plain 
lettuce or cucumber salad is lower than that of one made from pota- 
toes because of the different values in the vegetables used. In addi- 
tion, she ought to be familiar with the fact that the dressing added 
to salads has, in most cases, greater food value than the other ingre- 
dients of the salad. Equipped with such knowledge, she will observe 
that the vegetable salads here given are comparatively low in food 
value. Consequently, nearly every one of them will lend itself nicely 
for use with a dinner or a comparatively heavy meal. 

46. In these recipes, as well as in those for the other kinds of 
salad, the proportion of ingredients may be varied according to the 
quantity of the particular food in supply. For instance, if a recipe 
for a salad of pea"- and celery calls for 1 cupful of each of these 
vegetables and only f cupful of celery can be obtained, there is no 
reason why the difference cannot be made up by using IJ cupfuls 
of peas. But if such a change is to be made, the ingredients should 
be increased or decreased in the correct proportion. Then the quan- 
tity of salad that the recipe is intended to produce will not be altered 
and the housewife will know just how many the salad will serve. 
In the various recipes, about i cupful of salad is the quantity 
allowed for each person. This may be enlarged or made smaller in 
order to suit the quantity of other foods served at the same meal. 

47. Asparagrus Salad. — Salad in which asparagus is the chief 
ingredient is one that may be served during the entire year, for either 
freshly cooked or canned asparagus may be used ; in fact, the canned 
asparagus is considered by many persons to be better than that which 
is freshly cooked. It may be cut into inch lengths or the tips may be 
cut down about 4 inches from the top or even farther. 

Asparagus Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Five) 

Lettuce 1 pimiento 

1 can asparagus Salad dressing 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



19 



Garnish salad plates with the lettuce. Place the asparagus tips in 
an orderly pile on the lettuce leaf. Cut a thin strip of the pimiento, 
and place this across the tips in the center. Just before serving, pour 
a spoonful or two of any desired salad dressing over this or place the 
salad on the table and serve the dressing, allowing each person to 
take what is desired. 

48. Beet-and-Bean Salad. — ^An excellent winter salad and 
one that may be made from canned or left-over vegetables is beet- 
and-bean salad. If string beans happen to be left over or only part 
of a can remains, they may be combined with beets that are canned 
or freshly cooked for the purpose. This salad should be carefully 
combined just before serving, since the beets will discolor the rest of 
the ingredients if it is allowed to stand any length of time. 

Beet-and-Bean Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 c. string beans Lettuce 

1 c. beets Salad dressing 

Cut the string beans into half-inch lengths and cut the beets into 
half-inch dice. Season each well with salt and pepper. Just before 
serving, garnish salad 
plates with lettuce, com- 
bine the two vegetables, 
and place in a Tieap on 
a lettuce leaf. Pour 
French dressing or any 
other salad dressing de- 
sired over them, but do 
not mix the salad dress- 
ing with the vegetables. 

49. Cabbage Sal- 
ad. — A salad that al- 
ways finds favor is made 
by combining cabbage 
with a boiled salad dressing or with an uncooked sour-cream dressing. 
Salad of this kind may be served in any desired way, but a rather 
novel way to serve it is illustrated in Fig. 2. The contents of a head 
of cabbage is removed, leaving four or five of the outside leaves 
intact. The shell thus formed is cut into points around the top and 
then filled with shredded cabbage and the dressing that is to be used. 




Fig. 2 



20. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 




When this is placed on a bed of lettuce, an attractive dish is the 
result. 

To make cabbage salad, select a firm head of cabbage, pull off the 
outside leaves, and wash. Cut the head in half down through the 
heart and root and cut each half into quarters. Then, as shown in 
Fig. 3, place each quarter on a cutting board and with a sharp knife 
shave off the cabbage. If desired, however, the cabbage may be 

shredded with a cabbage 
cutter. If the cabbage, 
upon being cut, is found 
to be wilted, place it in 
cold water and let it 
stand until it becomes 
crisp. Drain off the 
water carefully and 
allow the cabbage to drip 
in a colander or dry it 
between pieces of eld 
linen. With the cabbage 
thus prepared, season it 
with salt and mix it with 
the desired dressing. Serve on lettuce in a salad dish, on individual 
salad plates, or in the manner shown in Fig. 2. 

50. Cabbage-and-Celery Salad. — Cabbage and celery com- 
bine very well, for they are similar in color and crispness. They 
can be procured at the same time of the year, and while celery is not 
cheap, cabbage is a comparatively inexpensive food and the two 
combined make an inexpensive salad. Because the color of both is 
very much the same, pimiento is added to give a contrasting color. 
Cabbage-and-Celery Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 c. cabbage 2 Tb. vinegar 

1 c. celery Lettuce 

1 pimiento or green pepper Salad dressing 
I tsp. salt 

Cut the cabbage in the manner just explained, cut the celery into 
thin pieces across the stem, and dice the green pepper or pimiento or 
both into very small dice. Measure each of these, combine them, 
season with the salt and vinegar, and just before serving drain care- 
fully. Serve on lettuce with any desired salad dressing. 



Fig. 3 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 21 

51. Winter Salad. — ^A salad made entirely of winter vege- 
tables ma}' be prepared when there are no fresh vegetables in supply. 
If any of the vegetables are left over, the others may be prepared to 
use with the left-over ones. A good plan to follow when carrots, 
turnips, or potatoes are being prepared for a meal is to cook more 
than is necessary for the one meal and then set aside part of them 
for a salad to be served at another meal. 

Winter Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. turnips, diced French dressing 

1 c. carrots, diced Lettuce 

1 c. potatoes, diced Salad dressing 
1 Tb. chopped onion 

Cook turnips, carrots, and potatoes whole in boiling water until 
tender enough to be pierced with a fork. If they have not been 
peeled before cooking, peel and cut into small dice. Mix, add the 
onion, marinate with French dressing, and allow to stand for a short 
time. Garnish salad plates with lettuce leaves, pile the salad on the 
lettuce, and serve with any desired salad dressing. 

52. Cauliflower Salad. — Cauliflower makes a rather unusual 
salad, and for a change it will be found to be delightful. It does 
not combine with other vegetables very readily, but a cooked floweret 
or two may often be used to garnish another vegetable salad. 

Cauliflower Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

Cauliflower Salad dressing 

Lettuce 
Prepare a head of cauliflower for cooking according to the direc- 
tions given in Vegetables, Part 1. Cook in boiling salted water until 
tender, but quite firm. Drain and cool. Arrange the flowerets on 
a salad plate garnished with lettuce and serve with French dressing 
or any other desired salad dressing. 

53. Cauliflower-and-Tomato Salad. — ^A salad in which 
cauliflower and tomatoes are combined is attractive in appearance 
if it is nicely made. It also has the advantage of being simple to 
prepare. When cauliflower is cooked for salad, care must be taken 
not to cook it so long as to discolor it or cause it to fall to pieces. 

Cauliflower-and-Tomato Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 tomatoes 6 cauliflower flowerets 

Lettuce Dressing 



22 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



Select firm, ripe, medium-sized tomatoes. Place them in boiling 
water to scald them, and then dip them quickly into cold water and 
remove the skins. Cut out the stem ends and slice each tomato 
half way between the stem and blossom ends. Place each half 
tomato on a salad plate garnished with a lettuce leaf, stick a stem of 
the cauliflower into the center, and serve with boiled salad dressing 
or mayonnaise. 

54. Celery Salad. — One means of using stalks of celery that 
are just a little too coarse to serve nicely on the table is to combine 
them with radishes and make a salad. The more tender celery, of 
course, makes a better salad. If the radishes selected for the salad 
are of the red variety and they are used without peeling, they add a 
touch of color to the dish. 

Celery Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Five) 

li c. diced celery Salad dressing 

i c. diced radishes Lettuce 

2 Tb. chopped onion 

Cut the celery into fine dice, and dice the radishes more finely 
than the celery. Mix the two together, add the onion, and just before 
serving mix with any desired salad dressing. Serve on salad plates 
garnished with lettuce. 

55. Sliced Cucumber-and-Onlon Salad. — An attractive 
way in which to serve sliced cucumbers and onions is shown in 



■ 


■ 


i 


i|^^^^^^^3 


Wi 


i 


WKk 




^ 




•^ 


^^^^„^^^^^^.^ 




-<- 


/«■ 








'^!^^^H|^HHH 


! /■- 


/ 


Q 




^^^ 


^^Ib 


6^''"^^^ 


1 


1? 




^1^^ 


u 


F "' ^ w 


i^^\<^ 


k--^ 


^'-3 




jftkfiki^ 


9P 


y^H 


^ 


^ 

M 




-=~,^ ^TT!^^ 


s 


Hjlj^ 

1 


^^B 




^9 



Fig. 4 

Fig. 4. A single large cucumber should be selected for this salad, 
and Bermuda onions with a mild flavor will be found to be best. 

With a sharp knife, peel the skin from the cucumber in narrow 
strips back to the stem end, but do not cut the strips loose from the 
end. After the peeling has all been removed, place the cucumber 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



23 



on a board and cut it into thin slices. Place on a small platter, as 
shown, arrange slices of onion around the edge, and pour French 
dressing over the whole. Dust with paprika and serve. A number 
of slices of cucumber and one or two slices of onion should be served 
to each person. 

56. Cucumber Salad. — Besides serving plain slices of cucum- 
ber on a lettuce leaf, as may be done at any time, cucumbers may 




Fig. 5 

be used as an ingredient in the making of many salads. A rather 
attractive way in which to use cucumbers is shown in Fig. 5 and is 
explained in the accompanying recipe. 

Cucumber Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 medium-sized cucumbers Salad dressing 

1 c. diced tomato Lettuce 

^ c. diced celery 1 pimiento 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them into halves, and with a small spoon 
scoop out the cucumbers in chunks, so that a boat-shaped piece of 
cucumber that is about ^ inch thick remains. Dice the pieces of 
cucumber which have been scooped from the center, and place 
the cucumber shells in ice water so as to make them crisp. Mix the 
diced tomato, celery, and cucumber together, and just before serving 
drain them carefully so that no liquid remains. Mix with salad 
dressing, wipe the cucumber shells dry, fill them with the salad 
mixture, and place on salad plates garnished with lettuce leaves. 
Cut the pimiento into thir. strips, and place three or four strips 
diagonally across the cucumber, as shown in the illustration. 

57. Cucumber-and-Tomato Salad. — A salad made of 
cucumbers and tomatoes is very attractive because of the contrasting 



24 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

colors of the vegetables, and it is at the same time extremely pala- 
table. When such a salad is to be made, small, firm tomatoes and 
rather large cucumbers that do not contain very large seeds should 
be selected. Peel the cucumbers and tomatoes and cut them into 
sUces of any desired thickness. Garnish salad plates with lettuce, 
and on this place a ring of the slices, alternating the tomatoes with 
the cucumbers. In the center, put a slice of cucumber or tomato 
and serve with any desired salad dressing. 

58. Onion Salad. — To persons who are fond of the flavor of 

onions, the salad given in the accompanying recipe is very agreeable, 

out it is a wise plan not to serve onions or salads containing onions 

unless every one who is served is certain to enjoy them. When a 

salad is made from onions, a mild onion, such as the Bermuda or 

Spanish onion, should be selected. 

Onion Salad 
(SufiScient to Serye Six) 

3 onions French dressing 

Parsley Lettuce 

Peel the onions and slice them into thiri slices. Chop the parsley 
and add it to 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of French dressing. Use com- 
paratively coarse leaves of lettuce and shred them. Arrange the 
slices of onion on a bed of the shredded lettuce, pour the French 
dressing with the parsley over all, and serve. 

59. Peas-and-Celery Salad. — Peas may be freshly cooked 
for peas-and-celery salad, but canned peas will do just as well. Left- 
over peas not prepared with cream sauce may also be utilized nicely 
in this way, or if a portion of a can of peas is needed for the meal, 
the remainder may be used for a smaller quantity of salad than here 
stated. Boiled salad dressing will be found to be best for this com- 
bination of vegetables. 

Peas-and-Celery Salad 
(Sufl&cient to Serve Four) 

1 c. peas Boiled salad dressing 

1 c. diced celery Lettuce 

Drain canned peas as dry as possible and mix with the diced celery. 
Just before serving, add the salad dressing and mix thoroughly. 
Serve on salad plates garnished with lettuce. 

60. Tomato Salad. — Fresh tomatoes make a delightful salad 
because of their appetizing appearance and color. In fact, when they 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



25 



are placed on a bed of green garnish, nothing can be more dehghtful. 
Tomatoes may be served whole on a lettuce leaf or they may be 




Fig. 6 

sliced. Then, again, as shown in Fig. 6, they may be cut from the 
center into sections that are allowed to fall part way open. In any 
of these forms, they may be served with French dressing, mayon- 
naise, or any cooked salad dressing. 

61. Stuffed-Tomato Salad. — ^An attractive salad in which 
vegetables of almost any kind, fresh or canned, may be used to 
advantage is the stufTed-tomato salad shown in Fig. 7. Medium- 
sized, well-ripened tomatoes are best to select. The vegetables that 




Fig. 7 



may be used for the stuffing are celery, radishes, onions, cucumbers, 
cooked asparagus, green peas, and string beans. Any one or any 



26 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

desirable combination of these vegetables will make a satisfactory- 
filling. 

Stuffed-Tomato Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 medium-sized tomatoes French dressing 

1 J c. diced vegetables Mayonnaise dressing 

Cut out the stem and blossom ends of the tomatoes and hollow out 
the center so as to leave a shell. Dice the contents of the tomatoes 
and mix with the other diced vegetables. Marinate the diced vege- 
tables with French dressing and put into the tomato shells, heaping 
each one as shown. Place on lettuce leaves and serve with mayon- 
naise. 

63. Combination Salad. — ^A combination salad may be made 
of almost any combination of vegetables. The one given here con- 
tains only fresh vegetables, but, if desired, others may be added or 
some of those mentioned may be omitted. This will be found to be 
a very attractive way in which to make a large salad to be served 
from a bowl or a deep plate. 

Combination Salad 

Lettuce Radishes cut in rose shape 

Sliced tomatoes Celery 

Sliced onions Salad dressing 

Sliced peppers 

Garnish a bowl or a plate with lettuce, arrange on it slices of 
tomato, Spanish or Bermuda onions, and peppers. Garnish these 
with radishes cut into rose shape and stems of celery cut in any 
desired way. Be sure that the vegetables, which should all be crisp 
and fresh, are thoroughly cleaned and drained before being put on 
the plate. Add the salad dressing in the preferred way. It may be 
poured over the vegetables in the large dish, passed to each indi- 
vidual, or put on the salad plates by the person who serves. French 
dressing is without doubt the most suitable for combination salad, 
but mayonnaise or cooked salad dressing may be served with it if 
desired. 

63. Potato Salad No. 1. — Potato salad is usually considered 
to be an economical salad. It may be made with left-over potatoes 
or potatoes cooked especially for this purpose. If there are in supply 
a large number of small potatoes, which are difficult to use in ordi- 
nary ways, they may be cooked with the skins on and peeled to be 



§16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 27 

used for salad when they have cooled. A boiled salad dressing is 
perhaps the most desirable for such a salad. 

Potato Salad No. 1 

(SufEcient to Serve Fonr) 

2 c. diced potatoes Salt 

1 medium-sized onion Boiled salad dressing 

i tsp. celery seed Lettuce 

1 Tb. parsley, chopped 1 hard-coofeed egg 

Dice the potatoes into 4-inch dice, chop the onion fine, and mix 
the two. Add the celery seed and parsley and season the whole with 
salt. Just before serving, mix well with boiled dressing. Garnish 
a salad bowl or salad plates with lettuce, place the salad on the 
lettuce, and then garnish with slices of hard-cooked egg. 

64. Potato Salad. No. 2. — The salad given in the accompany- 
ing recipe is perhaps more of a combination of vegetables than it is 
a potato salad. However, if there is in supply a small amount of 
celery, or perhaps a cucumber, or both, this is an excellent way in 
which to make use of them. In addition to the ingredients given in 
the recipe, others may be added to this salad, such as a few diced 
radishes, a diced green pepper or two, or a pimiento. 

Potato Salad No. 2 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. diced potatoes Salt 

i c. diced cucumber Boiled salad dressing 

i c. diced celery Lettuce 

1 medium-sized onion 
Prepare the vegetables in the usual way, dicing them carefully, 
and just before serving mix them together, season well with salt, 
and add the salad dressing. Boiled dressing is preferable. Place 
in a salad bowl or on salad plates garnished with lettuce. 

65. Old-Fashioned Potato Salad. — The potato salad given 
in this recipe is agreeable to persons .who like the flavor of smoked 
meat. It is an excellent salad to serve for a lunch or a supper with 
cold ham, frankfurters, or any cold sliced meat. 

Old-Fashioned Potato Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 c. sliced boiled potatoes | c. water 

2 thin slices bacon Salt 

1 Tb. flour Pepper 

i c. vinegar 2 Tb. parsley, chopped 

Slice cold boiled potatoes into medium thick slices. Cut the strips 
of bacon into small cubes and fry until crisp in a frying pan. Stir 



28 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



the flour into the hot fat, and to this add the vinegar and water. 
Season this dressing well with salt and pepper and pour it hot over 
the potatoes, mixing carefully so as not to break the slices. Add the 
chopped parsley last. Serve warm if desired, or allow it to cool 
before serving. 

66. Tomato-and-String-Bean Salad. — Besides being appe- 
tizing in flavor and appearance, tomato-and-string-bean salad, which 
is illustrated in Fig. 8, has the advantage over some salads in that 
it can be made of either fresh or canned vegetables. For the salad 
here shown, tomatoes and beans canned by the cold-pack method 
were used. If it is desired to duplicate this salad, place a canned 
tomato or a peeled fresh tomato in the center of a plate garnished 




Fig. 8 

with lettuce and around it place several piles of three or four canned 
or freshly cooked beans. Serve with French dressing or any other 
desired salad dressing. 

67. String-Bean Salad. — Either string or wax beans may be 
used for string-bean salad, which is shown in Fig. 9, and they may 
be cooked freshly for the purpose or be home canned or commer- 
cially canned beans. To make this salad, place a neat pile of beans 
on a lettuce leaf resting on a plate and moisten with a few drops of 
vinegar or lemon juice. Serve with mayonnaise or cooked salad 
dressing. If desired, the beans may be cut into inch lengths and 
mixed with the dressing, but this does not make so attractive a salad. 

68. Green- Vegetable Salad. — There are a number of green 
vegetables that are much used for salad either alone or with other 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 29 

vegetables. All of them are used in practically the same way, but 
a point that should not be overlooked if an appetizing salad is desired 
is that they should always be fresh and crisp when served. Any 
salad dressing that is preferred may be served with them. Chief 




Fig. 9 

among these green vegetables come lettuce, including the ordinary 
leaf lettuce, head lettuce, and romaine lettuce, which is not so com- 
mon as the other varieties. Several kinds of endive as well as water- 
cress may also be used for salad. 



COMBINATION FRUIT-AND-VEGETABLE SALADS 

69. Sometimes it is desired to make a salad that contains both 
fruits and vegetables. Various fruits can be used for this purpose, 
but celery, as has been stated, is about the only vegetable that com- 
bines well with fruit, unless, of course, the garnish, which is nearly 
always a vegetable, is considered a part of the salad. Recipes for 
several very appetizing salads containing both vegetables and fruits 
follow. 

70. Apple-and-Celery Salad. — If an excellent winter salad 
is desired, apple-and-celery salad should be selected, for both celery 
and apples are best during the winter months. As they are very 
similar in color, they are not especially appetizing in appearance 
when combined for a salad, but they make a very pooular combi- 
nation with most persons. 

Apple-and-Celery Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 c. diced apples Boiled salad dressing 

1 c. diced celery Lettuce 



30 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

Prepare the apples and celery as short a time before serving as 
possible, but if it is necessary that the apples stand for any length 
of time, sprinkle them with a little lemon juice and water to keep 
them from turning brown. Just before serving, mix them with the 
salad dressing. Place on salad plates garnished with lettuce and 
serve. 

71. Waldorf Salad. — If to the apple-and-celery salad just 
explained i cupful of chopped English walnut meats is added, what 
is known as Waldorf salad will result. The nuts, which should be 
added to the mixture just before placing it on the table, may be mixed 
with the other ingredients or they may be placed on top. Nuts that 
are to be used for such a purpose should not be run through a 
grinder, but should be cut with a knife or chopped with a chopping 
knife and bowl. 

72. Grapefruit-and-Celery Salad. — Celery is sometimes 
used with grapefruit to make a salad. This combination is most 
often served with French dressing, but any other desirable dressing 
may be used as well. Prepare the grapefruit in the same way as 
oranges are prepared for salad, and cut each section into three or 
four pieces. Add to this an equal amount of diced celery and serve 
on a lettuce leaf with any desired dressing. 



FRriT SALADS 

73. Salads made of fruit are undoubtedly the most delicious 
that can be prepared. In addition to being delightful in both appear- 
ance and flavor, they afford another means of introducing fruit into 
the diet. As fruit is decidedly beneficial for all persons with a 
normal digestion, every opportunity to include it in the diet should 
be grasped. 

Some fruit salads are comparatively bland in flavor while others 
are much more acid, but the mild ones are neither so appetizing nor 
so beneficial as those which are somewhat tart. Advantage should 
be taken of the various kinds of fresh fruits during the seasons 
when they can be obtained, for usually ven- appetizing salads can be 
made of them. However, the family need not be deprived of fruit 
salads during the winter when fresh fruits cannot be secured, for 
delicious salads can be made trom canned and dried fruits, as well as 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 31 

from bananas and citrus fruits, which are usually found in all 
markets. 

74. Fruit-Salad. Dressing. — ^Various dressings may be served 
with fruit salad, and usually the one selected depends on the prefer- 
ence of those to whom it is served. However, an excellent dressing 
for salad of this kind and one that most persons find delicious is 
made from fruit juices thickened by means of eggs. Whenever a 
recipe in this Section calls for a fruit-salad dressing, this is the one 
that is intended. 

Fbuit-Salad Dressing 
i c. pineapple, peach, or pear i c. lemon juice 

juice i c. sugar 

■J c. orange juice 2 eggs 

Mix the fruit juices, add the sugar, beat the eggs slightly, and add 
them. Put the whole into a double boiler and cook until the mixture 
begins to thicken. Remove from the fire and beat for a few seconds 
with a rotary egg beater. Cool and serve. 

75. Combination Fruit Salad. — The combination of fruits 
given in the accompanying recipe makes a very good salad, but it 
need not be adhered to strictly. If one or more of the fruits is not 
in supply, it may be omitted and some other used. In case canned 
pineapple is used for the salad, the juice from the fruit may be 
utilized in making a fruit-salad dressing. 

Combination Fruit Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 grapefruit 2 slices pineapple 

2 oranges Salad dressing 

1 banana Lettuce 

2 apples 

Prepare the grapefruit and oranges according to the directions 
previously given. Slice the banana crosswise into :J-inch slices and 
cut each slice into four sections. Dice the apples and cut the pine- 
apple in narrow wedge-shaped pieces. Mix the fruit just before 
serving. Add the salad dressing, which may be fruit-salad dressing, 
French dressing, or some other desirable salad dressing, by mixing 
it with the fruit or merely pouring it over the top. Serve on salad 
plates garnished with lettuce leaves. Place a maraschino cherry on 
top. 

76. Summer Combination Salad. — ^Any agreeable combi- 
nation of fruits which may be obtained during the same season will 



32 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



be suitable for summer combination salad. The combination given 
in the accompanying recipe includes strawberries, pineapple, and 
cherries. However, pineapple and cherries may be used alone, or 
strawberries and pineapple may be used without the cherries, or red 
raspberries may be used to garnish such a salad. 
Summer Combination Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

f c. Strawberries, cut into halves Lettuce 

I c. pineapple, cut into dice Fruit-salad dressing 

f c. sweet cherries, seeded 
Prepare the fruits just before serving. Put them together, place 

on salad plates garnished with lettuce, and serve with the fruit-salad 

dressing. 

77. Filbert-and-Cherry Salad. — If something different in 
the way of salad is desired, cherries that have been seeded and 




Fig. 10 

then filled with filberts will prove a delightful change. With this 
salad, which is shown in Fig. 10, any salad dressing may be served, 
but fruit-salad dressing makes it especially delicious. 

78. Date-and-Englisli-"Walnut Salad. — Persons who are 
fond of dates will find a salad made of dates and walnuts veiy 
palatable. In addition, such a salad is high in food value. Select 
firm whole dates, wash, and dry between clean towels. Cut a slit 
in the side of each date and remove the seed. Place half an English 
walnut meat inside and press the date together. Garnish salad plates 
with lettuce and serve five or six of the dates in a star shape for 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 33 

each serving. In the center, pour a spoonful or two of cream salad 
dressing, boiled salad dressing, or any other dressing that may be 
desired. 

79. Apple-Date-and-Orange Salad. — The combination of 
fruits required by the accompanying recipe is an easy one to procure 
in the winter time. Apple-and-date salad is a combination much 
liked, but unless it is served with a rather sour dressing, it is found 
to be too bland and sweet for most persons. The addition of the 
orange gives just the acid touch that is necessary to relieve this 
monotonous sweetness. 

Apple-Date-and-Orange Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. diced apples Lettuce 

1 c. dates, seeded Salad dressing 

2 oranges 

Peel the apples and dice them into fine pieces. Wash the dates, 
remove the seeds, and cut each date into six or eight pieces. Pre- 
pare the oranges as directed for preparing oranges for salad, and cut 
each section into two or three pieces. Just before servi*hg, mix the 
fruits carefully so as not to make the salad look mushy, pile in a 
neat heap on garnished salad plates, and serve with any desired 
dressing. 

80. California Salad. — During the months in which Cali- 
fornia grapes can be found in the market, a very delicious salad can 
be made by combining them with grapefruit and oranges. Either 
Malaga or Tokay grapes may be used. 

California Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. grapes Lettuce 

2 oranges Salad dressing 

1 grapefruit 
Prepare the grapes by washing them in cold water, cutting them 
into halves, and removing the seeds. Remove the sections from the 
oranges and grapefruit in the way previously directed, and cut each 
section into three or four pieces. Mix the fruits and drain carefully 
so that they contain no juice or liquid. Pile in a heap on salad plates 
garnished with lettuce and serve with any desired dressing. 

81. Banana-and-Peanut Salad. — A very good f ruit-and-nut 
combination for a salad consists of bananas and ground peanuts. 
The bananas, after being cut in half lengthwise, are rolled in the 

WI-C4-4 



34 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

peanuts, placed on a lettuce leaf, and served with dressing. If it is 
desired to improve the flavor, the bananas may be dipped into the 
salad dressing before being rolled in the peanuts. 

Peel the required number of bananas, scrape the pithy material 
from their surface, and cut in half lengthwise. Grind the peanuts 
rather fine and roll each half of banana in them. Place on a gar- 
nished salad plate and serve with boiled dressing. 

82. Fruit In Cantaloupe Shells. — During cantaloupe season, 
a delightful fruit salad can be made by combining several different 
kinds of fruit with the meat of cantaloupe and serving the mixture 
in the cantaloupe shells. Such a salad is an excellent one to serve 
when dainty refreshments are desired or when something unusual 
is wanted for a iiice luncheon. 

Cut cantaloupes in half crosswise, and, using the French cutter, 
cut some of the meat into round balls. Dice the remainder and 
mix with any combination of fruit desired. Place this in the canta- 
loupe shells after cutting points in the top edge. Garnish with the 
balls cut from the cantaloupe and serve with any desired dressing. 

83. Plneapple-and-Nut Salad. — Because of its refreshing 
flavor, pineapple makes a delicious salad. It may be combined with 
various foods, but is very good when merely nuts and salad dress- 
ing are used, as in the accompanying recipe. 

Place slices of canned pineapple on salad plates garnished with 
lettuce leaves. Mix whipped cream with salad dressing until the 
dressing becomes stiff, and place a spoonful or two of this in the 
center of each slice of pineapple. Sprinkle generously with chopped 
nuts, English walnuts or pecans being preferable. 



HIGH-PROTEIN SALADS 

84. Salads that are made with cheese, eggs, fish, or meat may 
be classed as lilgli-protein salads, for, as has already been 
learned, these foods are characterized by the protein they contain. 
Of course, those made almost entirely of meat or fish are higher in 
this food substance than the others. However, the salads that con- 
tain a combination of cheese and fruit are comparatively high in 
protein, and at the same time they supply to the diet what is desii-able 
in the way of a fruit salad. 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



35 



85. Poinsettia Salad. — Cream cheese, such as Neufchatel or 
Philadelphia cream cheese, combines very well with some fruits and 




Fig. 11 

vegetables. It is used with pineapple and cherries in the preparation 
of poinsettia salad, which is illustrated in Fig. 11. As can be 
imagined, this makes a pretty decoration for a Christmas table or 
a salad to be served around holiday time. 

Poinsettia Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pkg. cream cheese Lettuce 

2 Tb. cream 4 maraschino cherries 
i tsp. salt Salad dressing 

6 rounds pineapple 
Mix the cream cheese with the cream and salt, and form this into 
small round balls with the fingers. Place the rounds of pineapple 
on salad plates garnished with lettuce, and put the cheese ball in the 
center of the pineapple. 
Cut the maraschino 
cherries in half, and then 
cut each half into nar- 
row strips that resemble 
petals of a flower. Place 
five or six of these over 
the top of the cream 
cheese with the points 
meeting in the center, as 
shown in the illustration. 
Serve with any desired 
dressing, but instead of adding the dressing to the salad put it in a 
mayonnaise bowl and allow each person at the table to add it. 




Fig. 12 



36 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



86. Peach-and-Cream-Clieese Salad. — An excellent way 
of using canned peaches is to combine them with cream cheese for a 
salad, as shown in Fig. 12. If a smaller salad is desired, half a 
peach may be used and the cheese placed on top of it. Firm yellow 
peaches are the best ones to use for this dish. 

Peach-and-Cream-Cheese Salad 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 Tb. cream Lettuce 

i tsp. salt Salad dressing 

1 pkg. cream cheese 8 halves of pecans or walnuts 

8 halves canned peaches 

Mix the cream and salt with the cheese and shape into balls. 
Place a ball between two peach halves, and press them together 
tightly. Place on garnished salad plates, pour salad dressing over 




Fig. 13 

the top, and garnish with two halves of the nuts. If desired, the 
nuts may be chopped and sprinkled over the top. 

87. Pear-and-Cheese Salad. — If other fruits are not in 
supply for use in salad and pears can be obtained, they may be 
utilized with cream cheese in a pleasing way, as Fig. 13 shows. 

Pear-and-Cheese Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 Tb. cream Lettuce 

i tsp. salt 4 halves English walnuts 

1 pkg. cream cheese Salad dressing 

8 halves canned pears 



a 16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



37 



Mix the cream and salt with the cheese and shape into balls. 
Place one-half of a pear with the hollow side up on a salad plate 




Fig. 14 

garnished with a lettuce leaf and the other half with the hollow side 
down beside it. Put a ball of the cheese in the hollow of the 
upturned half and press half an English walnut on top of that. Add 
the dressing and serve. French dressing is recommended for this 
salad, but some other salad dressing will answer. 

88. Green-Pepper-and-Clieese Salad. — In Fig. 14 is shown 
a vegetable-and-cheese combination in the form of a salad made of 
green pepper and cheese. To make this kind of salad, select firm 
green peppers, one being sufficient if a large one can be obtained. 
Season cream cheese well with paprika and a little additional salt 




Fig. 15 



if necessary. Cut the top from the pepper, clean out the inside, and 
pack tight with the cheese. Cut the filled pepper into thin slices, 



38 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



place two or three of these slices on a salad plate garnished with 
lettuce leaves, and serve with French dressing. 

89. Daisy Salad. — If an efifective, somewhat ornamental salad 
is desired, daisy salad, which is illustrated in Fig. 15, will prove 
satisfactory. As will be observed, this salad resembles a daisy. To 
make it, cut celery into strips about 2 inches long and trim one end 
of each round. These strips will serve to represent the daisy petals. 
Place them on salad plates garnished with lettuce, laying them so 
that they radiate from the center and their round ends are toward 
the outside of the plate. Then, for the center of the daisy effect, 
cut the yolks of hard-cooked eggs into halves and place one half, with 
the rounded side up, on the ends of the celery. Serve with French 
dressing. 

90. Humpty Dumpty Salad. — In Fig. 16 is shown an attrac- 
tive-appearing and extremely appetizing salad known as Humpty 




Fig. 16 

Dumpty salad. It consists of tomatoes and hard-cooked eggs gar- 
nished with pieces of stuffed olives, the manner in which the egg 
is placed in each portion accounting for its name. 

For this salad, select rather small, firm, ripe tomatoes. Peel them 
in the usual way, and when cutting out the stem remove a sufficient 
portion of the tomato to accommodate the end of an egg. Place 
each tomato with this part uppermost on a salad plate garnished 
with lettuce. Cut the hard-cooked eggs into halves, crosswise, 
remove the yolk and mash and season it with salt, pepper, and a little 
vinegar. Replace the yolk in the white and force this into the 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



39 



depression in the tomato. Place a stuflfed olive in the egg yolk and 
serve with French or other desired salad dressing. 

91. Water-Lily Salad. — A means of using eggs in salad with- 
out the addition of other foods is found in water-lily salad, which is 
illustrated in Fig. 17. If eggs are to be served for a luncheon or 
some other light meal, this method may add a little variety to the 
usual ways of serving them. 

Hard-cook one egg for each person to be served, remove the shells, 
and cut the eggs into halves, lengthwise. Remove the yolks, mash 
them, and season with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Cut the halves of 
egg whites into three or four pointed pieces, cutting from end to 




Fig. 17 

end of the half. Place these in a star shape on salad plates garnished 
with lettuce. Form the seasoned egg yolk into a ball and place it in 
the center over the ends of the egg whites. Serve with any desired 
salad dressing. 

92. Easter Salad. — Cream cheese makes an attractive salad 
when formed into egg-shaped balls and served in a nest of shredded 
lettuce. To prepare this salad, which is known as Easter salad, shred 
lettuce finely and place it in the shape of a nest on salad plates. 
Make tiny egg-shaped balls of cream cheese moistened with sufficient 
cream to handle. Place three or four of these in the inside of the 
lettuce. Dust with paprika and serve with any desired dressing. 

93. Salmon Salad. — Persons who are fond of salmon will find 
salmon salad a very agreeable dish. In addition to affording a 



40 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § Ifi 

means of varying the diet, this salad makes a comparatively cheap 

high-protein dish that is suitable for either supper or luncheon. 

Salmon Salad 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. salmon French dressing 
1 c. diced celery Salad dressing 
i c. diced Spanish onion Lettuce 

3 or 4 sweet pickles, chopped fine 

Look the salmon over carefully, removing any skin and bones. 
Break into medium-sized pieces and mix carefully with the celery, 
onion, and chopped pickles. Marinate this with the French dress- 
ing, taking care not to break up the salmon. Drain and serve with 
any desired salad dressing on salad plates garnished with lettuce. 

94. Tuna-Fish Salad. — ^A salad that is both attractive and 
appetizing can be made by using tuna fish as a foundation. This 
fish, which is grayish-white in color, can be obtained in cans like 
salmon. As it is not high in price, it gives the housewife another 
opportunity to provide her family with an inexpensive protein dish. 

Tuna-Fish Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. tuna fish Vinegar 

i c. diced celery Lettuce 

1 c. diced cucumber Mayonnaise 
Salt and pepper 

Open a can of tuna fish, measure 1 cupful, and place in a bowl. 
Dice the celery and cucumber, mix with the fish, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dilute some vinegar with water, using half as 
much water as vinegar, and sprinkle enough of this over the mixture 
to flavor it slightly. Allow the mixture to stand for about i hour 
in a refrigerator or some other cold place and just before serving 
pour off this liquid. Heap the salad on lettuce leaves, pour a spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise over each portion, and serve. 

95. Lobster or Crab Salad. — Lobster salad and crab salad 

are made in practically the same way, so that a recipe for one may 

be used for the other. The meat may be either fresh or canned, 

but, of course, fresh lobster or crab meat is more desirable if it can 

be obtained. 

Lobster or Crab Salad 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. lobster or crab meat Lettuce 

1 c. diced celery Mayonnaise 

French dressing 1 hard-cooked egg 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



41 



Chill lobster or crab meat and add the diced celery. Marinate 
with French dressing, and allow this mixture to stand for i hour or 
so before serving. Keep as cold as possible. Drain off the French 
dressing and heap the salad mixture on garnished salad plates or in 
a salad bowl garnished with lettuce. Pour mayonnaise dressing over 
the top, garnish with slices of hard-cooked egg, and serve. 

96. Shrimp Salad. — Shrimps may be used in an attractive 
salad in the manner shown in Fig. 18. Persons who care for sea 




Fig. 18 

food find this a rnost appetizing dish. Like lobster and crab, shrimp 
may be purchased in cans, and so it is possible to have this salad at 
any season. 

First marinate the shrimps with French dressing and then heap 
them on a plate garnished with lettuce leaves. Add thin slices of 
hard-cooked egg whites, and place a tender heart of celery in the 
center of the plate. If desired, some thin slices of celery may be 
marinated with the shrimp. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

97. dilcken Salad. — ^A favored means of using left-over 

chicken is to make chicken salad of it. It is well, however, if the 

chicken can be prepared especially for the salad and the nicer pieces 

of meat used. This is usually done when chicken salad is to be 

served at a party or special dinner. If the chicken is scarce, veal or 

pork may be substituted for one-third or one-fourth of the meat. 

Chicken Salad 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. chicken Lettuce 

1 c. diced celery Mayonnaise 

1 green pepper 1 pimiento 
French dressing 



42 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



Cut the meat from the bones of a chicken and dice it. Dice the 
celery, clean the green pepper, and cut it into small pieces. Mix 
the pepper and the celery with the chicken. Marinate with French 
dressing, chill, and allow to stand for^bout i hour. Drain the dress- 
ing from the salad mixture, serve in a garnished salad bowl or on 
garnished salad plates, pour mayonnaise over the top, and garnish 
with strips of pimiento. 

98. Stuffed Celery. — ^An appetizing relish may be prepared 
by stuffing celery in the manner shown in Fig. 19. Stuffed celery 
is not exactly a salad, but it may be used to take the place of a salad 
in a meal. It is often served with soup as an appetizer, but since 




Fig. 19 

it is high in food value it deserves a place of greater prominence 
in the meal. Any desirable cheese may be used to make the stuffing. 
Roquefort cheese is probably the most popular one, but many per- 
sons do not care for it. Cream cheese, ordinary American cheese, or 
even cottage cheese finely mashed may be used for this purpose. 

Put into a bowl the quantity of cheese needed to fill the number 
of stalks of celery desired, mash it finely with a fork, and mix it 
with cream or salad dressing until it is of a thick, creamy consis- 
tency. Season highly with a dash of red pepper and salt and, if 
desired, mix with very finely chopped nuts. Fill the hollows of the 
stems of celery with the mixture, sprinkle with paprika, and serve 
on a plate garnished with lettuce. 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 43 



SANDWICHES 



NATURE OF SANDWICHES 

99. When salads are mentioned, sandwlclies naturally come 
to the mind, for while they have many other uses, they are often 
served as an accompaniment to a salad. Sandwiches are generally 
thought of as two thin slices of bread put together with a filling, such 
as meat, cheese, fruit, etc. However, there are as many varieties 
of sandwiches as of salads and they serve a large number of pur- 
poses. For instance, they may be merely two pieces of buttered 
bread put together or they may be elaborate both as to shape and 
contents. In reality, many different things are considered as sand- 
wiches. Sometimes one piece of bread spread with a filling and 
usually decorated in some way is served with afternoon tea or a 
very light luncheon. Then, again, sandwiches often consist of three 
layers of bread instead of two, and for other kinds the bread is 
toasted instead of being used plain. 

As in the case of salads, the housewife must determine from their 
composition, the place that sandwiches should take in the meal, for 
their food value depends on what is used with the bread. A sand- 
wich that is high in food value may be used as the main dish in a 
light meal, while one that is comparatively low in this respect 
generally accompanies another dish, as, for instance, a salad, or is 
used to take the place of plain bread. 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF SANDWICH MAKING 

100. Bread for Sandwiches. — Although sandwiches vary 
greatly in both form and contents, bread or something that may be 
substituted for it always forms the foundation of this class of 
food. White bread is much employed for this purpose, but rye, 
graham, brown, or whole-wheat bread, or in fact any other desirable 
kind, may be used, depending on the nature of the sandwich or the 
kind preferred. Several matters concerning the bread that is used, 



44 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§ie 



however, should receive attention if successful sandwiches are to 
be the result. 

101. In the first place, the bread used should be at least 24 hours 
old, as difficulty will be experienced in cutting bread that is any 
fresher. Another requirement is that the bread should be firm and 
of a comparatively fine texture. The shape of the loaf must also 
be taken into consideration. As is easily understood, there will be 
a considerable waste of bread if a round sandwich is made from a 
square loaf or a square sandwich is cut from a round loaf. When 
round sandwiches are desired, it is advisable to bake the bread in 
round loaves, unless some good use can be made of the bread that 

is trimmed off in cutting 
the sandwiches. 

102. For sandwich 
making, bakers often sell 
special sandwich bread. 
Some persons prefer 
sandwiches made of 
such bread, but, as a rule, 
it will be found easier to 
use the ordinary bread 
baked by the baker or 
bread that is baked in 
the home for this pur- 
pose. \\'hen bread is 
being made for sandwiches, a good plan is to give the dough a little 
additional kneading and, toward the end of the kneading, to work 
in a small amount of flour, perhaps a little extra sugar, and, if 
desired, an egg. Then, if it is not allowed to rise as much as usual, 
it will make a bread that is finer in texture and easier to handle. 

103. Utensils for Sandvelch. Making. — Very few utensils 
are required for the making of sandwiches, but those which are used 
must be of the right kind if well-made sandwiches are desired. To 
cut the bread, a large sharp knife must be used, for, generally, the 
bread is required to be cut thin and this cannot be done successfully 
unless the knife is sufficiently sharp. In addition, a case knife or a 
small spatula is needed for the spreading of the bread. If sand- 
wiches in any quantity are to be spread with a filling besides butter, 
two case knives or a case knife and a spatula should be provided. 




Fig. 20 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



45 




Fig. 21 



104. Making Sandwiclies. — The point that should be 
remembered about sandwiches is that they should be as dainty as 
possible. Therefore, the 
bread should usually be 
cut thin and the crust 
should be removed. If 
a large number of sand- 
wiches are to be made, it 
is often a good idea to 
remove the crust from 
the loaf, as shown in 
Fig. 20, before slicing 
the bread. More fre- 
quently, however, the 
cutting is done first, as 
in Fig. 21. Then after 
the bread is spread, the crust is removed from a pile of slices at a 
time. A little difficulty will be experienced in making sandwiches 
unless care is taken in matching the slices. After being cut, they 
should be laid out in pairs with corresponding sides together, so that 
when they are spread two pieces that do not fit will not have to be 
put together. 

The plan of spreading the end of the loaf and then slicing ofif the 
piece that is spread is sometimes advocated, but it is not recom- 
mended, for it has no 
special advantage and 
then, too, the bread is 
difficult to handle after 
it has been spread. 

105. No matter 
what kind of filling is to 
be used for sandwiches, 
the slices are usually 
buttered before the fill- 
ing is applied. To make 
the butter soft enough to 
spread easily, it should 
be creamed with a spoon, as shown in Fig. 22, but it should never 
be melted. With the bread sliced and the butter creamed, one of a 




Fig. 22 



46 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



§16 



pair of slices should be spread with butter, as in Fig. 23, and the 
other with filling, and then the two slices should be put together. 

After a number of sand- 
wiches have been made, 
they should be placed on 
top of one another and, 
as shown in Fig. 24, the 
crusts should be cut 
from a small pile at one 
time. 

Sometimes, if sand- 
wiches are being made in 
quantity, the butter is 
worked into the filling 
instead of being spread 
on the bread. As this 
from the food value of the 




Fig. 23 

plan saves time and does not detract 



sandwich, it may be followed whenever it seems advisable. 

106. Variety can be obtained from time to time in the shapes 

of sandwiches by cutting the bread in diflferent ways. For instance, 
one time it may be cut into strips lengthwise, another time into 
halves crosswise, and again, diagonally, so as to form triangular 
pieces. To vary the 
sandwich filling, a let- 
tuce leaf may be placed 
on the buttered slice of 
the bread and the slice 
containing the filling put 
on top of this. Lettuce 
used in this way makes 
a delightful addition to 
cheese, meat, egg, or 
vegetable sandwiches. 

107. It is often 
necessary to make sand- 
wiches some time before 
they are to be served. In such an event, they should be kept 
moistened so that they will be fresh when they are served. To 
accomplish this, they may be wrapped first in oiled paper and then 




Fig. 24 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 47 

in a damp towel, or if oiled paper is not in supply, the towel alone 
will answer the purpose, provided it is not made too damp and a 
dry towel is wrapped on the outside. 



PREPARATION OF SANDWICHES 



BREAD-AND-BUTTER SANDWICHES 

108. Often it is desired to serve bread and butter with a certain 
dish and yet something more is wanted than just two pieces of bread 
spread with butter and put together. While bread-and-butter sand- 
wiches are probably the simplest kind that can be made, variety can 





■■■ 




^^pilH| 


^^^^^^pH^^?^ 


^^''jM^^&^gi^^'' ™ 




^H^^^^^^^ ^^l||fl||^^^^^^^^^| 


m "^ 


^^^ ' 


M 


^t^^ 


OX^ 


^H^^ 






""^^ j^^^it 


''"it 


""^'^1^??%^:?---— =j^^^bI^^ 




/^"^ -^^^^ 


ff^ 


^'®K^*"™'*^^^ 




C"^C *^ '^^Kk 


^1 


SIb/Jk 




%^?^^M^^ 




;^^pf 










^■. 


^^*--^^^;^~j^gpi^ 


j^ssw 


«*^^ 













Fig. 2S 

be obtained in them if the housewife will exercise a little ingenuity. 
Fig. 25 shows what can be done in the way of bread-and-butter 
sandwiches with very little effort, for the two plates on the left 
contain sandwiches made merely of bread and butter. 

109. Round Sandwiclies. — The round sandwiches on the 
rear left plate in Fig. 25 can be made of brown bread or of white 
bread, or both varieties may be served in the event that some one 
does not care for brown bread. To make these, cut slices of bread 
from a loaf and, by means of a round cutter, cut them round in 
shape. Out of the top slice of each sandwich, cut a round hole with 
a small round cutter or a thimble. After spreading both slices with 
butter and placing them together, cut a thick slice from a stuffed 
olive and insert this in the hole in the top slice. 



48 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

110. Ribbon Sandwicbes. — The sandwiches on the plate in 
front in Fig. 25 are known as ribbon sandwiches. To make these, 
cut white bread and graham bread in very thin slices, butter them, 
and then alternate a slice of white with a slice of graham until there 
are three or four layers. Place the pile under a weight until the 
butter becomes hard and then cut down in thin slices. The attrac- 
tive sandwiches here shown will be the result. 

111. Cbeckerboard Sandv^^icbes. — Another way of serving 
bread and butter is in the form of checkerboard sandwiches. These 
are no more difficult to make than the ribbon sandwiches, but the 
slices of the bread must be cut evenly and all must be of the same 
thickness. In addition, the bread should be firm and close-grained 
and the butter should be put on thickly enough to make the slices of 
bread stick together. Cut three slices each of graham bread and 
white bread i inch in thickness. Spread one side of each slice 
thickly with butter. Place a slice of graham between two slices of 
white bread and a slice of white between two slices of graham. Trim 
these piles evenly and cut them into ^-inch slices. Butter these slices ■ 
and put them together so that brown bread will alternate with white 
and white with brown. Place the slices under a weight in a cool 
place until the butter becomes perfectly hard. Then cut them into 
thin slices for serving and they will be found to resemble a checker- 
board. 



VEGETABLE SANDWICHES 

112. Certain vegetables may be used with bread and butter to 
make very appetizing sandwiches. The vegetables most often used 
for this purpose are lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, celery, and onions. 
Generally, when vegetables are to be used for sandwich filling, the 
sandwiches should be made immediately before they are to be 
served, as they are apt to become moist if they are allowed to stand 
very long. An exception to this is celery sandwiches, which are 
made in the form of rolls and which must stand piled close together 
for some time in order for the butter to become hard enough to stick 
them together. 

113. Lettuce Sandvi^icbes. — Cut white bread into slices about 
i inch thick and spread these thinly with butter. Place a leaf or 
two of tender lettuce between each two slices and spread with thick 



§16 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



49 



salad dressing. Put the slices of bread together, trim off the edges 
of the lettuce and the crusts if desired, and serve. 

114. Tomato Sand'wlclies. — Slice bread about ^ inch thick 
and spread the slices with butter. Peel firm red tomatoes and cut 
them into thin slices. Cover one slice of bread with a slice of tomato, 
spread this with thick salad dressing, and, if desired, place a lettuce 
leaf over this. Cover with a second slice of bread, trim the edges, 
and serve. 

115. Cucumber Sandwiclies. — Peel and slice into thin slices 
a medium-sized cucumber that does not contain large seeds. Place 
the slices in very cold water to make them crisp. Slice bread about 
J inch thick and spread the 
slices with butter. Place 
thin slices of cucumber on 
one piece, spread with thick 
salad dressing, and put a let- 
tuce leaf on top of this, if 
desired. Cover with the sec- 
ond slice of bread, trim the 
edges, and serve. 

116. Rolled Celery 

Sandwiclies. — Cut -J-inch 

slices from a comparatively 

fresh loaf of bread. Trim 

the crusts and spread with 

butter. Cut the stems of 

tender celery into pieces that 

are as long as the bread is wide. Place the celery on one edge of 

the bread, fill the center of the stem with salad dressing, and roll the 

celery into the bread like a jelly roll. Place a moist napkin in the 

bottom of a bread pan and stack the rolls in rows, with the loose 

edge down, so that they will stay rolled. When all have been placed 

in the pan, fold the edges of the napkin across the top and allow 

them to stand for a few hours before serving. This cannot be done 

with bread that is dry. If the sandwiches are to be served at once, 

the edges will have to be tied or fastened with toothpicks. 

In case it is desired not to use celery in rolled sandwiches, a filling 
bf cream cheese or jam may be added after the bread is buttered 
and each piece then rolled in the manner explained. An idea of 

Wl— C4-0 




Fig. 26 



50 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

how attractive rolled sandwiches are may be obtained from Fig. 26. 
When served in a decorated sandwich basket, as shown, these sand- 
wiches give a very dainty touch to a luncheon or a tea. 

117. Onion-and-Pepper Sandwiches. — Cut bread into 
slices about i inch thick and spread these with butter. Slice Spanish 
or Bermuda onions into thin slices and cut a green pepper into 
thin rings. Place a slice of the onion on one piece of buttered bread 
and on top of this put two or three rings of green pepper. If 
desired, spread with salad dressing, or merely season the onion with 
salt and pepper. Place the second slice of bread on top, trim the 
edges, and serve. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES 

118. Sandwiches that have fruit for their filling appeal to many 
persons. For the most part, dried fruits are used for this purpose 
and they usually require cooking. Another type of fruit sandwich 
is that which has jelly or marmalade for its filling. As fruit sand- 
wiches are sweet and not very hearty, they are much served for 
afternoon tea or to provide variety when another kind of sandwich is 
being served. 

119. Date Sandwiches. — To any one who desires a sweet 
sandwich, the date sandwich in the accompanying recipe will be 
found to be very agreeable. Not all sandwich fillings seem to be 
satisfactory with other bread than white, but the filling here given 
can be utilized with white, graham, or whole-wheat bread. 

Date Filling 
f c. dates ^ c. nut meats 

i lemon 

Wash the dates and remove the seeds. Steam them over hot water 
or in a double boiler until they are soft, and then mash them thor- 
oughly. Squeeze the juice from the lemon, grate the yellow part 
of the rind and mix with the juice, and add both to the steamed 
dates. Then add the nut meats chopped very fine. 

To make the sandwiches, cut thin slices of bread and spread one 
slice with butter and the corresponding slice with the date filling. 
Place the two together, trim the crusts if desired, and serve. 

120. Fruit Sandwiches. — The three fruits mentioned in the 
accompanying recipe may be used in equal proportions as here given, 
only two of them may be utilized, or the proportions may be changed 



§ 16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 51 

to suit the supply on hand. This sandwich may be made with white 
bread, brown bread, graham bread, or whole-wheat breao. 

Fruit Filling 

■J c. dates -J c. raisins 

I c. figs 1 orange 

Wash the dates, figs, and raisins, and remove the stones from the 
dates. Steam all together until they are soft, mash thoroughly, and 
add the juice and the grated rind of the orange. 

Cut thin slices of bread, spread one slice with butter, and spread 
the opposite slice with this filling. Place the two together, trim the 
edges if desired, and serve. 

121. Apricot Sandwiclies. — To people who are fond of apri- 
cots, sandwiches containing apricot filling are very delicious. If jelly 
or marmalade is plentiful, it may be used in place of the apricots to 
make the sandwich. 

Apricot Filling 
i c. dried apricots i tsp. cinnamon 
■J c. sugar 1 Tb. lemon juice 

Wash and soak the apricots, and when they are thoroughly 
softened cook them until tender in just enough water to keep them 
from burning. Put them through a sieve or a colander and add the 
sugar, cinnamon, and lemon juice to the pulp. Place over the fire 
and cook until the mixture becomes thick, stirring constantly to keep 
it from scorching. Set aside to cool. 

Cut bread into thin slices, butter one slice, and spread the other 
of each pair of slices with the apricot filling. Put each two slices 
together and trim the edges if desired. Serve. 

122. Jelly and Marmalade Sandwiclies. — Jelly and mar- 
malade always make acceptable filling for sandwiches, and as these 
foods are usually in supply sandwiches containing them require less 
trouble to prepare than do most sandwiches. Then, too, if two kinds 
of sandwiches are to be served for a tea or a little lunch, sandwiches 
of this kind are very nice for the second one. They are made in 
the usual way, but if the jelly or marmalade is very thin, it is an 
excellent plan to spread each slice of bread used for the sandwich 
thinly with butter so that the filling will not soak into the bread. 

Slices of Boston brown bread steamed in small round cans, such 
as baking-powder cans, and a filling of jelly or marmalade make 
dainty little sandwiches for afternoon tea. 



52 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 



HIGH-PROTEIN SANDWICHES 

123. When sandwiches of a substantial nature are desired, those 
in which high-protein foods are used as filHngs will be found very 
acceptable. Here considerable variety may be had, for there are a 
number of these foods that make excellent fillings. Some sand- 
wiches of this kind are suitable for serving with salads while others, 
such as those containing meat or chicken, are very satisfactory for 
picnics or light lunches. 

124. Jelly-and-Cream-Clieese Sandwiches. — A sandwich 
that is very dainty as well as unusually good is made by using 
both jelly and cream cheese for filling. Sandwiches of this kind 
are shown on the plate to the right in Fig. 25. If a red jelly, such 
as currant jelly, is used, the appearance of the sandwich will be 
better than if a light jelly or a very dark jelly is used. 

Cut the bread very thin and match three slices for the sandwich 
instead of two. Spread the first piece thinly with butter and spread 
the opposite side of the second piece with jelly. Place this on the 
buttered bread and spread the other side with cream cheese. Spread 
another piece with butter and place this on top of the cream cheese. 
Trim the edges if desired, and cut into narrow strips. Serve. 

125. Rye-Bread-and-Clieese Sandwiches. — Rye bread and 
cheese make a favored combination with many persons. Swiss 
cheese is an excellent kind to serve with rye bread, but the American- 
made Cheddar cheese does very nicely if the other cannot be 
procured. 

Cut rye bread into slices about i inch thick. Spread them very 
thinly with butter, and between each two slices place a thin slice of 
the cheese. Serve mustard with sandwiches of this kind for any one 
who may desire it. 

126. Cheese Sandwiches. — Cheese combined with pimiento, 
sweet pickles, olives, and nuts makes a filling that has an excellent 
flavor. Sandwiches containing this filling will be found to be very 
good for picnics or lunches. Their food value, which, of course, is 
high, depends somewhat on the amount of filling used. 

Cheese Filling 
i lb. cheese i c. English walnut meats 

1 pimiento -J doz. olives, cut from stones 

2 sweet pickles 



§16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 53 

Put the cheese through a grinder unless it is soft enough to mash. 
Chop the pimiento, pickles, nuts, and olives quite fine and add the 
cheese. Work together with a spoon. Cut bread into thin slices, 
spread one piece with butter, the other one with the cheese filling, 
place the two together, trim if desired, and serve. 

127. Cheese-and-Nut Sandwlclies. — Cream cheese is used 
in the accompanying recipe, but other cheese may be substituted for 
it if desired. Sandwiches containing this filling are high in both 
protein and fat, and may be served very nicely with a vegetable 
salad. 

Cheese-and-Nut Filling 
1 pkg. cream cheese -} c. English walnut meats 

4 Tb. salad dressing 

Mash the cheese with a spoon and add the salad dressing. Just 
before making the sandwiches, add the nut meats, which have been 
chopped very fine. If this mixture is put together and allowed to 
stand for any length of time before serving, the filling will grow 
dark. 

Cut bread thinly, butter one slice, place filling on the opposite 
slice, put together, trim if desired, and serve. 

128. Peanut-Butter Sandw^iclies. — Peanut butter alone 
makes a rather dry sandwich, as it has a peculiar consistency that 
makes it difficult to swallow without moistening. This condition can 
be overcome by adding a little salad dressing to the peanut butter. 

Place a few tablespoonfuls of peanut butter in a bowl and pour 
a sufficient amount of salad dressing into it to moisten it enough to 
spread. Season with salt. Cut slices of bread thin, spread one piece 
with butter, the opposite piece with peanut butter, place together, 
trim if desired, and serve. 

129. Hard-Cooked-Egg Sandwiches. — An excellent sand- 
wich filling can be made by seasoning hard-cooked eggs and com- 
bining them with vinegar. To make this filling, cook the desired 
number of eggs until they are hard. Remove them from the shells 
and put them through a sieve. Season well with salt and pepper 
and then add sufficient vinegar to make them of a good consistency 
to spread. Cut bread thin, spread one piece with butter, and the 
opposite piece with the egg mixture. Put them together, trim the 
edges if desired, and serve. 



54 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

130. Meat Sandwiches. — Cold cooked meat may be used in 
sandwiches in the usual way by putting thin slices between buttered 
bread, or it may be put through the grinder or chopped finely and 
then mixed with salad dressing until thin enough to spread. With 
the meat may also be chopped pickles, olives, a small amount of 
onion, green pepper, pimiento, or anything desired for flavoring. 
Left-over roast meat that will not slice very well and trimmings 
from ham may be utilized in this way. 

When a filling of chopped meat is to be used, slice bread thin, 
spread one slice with butter and the opposite slice with the meat 
filling. Put together, trim if desired, and serve. 

131. Cliickeii Sandwiclies. — Cold chicken sliced thinly, put 
between pieces of crisp toast, and spread v/ith salad dressing, makes 
a sandwich that is most delicious and offers a pleasant change from 
the usual plain-bread sandwich. Cut bread ^ inch thick and toast 
it a delicate brown on both sides. Spread thinly with butter when 
it comes from the toaster. Between each two pieces place thin slices 
of chicken. Spread the chicken with a small amount of salad dress- 
ing, place a lettuce leaf on top of this, and cover with a second piece 
of toast. Serve. 

132. Chicken-Salad Sandwiches. — \\"hen there is on hand 
only a small amount of chicken that is perhaps not in the right con- 
dition for slicing, it is a good plan to make a salad of it and use this 
for sandwich filling. If necessary, a little veal or pork may be used 
with the chicken. 

Chicken-Salad Filling 
1 c. cold meat 1 hard-cooked egg 

i c. chopped celery Salad dressing 

1 small onion 

Chop all the ingredients very fine, mix together, and season well 
with salt and pepper. Add sufficient salad dressing to moisten well. 
Cut bread thin and spread a slice with butter and another slice with 
the sandwich mixture. Place a lettuce leaf over this, put the two 
pieces of bread together, trim and serve. 



HOT SANDAVICHES 

133. All the sandwiches thus far discussed are served cold, but 
various hot sandwiches can also be made. As these generally have 
meat or a high-protein food for their filling, they may be used as 



§16 SALADS AND SANDWICHES 55 

the main dish in the meal in which they are served. Sandwiches of 
this kind are excellent for a light luncheon or for supper. 

134. Hot-Meat Sandwiches. — ^If both meat and gravy- 
remain from a roast, a very excellent luncheon dish may be made 
by slicing the meat thin, placing it on slices of bread, and pouring 
the gravy, which has been heated, over both the bread and meat. 
There may be a second layer of bread on top of the meat if desired. 

135. Hot Fried-Egg Sandwich.es. — ^A very good way in 
which to serve eggs is to saute them and then make sandwiches of 
them. Spread slices of bread thinly with butter. Break the desired 
number of eggs into a frying pan with melted butter or other fat, 
season with salt and pepper, and fry on one side. Then turn and fry 
on the other side until the yolk becomes quite hard. Place an egg on 
one slice of the buttered bread, place a second slice over this, and 
serve while hot. 

136. Ham-and-Egg: Sandwiches. — The combination of ham 
and eggs is always a good one, but it becomes especially palatable 
when used in a sandwich, as here explained. Slice boiled ham into 
thin slices and saute in hot fat for a few minutes. Then break into 
a bowl as many eggs as will be required, beat slightly, and pour over 
the slices of ham in the frying pan. When the mass has cooked 
well on one side, turn and cook on the opposite side. There should 
not be sufficient egg to make this very thick. Season well with salt 
and pepper and when the mixture is thoroughly cooked, cut it into 
pieces of a size to fit the bread used for the sandwiches. Cut the 
bread, butter it slightly, place a piece of the ham-and-egg mixture 
between each two slices of bread, and serve hot. If desired, toast 
may be used in place of bread and a more delicious sandwich will 
be the result. 

137. Club Sandwiches. — Nothing in the way of sandwiches 
is more delicious than club sandwiches if they are properly made. 
They involve a little more work than most sandwiches, but no diffi- 
culty will be experienced in making them if the directions here given 
are carefully followed. The ingredients necessary for sandwiches 
of this kind are bread, lettuce, salad dressing, bacon, and chicken. 
The quantity of each required will depend on whether a two- or a 
three-layer sandwich is made and the number of sandwiches to be 
served. 



56 SALADS AND SANDWICHES § 16 

Cut the bread into slices about J inch thick and cut each slice 
diagonally across to form two triangular pieces. Trim the crust and 
toast the bread on a toaster until it is a light brown on both sides 
and then butter slightly if desired. Slice chicken into thin slices. 
Broil strips of bacon until they are crisp. On a slice of toast, place 
a lettuce leaf and then a layer of sliced chicken, and spread over 
this a small quantity of salad dressing, preferably mayonnaise. On 
top of this, place strips of the broiled bacon and then a second slice 
of toast. If desired, repeat the first layer and place on top of it a 
third slice of toast. This should be served while the bacon is still 
hot. Thin slices of tomato may also be used in each layer of this 
sandwich if desired. 

138. Cheese Dreams. — With persons who are fond of melted 
cheese, a favorite kind of sandwich is that known as cheese dreams. 
These make a good dish for a Sunday evening supper or for an eve- 
ning lunch. 

Cut bread about J inch thick. Cut slices of cheese about half as 
thick, and between each two slices of bread place a slice of the 
cheese. Place these on a broiler, broil first on one side and then 
on the other until the cheese is thoroughly melted, or saute the sand- 
wiches in a frying pan with melted butter, first on one side and then 
on the other. Serve while hot. 



OPEN SANDWICHES 

139. If sandwiches that are entirely different and at the same 
time attractive are desired for an afternoon tea or to serve with a 
salad, open saiid.wich.es will undoubtedly find favor. Fig. 27 
illustrates several varieties of such sandwiches and shows how artis- 
tically they can be made. These are merely submitted as sugges- 
tions, but with a little ingenuity, the housewife may work out in 
designs any ideas she may have. To make such sandwiches attrac- 
tive, fancy cutters of various shapes will be found helpful. As here 
shown, round, diamond-shaped, crescent-shaped, triangular, and 
star-shaped cutters have been used. 

140. The most suitable materials for open sandwiches include 
cream cheese, jam, stuffed olives, chopped parsley, hard-cooked eggs 
with the yolks or whites forced through a ricer, pimiento cut into 
attractive shapes, and any other material that will add either fiavor 



!1« 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



57 



or color. Either white or brown bread may be used. After cutting 
the bread in the preferred shapes, spread first with butter, if desired, 
and then with cream cheese, jam, or jelly. With this done, decorate 
the sandwiches in any desired way. Slices of stuffed olives are 




Fig. 27 

placed in the center of several here shown and strips or small piece& 
of pimiento are used for much of the decoration. On those that 
have jam or jelly for their foundation, cream cheese put through a 
pastry tube forms the decoration. 

141. If an accompaniment for a salad is desired and time will 
not permit the making of open sandwiches, small crisp crackers, 
decorated with cream cheese, as shown in Fig. 28, will be a very 
good substitute. These are excellent with a vegetable or a fruit 




Fig. 28 



salad; also, when served after the dessert they make a good final 
course to a meal. 

To prepare them, add cream to cream cheese until it is thin enough 
to be forced through a pastry bag. Using the rosette tube in the bag. 



58 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

make a single rosette in the center of each wafer. Dust with paprika 
and serve. 

142. Canapes. — ^Although differing somewhat from the open 
sandwiches that have been described, canapes are usually placed 
under this head. Canapes are small pieces of bread toasted or sauted 
in butter and then spread with some highly seasoned material, such 
as caviar, anchovy paste, well-seasoned smoked or canned salmon, 
or a vegetable mixture. They are served either hot or cold as an 
appetizer or as a first course for lunch or dinner. 

To make canapes, toast or saute slices of bread and cut them into 
any shape desired. Cover each piece with a thin layer of the material 
to be used and then decorate in any of the ways shown in Fig. 27 or 
in any other manner. Sometimes a thin layer of tomato is used, but 
often just a border of some material of contrasting color, such as 
the yolk of egg forced through a ricer, finely chopped parsley, a 
thin strip of pimiento, etc., is placed around the edge. 



SALADS AND SANDWICHES 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Discuss the importance of salads and their value in the diet. 

(2) In planning meals to include salads, what rules should be observed in 
order to make the meals balance properly? 

(3) Of what value to the salads are the accompaniments often served with 
them? 

(4) What ingredients used in salads make them satisfactory as high- 
protein salads? 

(5) How is fat usually supplied in making salads? 

(6) What salad ingredients are of the most value for supplying mineral 
salts ? 

(7) To what extent are vegetables and fruits combined in making salads? 

(8) Of what value are salads in the use of left-overs? 

(9) (a) What is meant by garnishing salads? (6) How may coarse 
lettuce be used to advantage for garnish? 

(10) (o) Describe the best quality of olive oil. (&) What other kinds of 
oils may be used as salad oils ? 

(11) (a) What ingredients beside oil are included in the making of the 
various kinds of salad dressings? (6) What is the value of each? 

(12) Describe the ideal condition of ingredients used for salads. 

(13) How may salad ingredients be freshened if they have become wilted? 

(14) Describe the cleaning of lettuce for salad. 

(15) (o) When may a salad serve as a dessert? (6) In making a salad 
that contains nuts, when should they be added? 

(16) (a) Tell how and why marinating is done. (6) What kind of salads 
should always be marinated? 

(17) At what time during a meal is the salad served when it is used as a 

separate course? 

§16 



2 SALADS AND SANDWICHES §16 

(18) (a) Give several points that must be observed if mayonnaise dressing 
is to be successfully made. (6) What utensil is best for the cooking of boiled 
salad dressing? Tell why. 

(19) (a) Describe the bread that may be used to best advantage for sand- 
wiches. (6) Into what shapes may sandwiches be cut so that there will be 
no waste of bread? 

(20) (a) How should butter be prepared for spreading sandwiches? 
(&) How may sandwiches be kept moist when they are prepared some time 
before they are to be served? 

ADDITIONAL WORK 

Give a recipe for an original salad in which at least one ingredient is a 
left-over. 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



THE DESSERT IIST THE MEAL 



GENERAL DISCUSSION 

1. A dessert always consists of sweet food of some kind, and 
in the usual meal it is served as the last course. Sometimes, espe- 
cially in more elaborate meals, another course, such as cheese and 
coffee, may follow, but ordinarily the dessert is the last food that 
is served. 

The eating of something sweet after the heavy course of a meal 
has undoubtedly become a habit with almost every person. At any 
rate, a dinner in which a dessert is not included generally leaves one 
unsatisfied and gives the feeling that the meal has not been properly 
completed. Some housewives, however, make the mistake of serving 
a heavy dessert after a large meal, with the result that those served 
leave the table feeling they have had too much to eat. If this occurs, 
the same combination of food should be avoided another time and a 
simple dessert used to follow a dinner that is already sufficiently 
heavy. 

2. There is nothing fixed about the dessert course of a meal. It 
may be very simple or it may be as complicated and elaborate as 
desired. To make an elaborate dessert usually requires a good deal 
of time, and unless time and care can be devoted to such a dessert it 
should not be attempted. However, whether a dessert is simple or 
elaborate, it should always be made sufficiently attractive to appeal 
to an appetite that is already almost satisfied. Besides providing a 
chance to end a meal in an attractive and appetizing way, it offers 
a splendid opportunity to carry out a color scheme that may be 
adopted for a meal. Of course, this is seldom done, except for a 

COPYRIOHTSD nr INTSRNATtONAL EDUCATIONAIt PUBLIGHINQ COMPANY. ALL RIOHTB RESERVED 

817 



2 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

party or a company meal, for a color scheme has no particular value 
other than to appeal to the esthetic sense. 

3. The cost of desserts is also a matter that may be varied. For 
instance, it may be low, as in plain rice pudding, which contains 
merely rice and milk, or it may be high, as in such concoctions as 
mousse or parfait, which may contain cream, eggs, gelatine, and 
fruit. It is possible then, with correct planning, to make the price 
of the dessert equalize the cost of the meal. For example, if the 
previous courses have contained expensive foods, the dessert should 
be an economical one, whereas an expensive one is permissible 
either when an elaborate meal is desired or when the cheapness of 
the food served before the dessert warrants greater expense in the 
final dish. 

4. The fact that desserts are often a means of economically 
utilizing left-over foods should not be overlooked. A famous cook- 
ing expert is responsible for the statement that any edible left-over 
may be utilized in the making of soup, salad, or dessert. This is an 
important truth to keep in mind, for, with the exception of a knowl- 
edge of the correct purchase and cooking of foods, nothing makes so 
much for economy in cookerj- as the economical use of left-overs. 

5. Desserts are really of two kinds : those which are heavy, such 
as hot puddings and pastrj-, and those which are light or of a less 
substantial nature, such as gelatine, custards, ices, etc. In general, 
light desserts are either frozen or allowed to cool before they are 
used and consequently may be made some time before the serving of 
the meal. It is with desserts of this kind that this Section deals, the 
heavier desserts being discussed elsewhere. 



COMPOSITION AND FOOD VALUE OF DESSERTS 

6. Attention should be paid to the composition and food value 
of desserts in order that the meals in which they are served may be 
properly balanced. For instance, when a housewife understands 
the value of the ingredients used in the preparation of a dessert, she 
will be able to determine the kind of dessert necessary to supply 
what is lacking in the meal. Of course, if she first decides on a 
particular dessert that she wants to serve, it will be necessan,- for her 
to plan the other dishes accordingly. This, however, is not the 



§17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 3 

logical way in which to plan meals. It is much more reasonable to 
have the dessert supply anything that the meal may lack in the way 
of food constituents. 

In considering the food value of desserts, it should be remembered 
that they are just as valuable as the ingredients they contain. The 
ingredients in which this class of foods is highest are carbohydrate 
in the form of starch or sugar or both, protein, especially when eggs 
in any quantity are used, and fat. 

7. Carbohydrate in Desserts. — As a rule, the carbohydrate 
in desserts is obtained from two sources. It is furnished by the 
sugar, honey, or other sweetening that is added to the mixture, or it 
is in the form of starch added to thicken, as in the case of corn 
starch, or material actually used as the basis of the dessert itself, 
such as rice, tapioca, bread, etc. These ingredients are, of course, 
easily digested if they are properly cooked. On the whole, desserts 
can therefore be regarded as high-carbohydrate foods. 

8. Protein in Desserts. — Protein is usually supplied in des- 
serts by means of eggs and milk. Custard made almost exclusively 
of these two foods is sufficiently high in protein to be taken into 
account in the planning of the main dish for the meal. Because of 
the presence of this food substance in many desserts, proper cooking 
is a matter to which attention must be given, for it makes for diges- 
tibility as well as consistency. Cream added to desserts also supplies 
a little protein. If wheat flour is used, it adds a small amount of 
protein in the form of gluten. Most of the starchy preparations, 
such as tapioca, rice, corn starch, etc., however, are almost entirely 
devoid of protein material. Gelatine desserts are sometimes thought 
to be high-protein foods, but, as is explained elsewhere, gelatine 
is not regarded as true protein. If such desserts are to contain pro- 
tein, it must come from some other source. 

9. Fat in Desserts. — Fat is usually added to desserts in the 
form of cream. Sometimes, a little butter is used in the making of 
a dessert, but for the most part the chief source of fat in desserts 
is the plain or whipped cream that is added to them or served with 
them. 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 



PRINCIPLES OF DESSERT MAKING 

10. Attractiveness of Desserts. — ^Attractiveness, as has 
been mentioned, is essential in a dessert if it is to appeal to an appe- 
tite that may be nearly satisfied by the time the dessert course is 
reached. To render dessert attractive, it should be carefully made 
and artistically garnished and served. It may be made to appeal 
through a sense of beautiful proportion, an attractive color combi- 
nation, or an attractive or artistic preparation. Because sweets are 
liked by most persons, it is seldom difficult to prepare attractive 
desserts. Indeed, the housewife who fails in this respect may be 
said to be unsuccessful in the easiest part of cookery. 

11. Economical Use of Ingredients. — The ingredients 
required for dessert making are usually expensive ones, although 
there are some marked exceptions to this rule. In view of this fact, 
the housewife should strive to use economically the various ingre- 
dients she purchases. For instance, the first strawberries, which, 
because of their scarcity, are much more expensive than the later 
ones, may be made to go much further if they are used in short- 
cake than if they are served as plain fruit. In making a fruit gela- 
tine, apples and bananas, while they may not be so attractive as 
canned pineapple and maraschino cherries, are much cheaper and 
may be used for a considerable portion of the fruit that is put into 
the gelatine. Then, too, it is well to remember that cream goes much 
further with desserts when it is whipped than when it is served plain. 

12. Applying Cookery Rules to Desserts. — If the best 
results in dessert making are to be obtained, the rules that govern 
the cooking of various ingredients in other dishes should be observed. 
For instance, eggs should not be cooked at a higher temperature in 
making desserts than when they are being poached. Then, again, 
starchy materials that are used to thicken desserts or that form a 
basis for these dishes must be thoroughly cooked in order to be 
agreeable and digestible. Therefore, to put both starchy materials 
and eggs into a dessert at the same time and give them the same 
amount of cooking at the same temperature, is, as the woman who 
understands cookery knows, not only a very poor plan, but a possible 
means of ruining good material. Another waste of good material 
results when a custard is so prepared that it is half water or when 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 5 

a rice or a bread pudding floats in liquid that was never intended to 
be served with it. Again, nothing is less tasty than a corn-starch 
pudding or a blanc mange in which the starch has not been thoroughly- 
cooked or a tapioca pudding in which the centers of the tapioca are 
hard and uncooked. Such mistakes as these, however, can be 
avoided if the housewife will apply to desserts the principles she 
has learned in other parts of cookery, for knowledge coupled with 
care in preparation is the keynote of successful dessert making. 

The cookery methods usually applied in the preparation of des- 
serts are boiling, steaming, dry steaming, and baking. As these 
methods are explained in Essentials of Cookery, Part 1, and are used 
constantly in the preparation of the majority of dishes served in a 
meal, they should by this time be so well understood that practically 
no difficulty will be experienced in applying them to desserts. 



COLD DESSERTS AND THEIR PREPARATION 



SAUCES AND "VTHIPPBD CREAM 

13. Sauces. — Many cold desserts may be served without any 
accompaniments, but very often they are much improved by the addi- 
tion of a sauce of some kind. For instance, when a custard or a blanc 
mange is very thick and heavy, it can be made more agreeable to the 
taste if it is served with a sauce of some description. Several 
recipes for sauces that may be used with any cold dessert in need 
of an accompaniment are here given, so that the housewife will not 
be at a loss when she desires to serve a sauce with a dessert she 
has made. 

14. The sauce to use depends on the dessert that it is to accom- 
pany. The custard sauce here given could be used, for example, 
with plain corn-starch mixtures that do not contain eggs or with 
other desserts of this nature. It is also very satisfactory with choco- 
late or rather highly flavored desserts. On the other hand, the 
chocolate sauce may be served with custard mixtures or desserts 
that require additional flavor. The fruit sauce, in which may be 
utilized any left-over juice from canned or stewed fruit, may be 
served with any dessert with which it seems to blend well. 

v/i-c*-* 



6 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

CusTAEj Sauce 

1 c. milk Few grains of salt 

2 Tb. sugar 1 egg 

i Tb. corn starch i tsp. vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving enough to moisten the 
corn starch. Mix the sugar, corn starch, and salt, and moisten with 
the cold milk. Add this to the hot milk. Stir until thick and cook 
for about 15 minutes. Beat the egg, add this to the mixture, and 
continue cooking until the egg has thickened. Add the vanilla, cool, 
and serve. 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 sq. chocolate Few grains of salt 

1 c. milk f Tb. corn starch 

4 Tb. sugar | tsp. vanilla 

Melt the chocolate over the fire, add half the milk, and cook 
together for a minute or two. Add the sugar and salt to the com 
starch, and moisten with the remainder of the milk. Pour this into 
the chocolate and milk and cook until thickened. Place in a double 
boiler and cook for 10 or 15 minutes. Add the vanilla and serve. 

Fruit Sauce 

1 Tb. com starch Few grains of salt 

Sugar 1 c. fruit juice 

Moisten the corn starch, sugar, and salt with the fruit juice, and 
cook together until the corn starch has thickened the mixture. Place 
in a double boiler and cook for 10 or 15 minutes. The amount of 
sugar must be gauged by the kind of fruit juice used. If it is very- 
sour, a greater quantity of sugar will be needed. Cool and serve. 

Butterscotch Sauce 
1 J c. brown sugar 4 Tb. butter 

f c. corn sirup | c. cream 

Boil sugar, sirup, and butter until the mixture reaches 230° F. or 
until it will form a very soft ball when tested in cold water. Remove 
from the fire and allow it to cool a little ; then beat the cream into it. 

Pudge Sauce 
1 c. sugar 1 Tb. butter 

i c. water 4 tsp. vanilla 

1 sq. chocolate 

Mix together the sugar, water, and melted chocolate. Boil the mix- 
ture for 5 minutes. Cool it slightly, then add the butter and vanilla. 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 7 

15. Whipped Cream. — Whipped cream is frequently served 
with cold desserts in place of a sauce or as a garnish. If cream is 
too thin to whip, it will have to be served plain, but it is an economy 
to whip it, for whipped cream goes much further. To make whip- 
ping possible, the cream must have a comparatively high percentage 
of fat. The higher the percentage of fat, however, the more expen- 
sive will be the cream. 

16. One of the requirements of successfully whipped cream, 
especially in summer, is that it be as cold as possible. Warm cream 
does not whip nearly so readily as cold. If it is necessary to whip 
cream in warm weather or in a warm place, the bowl containing the 
cream may be packed in a larger one containing ice and salt and 
allowed to stand for some time before the whipping is begun. 

17. A bowl-shaped utensil with a round bottom is the best to use 
for whipping cream. Either an egg whip or a rotary beater may be 
used to do the beating, which should be done rapidly. If the cream 
does not show signs of whipping within a reasonable time, the result 
is likely to be the formation of little globules of butter. Cream that 
whips properly will become stiff and light in a short time. After 
cream has been whipped till stiff, it should be sweetened slightly with 
sugar and flavored with vanilla or any other desirable flavoring. 



CUSTARD DESSERTS 



PRINCIPI/ES OP CUSTARD MAKING 

18. Many of the desserts that are served cold come under the 
head of custards. These are dishes high in protein and consist of 
two varieties: those thickened entirely by eggs and known as true 
custards and those in which a starchy material is used for part of 
the thickening. They may be cooked by steaming, dry steaming, or 
baking. 

19. In true custards there must be a sufficient number of eggs 
to thicken the desired amount of milk, for nothing else produces 
thickening. To these two ingredients may be added sweetening in 
the form of sugar, sirup, honey, etc. and flavoring of any desirable 
kind. The plain custard thus produced makes an excellent dessert 
and one that is easily digested. In fact, it can be digested with such 



8 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

ease that it is used perhaps more frequently in the diets of children 
and invalids than any other single dessert. For instance, when it is 
necessary that eggs and milk be taken in the diet, they usually become 
monotonous after a time, but a little variety may be added to the 
diet by serving them in the form of custard. While this is an expen- 
sive dessert when eggs are high in price, its value is such that it 
should be prepared frequently for children in spite of its cost. 

20. Although custards are considered to decrease in quality as 
fewer eggs are used and starch in some form is added for thicken- 
ing, many excellent custard desserts are made in this way. Then, 
too, plain custard is often utilized in the making of desserts, such 
as tapioca, rice, and bread puddings. In such an event, fewer eggs 
are used and the starchy material is depended on for a certain 
amount of the thickening. Because the starchy foods used are gener- 
ally cheaper than eggs, custard desserts that rely partly on starch for 
their thickening are more economical than those thickened entirely 
by eggs. They are also different in composition and texture, being 
lower in protein because of a smaller proportion of eggs and higher 
in carbohydrate because of additional starch; nevertheless, they are 
delicious desserts and find much favor. 

21. For its thickness, or solidity, a custard depends largely on 
the thickening property of the protein material in the eggs. Here, 
again, as in the preparation of other foods, only a certain proportion 
of milk and eggs will thicken, or solidify, upon being cooked. In 
general, the correct proportion for a plain custard is i egg to i cupful 
of milk. So important is this proportion that it should be memo- 
rized. Before the eggs are added to the milk, they are, of course, 
beaten, but their beating is a matter of little consequence, for they 
are used merely to supply thickening and give richness and not to 
produce lightness. Therefore, they need only be mixed well and 
beaten slightly, as any increase in the amount of the beating adds 
nothing. 

The sweetening and flavoring used in custards should be in suffi- 
cient quantity to suit the tastes of those who are to eat the dessert. 
However, the usual proportion of sugar is i tablespoonful to i egg 
and I cupful of milk. A tiny pinch of salt added to a mixture of this 
kind always improves its flavor and should never be omitted. 

Because of the various ways of making custards, they differ some- 
what when they are done. They may be thin enough to pour or 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



they may be set and so thick that they can be cut. The consistency 
of the finished product depends, of course, on the proportion of the 
ingredients used and the method of cookery adopted. 



RECIPES FOR OUSTARDS AND REIiATED DESSERTS 

22. Baked Custard. — Practically no skill is required in the 
preparation of baked custard, but care must be taken during the 
baking in order that the right temperature be applied for the proper 
length of time. Custard of this kind is quickly made and finds favor 
with most persons. It 
may be baked in indi- 
vidual baking dishes and 
then served in these or 
it may be cooked in a 
large baking dish and 
served either before or 
after it is placed on the 
table. Individual baking 
dishes are perhaps more 
satisfactory, for, as there 
is a smaller amount of 
material, the heat can 
penetrate more quickly 
and evenly to the center. 
Whatever kind of dish is 
used, however, should be 
placed in a pan of warm 
water, so that the cusr 
tard will bake evenly. The water in the pan should not boil, as this 
tends to make the custard whey, or separate. 

23. Several -tests oan be applied to custard to determine whether 
it is sufficiently baked. As the heat penetrates to the center last, this 
part is the last to cook and it is therefore the place where the testing 
should be done. One test consists in touching the center with the 
tip of the finger to find out whether it is firm or not. A more com- 
mon test, however, is shown in Fig. 1. To perform this test, the 
blade of a silver knife is inserted in the center, as illustrated. If 
the blade comes out clean, it may be known that the custard is suffi- 
ciently baked, but if the mixture sticks to the knife, the custard 




Fig. 1 



10 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

requires more baking. Before the knife blade is inserted, however, 
the skin that covers the custard must be broken ; if this is not done, 
the skin is sure to cHng to the knife. 

24. The chief requirement of a successful custard is that its 
texture be right, and the temperature at which the baking is done is 
largely responsible for this point. Too high a temperature or too 
long cooking will cause the custard to curdle and leave the edges full 
of holes. A smoother texture may be obtained if egg yolks alone 
instead of the yolks and whites are used to thicken the custard. The 
proportions given in the accompanying recipe make a custard of very 
good texture, but if a greater proportion of eggs is used, the result 
will be a firmer, harder custard. 

Baked Custard 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 eggs 2 c. milk 

2 Tb. sugar J tsp. vanilla 

Pinch of salt 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the sugar and salt, and continue beat- 
ing while adding the milk. Add the vanilla. Pour into a buttered 
baking dish or individual baking dishes, place in a moderately hot 
oven in a pan of warm water, and bake until the custard is set, test- 
ing with the finger or a silver knife. Remove from the heat, cool 
at once, and serve cold. 

25. Caramel Custard. — Caramel is nothing more nor less than 
browned sugar, but if the process of caramelizing the sugar is per- 
formed carefully, the result will be a delicious flavoring material 
that may be used for desserts of any kind or for making sauces to 
serve with desserts. When the sugar is browned to make caramel, 
a certain amount of sweetness is lost, so that more sugar must be 
used than would ordinarily be needed to sweeten the same amount 
of custard. 

To make the caramel required in the accompanying recipe, place 
^ cupful of sugar in a small saucepan over the fire. Allow the sugar 
to melt slowly, stirring it as little as possible. When it has completely 
melted and no more of it remains white, add J cupful of boiling 
water. Allow this to cook until a heavy sirup is formed. Care must 
be taken not to bum the sugar black, for if this is done, the custard, 
or whatever is flavored with the caramel, will have a burnt taste. 
The color should be a clear reddish-brown. Maple sirup may be 
used in the same way as caramel by cooking it until it becomes thick. 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



11 



Caramel Custard 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2^ c. milk Pinch of salt 

Caramel Few drops of vanilla 

3 eggs 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, add the caramel to the milk, and 
then cool the mixture. Beat the eggs and add them to the caramel 
and milk. Add the salt and vanilla. Pour the custard into buttered 
baking dishes, set in a pan of warm water, and bake in a moderate 
oven until firm. Cool and serve. 

26. Soft Custard. — The custard given in the accompanying 
recipe is commonly known as boiled custard, but this is in no sense 
a correct name, for the custard at no time reaches the boiling point. 
The common method of 
preparation is dry steam- 
ing, for which the double 
boiler is an essential 
utensil. If one is not in 
supply, however, a 
saucepan placed in a 
larger pan of water will 
serve the purpose. The 
custard should be stirred 
continuously during its 
cooking. Then it will 
not set nor thicken as 
does baked custard, even 
though the proportion of 
eggs and milk may be 
higher. 

The test for soft custard, which is exactly opposite from that for 
baked custard, is shown in Fig. 2. As soon as the custard mixture 
lightly coats a spoon it is done. Then it should be removed from 
the fire and the inner part of the double boiler removed from 
the outer part to avoid the application of any more heat. If too 
much heat has been applied or the custard has been cooked too long, 
the result will be a curdled mass. As soon as this is observed, the 
custard should be removed from the hot water, placed at once into a 
pan of cold water, and beaten vigorously with a rotary egg beater. 
To improve it further, it may be poured through a fine wire sieve or 




Fig. 2 



12 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

strainer. Unless the curding has gone too far or the egg has been 
cooked a great deal too long, this treatment will produce a very 
decided improvement in the custard and possibly bring it to a normal 
condition. 

Soft Custasd 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk i tsp. salt 

3 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

i c. sugar ^ tsp. lemon extract 

Heat the milk in the inner pan of a double boiler. Separate the 
eggs. Beat the yolks slightly, and to them add the sugar and salt. 
Dilute with a little of the hot milk. Blend well together and pour 
into the hot milk. Stir constantly until the mixture coats a spoon, 
and then remove from the fire. Beat the egg whites until they are 
stiff but not dry, and fold them into the mixture. Flavor with the 
vanilla and lemon extract, cool, and serve. 

To obtain variety in soft custards, chocolate, caramel, maple, 
and other flavors may be used in their preparation in the same way 
as for baked custards. 

27. French. Cream. — ^A custard dessert that is easily made and 

that most persons are fond of is French cream. As will be noted 

in the accompanying recipe, only one egg is used and corn starch is 

supplied for the remainder of the thickening. It is always necessary 

to salt mixtures containing starch, as any starchy food has a raw 

taste when it is prepared without salt. 

French Cream 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk 1 egg 

1 Tb. corn starch J tsp. vanilla 

i c. sugar i tsp. lemon extract 

I tsp. salt 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving a sufficient amount to 
moisten the corn starch. Mix the corn starch with the sugar and 
salt, moisten with the cold milk, and add to the milk in the double 
boiler when it has heated. Stir until the mixture has thickened very 
slightly. Cook in the double boiler for 20 or 30 minutes. Beat the 
egg, add a small amount of the hot mixture to the beaten egg, and 
then pour this into the thickened milk, stirring rapidly to keep the 
egg from curding. Cook for a minute or two, remove from the fire, 
add the flavoring, cool, and serve. 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 13 

28. Floating Island. — The dessert known as Floating Island 
does not differ very much from soft custard. It is slightly thicker 
and contains whipped cream, which is used for the island. If 
whipped cream cannot be obtained, however, the white of egg may 
be substituted for it. In such an event, the white of the egg included 
in the recipe may be retained when the custard is made and used 
on top by sweetening it w'th sugar or perhaps by beating into it a 
small amount of pink jelly. 

Floating Island 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk 1 egg 

14 Tb. corn starch i tsp. vanilla 

I c. sugar Whipped cream 

I tsp. salt 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, retaining enough to moisten the 
corn starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt, and moisten with 
the cold milk. Add this to the heated milk in the double boiler, stir 
until the mixture has thickened, and then cook for 20 to 30 minutes. 
Beat the egg, add to it a spoonful of the hot mixture, and then pour 
this into the double boiler, stirring to prevent the curding of the 
egg. Cook for a minute or two, or until the egg has had time to 
thicken, remove from the heat, and add the vanilla. When cold, 
serve in individual dishes or glasses with a spoonful of whipped 
cream on top of each portion. 

29. Corn-Starch. Custard. — A dessert that is a little heavier 
than either French cream or Floating Island but not heavy enough 
to be molded is the corn-starch custard given in the accompanying 
recipe. If desired, it may be served with sauce, plain cream, or 
whipped cream, or it may be eaten without any of these. 

Corn-Starch Custard 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. corn starch 1 egg 

i c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving enough to moisten the 
corn starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt, and moisten with 
the cold milk. Add this to the hot milk, and stir until the mixture 
has thickened. Cook for 20 or 30 minutes. Beat the egg, add a 
spoonful of the hot mixture to the egg, pour this into the double 



14 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § Vi 

boiler, and cook for a minute or two, or until the egg has thickened. 
Remove from the fire, add the vanilla, cool, and serve. 

30. Coconut-Corn-Starch. Custard. — The flavor of coconut 
in custard is agreeable, but the toughness of this ingredient with a 
soft custard is not always acceptable. In the preparation of the 
custard given in the accompanying recipe, the idea is to obtain the 
flavor without the use of the coconut in the custard. 

Coconut-Corn-Stakch Custasd 

(SufScient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. corn starch 1 egg 

i c. coconut Vanilla 

i c. sugar 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, retaining enough of it to moisten 
the corn starch. Put the coconut into the milk while it is hot, and 
allow it to remain for 5 or 10 minutes after the milk has become 
heated. Then strain through a ricer or a strainer to remove all 
the liquid possible, and return the milk to the double boiler. Mix 
the sugar and salt with the com starch and moisten with the cold 
milk. Add this to the hot milk and cook for 20 or 30 minutes after 
it has thickened. Beat the egg and add a little of the hot material 
to it ; then pour it into the double boiler and cook for a minute or two, 
or until the egg has thickened. Flavor with a few drops of vanilla, 
remove from the fire, cool, and serve. 

31. Snow Pudding. — An excellent custard dessert called snow 
pudding can be made by following the directions here given. This 
pudding is especially attractive when served with chocolate sauce, as 
the sauce makes an agreeable contrast in color as well as in flavor. 
Other sauces, however, may be used with this dessert if desired. 
The yolks of the eggs may be made into a custard sauce and served 
with it, or a fruit sauce may be used. 

Snow Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk I tsp. salt 

2 Tb. corn starch 2 egg whites 
i c. sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving a sufficient amount to 
moisten the corn starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt and 
moisten with the cold milk. Add this to the hot milk and stir con- 
tinuously until the corn starch thickens the milk. Cook for 20 to 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



15 



30 minutes and remove from the fire. Beat the egg whites until 
they are stiff and fold them into this mixture. Add the vanilla, pour 
into a serving dish or individual dishes, cool, and serve with choco- 
late or any desired sauce. 

32. Plain Blanc Mange. — A blanc mange is usually a mixture 
thickened to such an extent with starchy material that it may be 
turned out of a mold or cut into cubes. The plain blanc mange given 
here requires a well-flavored sauce to relieve its bland taste. 

Plain Blanc Mange 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

f c. corn starch ^ tsp. vanilla 

^ c. sugar 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, reserving enough to moisten the 
corn starch. Mix the corn starch, sugar, and salt and moisten with 




Fig. 3 

the cold milk. Pour into the hot milk and stir until the corn starch 
has thickened. Allow this to cook for 30 to 35 minutes, beat to keep 
smooth, and then remove from the fire and add the vanilla. Moisten 
cups or molds with cold water and fill with the blanc mange. Cool, 
turn out of the molds, and serve with any desired sauce. 

33. Chocolate Blanc Mange. — Chocolate added to blanc 
mange gives it an excellent flavor. If a sauce is desired with this- blanc 
mange, custard sauce is the best one to use. An attractive way in 
which to serve chocolate blanc mange is shown in Fig. 3. The entire 
recipe is made into one mold, which, when cold, is turned out on a 
•dish, surrounded with slices of banana, and garnished with whipped 
cream. 



16 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

i c. sugar 2 c. milk 

I c. cocoa i c. com starch 

i tsp. salt I tsp. vanilla 

Mix the sugar, cocoa, and salt and moisten with some of the milk. 
Place over the fire in the inner pan of a double boiler and allow it to 
come to a boil. Moisten the corn starch with some of the milk and 
add the rest to the cocoa mixture in the double boiler. Heat 
together in the boiler and stir the corn starch into this. Continue 
stirring until the corn starch has thickened the mixture, and then 
cook for 30 to 35 minutes. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla, 
pour into a mold moistened with cold water, cool, and serve with 
sweetened cream, custard sauce, or as shown in Fig. 3. 

34. Rice Custard. — A very good way in which to use left-over 
rice is to make a rice custard of it. If no cooked rice is on hand 
and rice is to be cooked for some other dish, it is not a bad plan to 
increase the amount slightly and use what remains for rice custard. 
The best method of preparing rice for this dessert it to steam it, but 
boiled or Japanese rice may also be used. 

Rice Custard 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 eggs i tsp. salt 

i c. sugar -J tsp. grated nutmeg 

1| c. hot milk 2 c. steamed rice 

Beat the eggs and to them add the sugar, hot milk, salt, and nut- 
meg. Pour this mixture over the rice. Place in a buttered baking 
dish, set the dish in a pan of warm water, and bake in a moderate 
oven until the custard is set. This will probably require about 45 
minutes. Cool and serve. 

35. Poor Man's Pudding-. — If a very economical dessert is 
desired, poor man's pudding should be tried. However, this requires 
considerable fuel and some care in its preparation, for it needs long, 
slow cooking in order to make it a good pudding, but when it is 
properly made it is a very delicious dessert. If a coal stove is used, 
it is a good plan to make such a dessert as this on a day when the 
stove is heated for ironing or for some other purpose that requires 
the use of fuel covering a long period of time. 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 17 

Poor Man's Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. rice Lemon rind 

t c. sugar 2 qt. milk 

1 tsp. salt i c. raisins 
Nutmeg 

Wash the rice in the usual way and place it in a baking dish. Add 
the sugar, salt, a grating of nutmeg, and a few thin slices of lemon 
rind. Pour in the milk, place in a slow oven, and bake for several 
hours. Stir frequently to prevent the top surface from browning, 
and if there is any possibility of this occurring, cover the baking dish 
with a cover. One hour before the pudding has finished baking, 
clean the raisins and add them. When done, remove from the oven, 
cool, and serve. When the pudding is served, the grains of rice should 
be whole and the liquid should be of a creamy consistency. If the 
pudding is too dry when cool, add a little more milk and return to 
the oven for a few minutes. 

36. Tapioca Cream. — In the dessert here given, as well as in 
several that follow, tapioca is used as the thickening material. 
Tapioca is practically a true starch and is taken from the roots of 
the cassava plant, which grows in tropical and subtropical regions. 
In the process of its manufacture, most of the starch cells are 
ruptured. It may be purchased in two forms : one that is large in 
size and called pearl tapioca and the other, very small and known as 
minute tapioca. Pearl tapioca does not require as long cooking if it 
is first soaked in cold water for a number of hours. Minute tapioca 
cooks in much less time than pearl tapioca. 

Tapioca cream is a soft custard that should be thin enough to pour 
when it is cold. It may be served with whipped cream if desired or 
may merely be poured into dessert dishes or sherbet glasses and 
served plain. A spoonful of pink jelly on top of each serving makes 
a very attractive garnish. 

Tapioca Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

^ c. tapioca i tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk 2 eggs 

J c. sugar -I tsp. vanilla 

Soak the tapioca in cold water for 4 or 5 hours before making 
the dessert, and then drain off all the water. Heat the milk in a 
double boiler, stir the tapioca into the hot milk, and cook until it is 



18 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

thick and transparent, being sure that none of the centers are 
uncooked. Add the sugar and salt. Separate the whites and yolks 
of the eggs. Beat the yolks, mix a small amount of the hot tapioca 
with them, and stir into the tapioca in the double boiler. Stir until 
the eggs have thickened and then remove from the fire. Beat the 
whites until they are stifif and fold, with the vanilla, into the tapioca. 
Cool and serve. 

37. Tapioca Custard. — If something different in the way of 
a tapioca dessert is desired, tapioca custard will no doubt be very 
acceptable. This dessert has the consistency of a baked custard con- 
taining tapioca, and in preparation and proportion that is really 
what it is. 

Tapioca Custard 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. tapioca f c. sugar 

2 c. milk 1 tsp. salt 

2 eggs i tsp. vanilla 

Soak the tapioca for 4 or 5 hours and drain oflf the water. Cook 
the tapioca and the milk in a double boiler until it is transparent and 
remove from the fire. Beat the eggs and to them add the sugar, 
salt, and vanilla, and stir this into the tapioca. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish and bake until the custard mixture is set. Cool and 
serve. 

38. Minute-Tapioca Custard. — Minute tapioca does not 

require soaking nor as long cooking as pearl tapioca, for the pieces 

of tapioca being much smaller may be more quickly penetrated by 

both heat and moisture. Then, too, a smaller proportion of it is 

required to thicken the same amount of milk. 

Minute-Tapioca Custard 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. milk i c. sugar 

2 Tb. minute tapioca ^ tsp. salt 
1 egg Vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler, add the tapioca, and cook for 
15 or 20 minutes. Beat the egg, add to it the sugar and salt, and 
pour the hot tapioca gradually into this. Flavor with vanilla, turn 
into a buttered baking dish, place in the oven in a pan of water, and 
bake for 20 to 30 minutes. Cool and serve. 

39. Apple Tapioca. — The combination of fruit and tapioca is 
agreeable to most persons. Peaches and apples, either fresh or 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 19 

canned, are used oftenest for this purpose. For the apple tapioca 
here given, the apples should be somewhat sour, as there will then 
be more character to the dessert. Canned or fresh peaches or canned 
pineapple may be used in exactly the same way as apples. If canned 
fruit is used, not so much sugar nor baking in the oven will be 
necessary. 

Apple Tapioca 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

f c. pearl tapioca or | c. minute 6 apples 

tapioca -J c. brown sugar 

2 c. boiling water 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i tsp. salt 1 Tb. butter 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak it for 4 or 5 hours and then drain off 
all the water. Minute tapioca will need no soaking. Add the tapioca 
to the boiling water and salt. Cook in a double boiler until the 
tapioca is entirely transparent. Pare and core the apples, place them 
in a buttered baking dish, fill each cavity with sugar and cinnamon, 
and place a piece of butter on top. Pour the hot tapioca over these, 
place in a hot oven, and bake until the apples are soft. Serve either 
hot or cold with sugar and cream. 

40. Caramel Tapioca. — Persons who care for caramel as a 
flavoring will find caramel tapioca a delicious dessert. The caramel 
for it should be made according to the directions given in Art. 25. 

Caramel Tapioca 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. pearl tapioca -J c. boiling water 
5 c. water 1 lemon 

2 c. sugar 

Put the tapioca to soak overnight in the water. When ready to 
prepare, place in a baking dish with the water used to soak the 
tapioca and set in a very slow oven. Caramelize half the sugar and 
add to it the i cupful of boiling water. Pour this with the remaining 
cup of sugar over the tapioca and continue to cook in the oven until 
the tapioca is perfectly clear and the liquid has evaporated suffi- 
ciently to make a dessert of the proper consistency to serve. Upon 
removing from the oven, squeeze the juice of the lemon over the 
tapioca and stir s.lowly so that this may penetrate throughout the 
dessert. Cool and serve with whipped cream. 

41. Farina Custard. — ^A means of using left-over breakfast 
cereals is given in the accompanying recipe. Farina is the cereal 



20 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

used, but vitos, cream of wheat, etc. may be used in the same way. 
Cereal may be cooked especially for the purpose if there is none on 
hand and the dessert is desired. In this event, it should be cooked 
in the usual way and may be used either warm or cold. 

Farina Custard 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. cooked farina i tsp. salt 

li c. milk I tsp. lemon 

1 egg i tsp. vanilla 
i c. sugar 

Mix the farina with the milk. Beat the egg and to it add the 
sugar and salt. Add this to the farina and milk, stir in the flavoring, 
and pour in a buttered baking dish. Bake until the mixture is set. 
This will require about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 



GELATINE DESSERTS 



PRINCIPLES OF GSLATINE MAKING 

42. Gelatine desserts are those in which gelatine forms the 
basis. Gelatine is an odorless, tasteless substance extracted from 
the bones and various tissues of animals. It is used in a variety of 
forms, such as glue and isinglass, but is also purified and prepared 
commercially for use in desserts. When it is to be used as a thicken- 
ing agent in dessert making, it is ground and sold in this form, or 
it is mixed with sugar, flavoring, and acid, when all that is necessary 
to make it an appetizing dessert is that it be dissolved in hot water. 
In both of these forms, it is sold under different trade names. The 
gelatine itself does not provide any appreciable food value, but it 
is a means of conveying various foods, such as eggs, milk, sugar, 
and many kinds of fruit and fruit juices, all of which are more or 
less valuable for their constituents. In addition, it produces desserts 
that are appetizing and that may be garnished and served in many 
attractive ways. 

43. To be most satisfactory, gelatine desserts should usually be 
made just heavy enough with gelatine to retain the desired shape. 
The heavier they become, the more rubbery they are in consistency 
and the less dainty and agreeable. Their consistency can be regu- 
lated by the proportion of liquid to gelatine that is used. 



§ IT COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 21 

The general method of preparation followed when plain gelatine is 
used in desserts consists in first soaking the gelatine in sufficient cold 
water to moisten it, then dissolving it in hot liquid as near the boil- 
ing point as possible, and finally cooling it in order to allow it to 
solidify. As cold is absolutely essential for the mixture to solidify, 
it is often difficult to prepare a gelatine dessert in the summer time. 
Therefore, when a dessert of this kind is desired in the warm 
weather, it should always be begun long enough before it is to be 
served to allow it to become thoroughly solid. As it is usually diffi- 
cult to tell how much time this requires on a warm day, even with 
a refrigerator or other cold place, it is much safer to overestimate 
the time required than to underestimate it. 

44. Boiling does not, as was formerly thought, destroy the 
power of coagulation in gelatine for at least some time. Therefore, 
when necessary, it may be boiled for 10 or 15 minutes without caus- 
ing any change. One fruit that will prevent gelatine from solidify- 
ing, however, is raw pineapple. This is an important point to 
remember in connection with gelatine desserts. If it is desired to 
use fresh pineapple with gelatine, it will first be necessary to bring 
the pineapple to the boiling point in order to destroy the property 
that prevents the gelatine from solidifying. 

45. The proportion of liquid to gelatine is another factor to be 
reckoned with in the successful making of gelatine desserts. This 
differs in the various kinds of gelatine, but the proper proportion is 
usually stated on the package in which the gelatine comes or on a 
folder inside the package. The amount mentioned is usually what is 
considered to be ideal for the preparation of gelatine dishes and 
may generally be relied on. In hot weather, however, it is advisable 
to use just a little less liquid than the directions require. 

In using the different brands of unsweetened and unflavored gela- 
tines, the proportion of liquid to gelatine is usually similar. One-half 
ounce of this granulated gelatine, which is one-half of the amount 
usually put up in a package, will solidify 1 quart of liquid. If this 
proportion is kept in mind, little difficulty will be experienced in 
using this form of gelatine. For convenience in measuring small 
amounts of the granulated gelatine, it will be well to remember that 
1 ounce of this material equals 4^ tablespoonfuls. Thus, if a recipe 
calls for i ounce of gelatine, it is simply necessary to measure 2i 
tablespoonfuls to get the required amount to solidify 1 quart of liquid. 

WI-C4— 7 



22 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



§17 



RBCIPEIS FOR GSI/ATINE DBSSERTS 

46. Plain Gelatine. — ^A very good dessert can be made of fruit 
juice solidified by means of gelatine. Any canned fruit juice or any 
mixture of juices that will blend well and produce a jelly of agree- 
able flavor may be used for this purpose. These are usually brought 
to the boiling point before being added, but in case juices that may 
be injured by heating are used, they may be added cold and the 
gelatine dissolved in boiling water. When this is done, a little 
additional lemon will be necessary in order to increase the flavor. 

Plain jelly made according to the accompanying recipe may 
be served in various attractive ways. One method of serving it is 
shown in Fig. 4. To prepare it in this manner, pour the gelatine 

mixture into stemmed glasses 

and allow it to solidify. When 
partly solid, decorate the top 
with wedge-shaped pieces of 
pineapple and place a cherry in 
the center, as illustrated. When 
entirely solid, place the glass on 
a small plate and serve. The 
fruit may be omitted if desired 
and whipped cream served on the 
gelatine. 

Plain jelly is also attractive 
when poured into a large mold, 
allowed to solidify, and then 
turned out on a plate. If the mold is moistened with cold water 
before the gelatine is poured into it, no difficulty will be experienced 
in removing the jelly when it becomes solid. The center of the mold 
may be filled with whipped cream before it is put on the table or the 
jelly may be served plain and the whipped cream then added to each 
serving from another dish. 

Plain Gelatine 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i oz. or 2i Tb. unflavored 3 c. fruit juice 

gelatine Juice of 1 lemon 

i c. cold water Sugar 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water until it is well moistened. 
Strain the fruit juices, heat to boiling point, and pour over the 




Fig. 4 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



23 



gelatine. Add the lemon juice and a sufficient amount of sugar to 
sweeten. Allow to solidify and serve in any desired manner. 

47. Orange Jelly. — An excellent dessert is the result when 
orange juice is used for flavoring and gelatine for thickening. This 
jelly may be poured into molds that have been moistened with cold 
water, or, as shown in Fig. 5, it may be poured into orange skins 
made to resemble baskets and then garnished with whipped cream. 

Orange Jelly 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i oz. or 2J Tb. unflavored 1 c. sugar 

gelatine | c. lemon juice 

i c. cold water 1^ c. orange juice 

1 c. boiling water 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water until it is well moistened, and 
dissolve with the boiling water. 
Add the sugar and the lemon and 
orange juice strained. Pour into 
a large mold or individual molds 
and set aside to solidify. Serve 
in any desired way. 

48. Coffee Jelly.— If fruit 
juices are difficult to obtain, 
coffee jelly, which will be found 
to be very pleasing, may be used 
occasionally. However, it is 
necessary that whipped cream be served with coflfee jelly in order 
to make it a really delightful dessert. 

Coffee Jelly 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. clear, strong coffee i c. cold water 

i oz. or 2i Tb. unflavored 1 c. boiling water 

gelatine I c. sugar 

Prepare the coffee freshly and make it stronger than that which 
would ordinarily be used for the table. Be sure that it contains no 
grounds. Soak the gelatine in the cold water, and dissolve in the 
boiling water. Add the sugar and coffee. Pour into moistened 
molds and allow to cool. Serve with sweetened whipped cream. 

49. Fruit Gelatine. — Almost any combination of fruit juices^ 
as well as any single fruit juice, may be used with gelatine in the 
making of fruit gelatine. The accompanying recipe contains fruits 




Fig. S 



24 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

that may be used, but other fruits *han those given may perhaps be 
found to be even more agreeable. 

Fruit Gelatine 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

:| oz. or 1^ Tb. unflavored J c. orange juice 

gelatine I c lemon juice 

i c. cold water 2 slices pineapple 

i c. boiling water 2 oranges 

I c. sugar 1 banana 

I c. pineapple juice 6 English walnuts 

Moisten the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve in the boiling 
water. Add the sugar and the orange, pineapple, and lemon juice, 
and allow this to cool. Dice the pineapple. Prepare the oranges 
by peeling them, removing the pulp from the sections, and cutting 
it into small pieces. Slice or dice the banana and break each nut 
into six or eight pieces. Mix the fruits and nuts, place in a mold 
that has been moistened with cold water, and pour the cold jelly over 
them. Allow this to solidify, turn from the mold, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

50. Lemon Snow. — If a light, spongy dessert to serve witfa a 
heavy dinner is desired, lemon snow should be tried. It may be made 
with other sour-fruit juice and is particularly agreeable if the color 
of the fruit juice used is a pretty one. Fruit coloring may be used 
in the preparation of dishes of this sort if desired. 

Lemon Snow 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i OZ. or 2i Tb. unflavored 1 c. sugar 

gelatine i c. lemon juice 

i c. cold water Whites of two eggs 

l-J c. boiling water 
Soak the geir ' ^e in the cold water, dissolve it in the boiling water, 
and r ' the sug. When cold, add the strained lemon juice. When 
the g>. jine mixture is just beginning to solidify, add the egg whites, 
beating with a rotary beater until the mixture begins to hold its 
shape. If desired, a fruit of some kind may be placed in a mold that 
has been moistened with cold water and the mixture poured over 
it, or the plain mixture may be poured into the mold without the 
fruit. Whipped cream "stard sauce improves this dessert to a 

large extent. 

51. Spanish Cream. — A gelatine dish containing eggs is 
usually a deligl" ful dessert, and Spanish cream is no exception to 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



25 



ic 



sugar 
i tsp. salt 
i tsp. vanilla 



Heat the milk in a double 



this rule. If it is properly made, a part of the mold will have the 
consistency of a custard, above this will be a layer of jelly, and on 
top will be a layer of fluffy material. This dessert is more attractive 
if a little pink coloring is used in its preparation. 

Spanish Cream 
(SufScient to Serve Six) 

1 Tb. unflavored gelatine 
i c. cold water 

1 pt. milk 

2 eggs 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, 
boiler, add the gelatine, and cook until it is completely dissolved. 
Separate the eggs, beat 
the yolks, and to them 
add the sugar and salt. 
Stir into the mixture 
in the double boiler, 
and cook until the eggs 
have thickened. Re- 
move from the fire, 
beat the egg whites 
until they are stifi^, and 
fold them into the mix- 
ture. Add the vanilla. 
Pour into a mold that 
has been moistened 
with cold water, cool. 

Fig. 6 

and serve. If coloring 

is added, it may be put in upon removing the dessert from the stove. 




52. 



-One of t most at 



Strawberry Cream Fluff. — One of t ,,most a1^;-active 
desserts that can be made of gelatine is strawberry cream , c. It 
is especially delicious in warm weather, but plenty of time miist be 
allowed for it to solidify. Any desired way of serving it may be 
followed out, but a method that is always pleasing is illustrated in 
Fig. 6. The gelatine mixture is piled into stemmed glasses and then 
surrounded by thin pieces of sponge/ ^ or ladyfingers, as here 
shown. A few fresh strawberries o iwberries that have been 

canned in thick sirup make an attractive garnish. If a deeper shade 
•of pink is desired than the strawberry juice gives, pink coloring may 
be added before the whipped cream is beaten into tl- '; gelatine. 



26 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

Strawberry Cream Fluff 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 Tb. unflavored gelatine Juice of one lemon 

i c. cold water i c. sugar 

1 J c. strawberry juice 1 J c. whipped cream 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Heat the strawberry juice to 
the boiling point, and add it to the soaked gelatine. Add the lemon 
juice and sugar and place the gelatine where it will cool. When it 
has started to solidify, beat into it the whipped cream and continue 
beating until the mixture stands up well when dropped from a spoon. 
Place in a mold and cool. Serve in any desired way. 

53. Pineapple Cream Fluff. — If pineapple is preferred to 

strawberries, pineapple cream fluff may be made according to the 

accompanying directions. Canned pineapple may be utilized nicely 

in the preparation of this dessert. If it is in rings, it should be 

chopped into small pieces, but grated pineapple needs no further 

preparation. Fresh pineapple used for the purpose must be cooked 

before it can be used in this dessert. 

Pineapple Cream Fluff 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 Tb. unflavored gelatine i c. sugar 

■J c. cold water 1 J c. whipped cream 

1^ c. pineapple juice 1 c. grated or chopped pineapple 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Heat the pineapple juice to 
the boiling point and add it to the soaked gelatine. Add the sugar 
and set aside to cool. After the gelatine has started to solidify, beat 
the whipped cream and the grated pineapple into it. When solidified 
and ready to use, turn out on a plate and serve with whipped cream. 
If desired, the pineapple may be left out of the dessert and, instead, 
a spoonful placed on the top of each serving. 

54. Marsliinallow Whip. — Something rather unusual in the 
way of a gelatine dessert can be had by making marshmallow whip 
according to the accompanying recipe. 

Marshmallow Whip 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 oz. or 2i Tb. unflavored Pink coloring 

gelatine Strawberry flavoring 

1 pt. water ^ sq. chocolate 

1 c. sugar Vanilla 

3 egg whites 
Soak the gelatine in ^ cupful of water. Bring 1 cupful of water 
to the boiling point, dissolve the gelatine in it, and place in ice water 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 27 

to cool. Put the sugar to cook with | cupful of water, and cook until 
the sirup will spin a thread or until it will form a firm ball when 
tried in cold water. Beat the egg whites, pour the hot sirup gradu- 
ally over them, and continue beating. Add the gelatine, which by 
this time should be commencing to solidify. Divide the mixture into 
three equal parts. To one add a httle pink coloring and some straw- 
berry flavoring and pour into a mold that has been wet with cold 
water. To one of the remaining parts, add the chocolate, which has 
been melted, mixed with a tablespoonful or two of sugar and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water, and cooked to a smooth paste. Continue beating 
this until it is stiff, and then pour it in the mold on top of the straw- 
berry flavored whip. To the remaining third, add the vanilla, beat 
until it is stiff, and pour on top of the chocolate whip. These colors 
may be arranged in any desirable way, others may be used, or the 
whip may be made up simply in one color or in two. After it has 
become set and hardened, turn from the mold, and serve, using 
whipped cream if desired. 

FROZEN DESSERTS 



PRINCIPLES OF FROZEN-DESSERT MAKING 

55. Nature of Frozen Desserts. — Frozen desserts were 
formerly confined almost entirely to warm weather, but they are 
now used during the entire year and served on almost any occasion. 
They are without doubt the daintiest dessert that can be served and 
are popular with almost every one. A very ordinary meal becomes 
much more attractive when a frozen dessert is served with it, and a 
dainty luncheon or an elaborate dinner seems incomplete without a 
dessert of this nature. In reality, it is quite impossible to serve, in 
either hot or cold weather, any dessert that is as pleasing as an ice 
or an ice cream of some kind. 

56. In addition to being delicious and finding favor with most 
persons, frozen desserts occur in unlimited variety. They include 
ice creams of various kinds, frozen custards and punches, sherbets, 
ices, frappes, mousses, parfaits, and biscuits. Recipes for several 
varieties of each of these kinds are given in this Section, and it will 
therefore not be a difiicult matter to select a frozen dessert that will 
be suitable for any meal in which it may be served. The preparation 



28 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

of frozen desserts, however, need not be confined to a certain limited 
number of recipes, as a recipe may be devised to suit almost any 
occasion or condition. For instance, if there are certain fruits or 
fruit juices in supply that should be used, an excellent way in which 
to utilize them is in a frozen dessert of some kind. After a little 
experience, the housewife will find that she can produce excellent 
results by merely combining the ingredients she has on hand or those 
corresponding with the meal in which the frozen dessert is to be 
served. 

57. The food value of frozen desserts varies with the ingre- 
dients used in their preparation, it being extremely high in some and 
very low in others. Therefore, the particular one to select depends 
somewhat on the other dishes in the meal. On the whole, they con- 
tain very heaUhful ingredients, so that, if they are properly made, 
they may have a place in the diets of both children and grown ups, 
sick persons and well ones. Whether or not certain individuals 
should eat frozen desserts is sometimes a troublesome question. 
There may be conditions under which desserts of this kind should 
not be included in the diet, but these need not give the housewife 
any particular concern. 

58. Frozen desserts may be purchased ready made, but those 
made in the home cost less, are usually more delicious, and can be 
prepared in greater variety. As they are not difficult to make and 
are not necessarily an expensive dessert, the housewife should often 
include them in her meals. Therefore, an ice-cream freezer of a size 
that will accommodate the requirements of the members of the 
family is a good thing to add to the cookery equipment. Ices and ice 
creams can be made in a pail that has a cover and a bail, such as a 
lard pail, but this is not a very convenient equipment and does not 
produce such satisfactory results as those obtained with a good 
freezer. Some desserts of this kind may be frozen without the use 
of a freezer, but, as a rule, they contain materials that make them 
rather expensive. 

59. Theory of Freezing. — So that the best results may oe 
secured in the making of frozen desserts, it is well that the theory 
of freezing be thoroughly understood. The two things necessary 
for the freezing of such desserts are ice and salt. When these are 
brought together and the ice melts, a salt solution is formed, since 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 29 

salt has a tendency to combine with moisture whenever they come in 
contact with each other. In order to obtain this result in the freez- 
ing of desserts, it is necessary, of course, that the ice be melted. The 
warmth required to make this melting possible comes from the con- 
tents of the can inside the ice-cream freezer. When this warmth is 
absorbed by the ice, the cold temperature released by the melting of 
the ice passes into the ice-cream mixture. The result is that the ice 
tends to become liquid and the contents of the can solid by the 
exchange of temperatures. To make the mixture of uniform con- 
sistency, it is usually agitated by means of a dasher during the freez- 
ing process. This incorporates air into the mixture and consequently 
makes it light and increases its volume. 

60. Proportion of Ice to Salt. — The ingredients used in the 
mixture have much to do with the texture of the ice cream when it 
is frozen. For instance, a mixture that is thin and composed largely 
of water will not have so smooth a consistency when frozen as a 
heavier mixture in which cream or eggs or both are present and a 
smaller proportion of water is used. Another important factor in 
the texture of the finished product is the proportion of ice to salt, 
for this has much to do with the length of time required for freez- 
ing the mixture. The smaller the proportion of salt, the slower will 
be the freezing process, for the melting of the ice takes place more 
slowly ; but the result of this slow freezing is a finer, smoother tex- 
ture. Granular, coarse-grained frozen desserts, such as some sher- 
bets and frappes, are frozen with a large proportion of salt, which 
permits the freezing to take place more quickly. 

61. On this rapidity in freezing also depends to a large extent 
the increase in quantity that takes place in the frozen mixture. Any 
one who has had experience in making ice cream knows that the can 
of the freezer cannot be filled before the freezing is begun or it will 
overflow during the freezing process. Even if it is only two-thirds 
or three-fourths full, it will be entirely full when the freezing is 
completed. This increase depends somewhat on the kind of mixture, 
as has been stated, as well as on the way in which the crank of the 
freezer is turned, but it is more largely determined by the propor- 
tion of ice and salt and consequently by the length of time required 
for the freezing. As can be readily understood, the more turning 
that is done, the greater will be the quantity of air incorporated into 
the mixture and naturally the more increase in volume. 



30 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



§1T 



62. Table Showing Details of Freezing. — ^As an aid to the 

housewife in the making of frozen desserts, Table I is presented. 
In it are given the names of the various kinds of frozen desserts, 
together with the usual texture of each, the proportion of ice and salt 
required to freeze each, the way in which it freezes, and the increase 

TABLE I 

FROZEIV DESSERTS 



Kind of Dessert 



Texture 



Propor- 
tion of 
Ice and 
Salt 



Manner of 
Freezing 



Increase 
in Volume 
Per Cent. 



Philadelphia ice cream 
Custard ice cream. . . . 

Frozen custard 

Sherbet 

Ice 

Frappe 

Frozen punch 

Mousse 

Parfait 

Biscuit 



Fine 

Fine 

Fine 

Slightly granular 

Slightly granular 

Granular 

Granular 

Fine 

Fine 

Fine 



3 tol 
3 to 1 
3 tol 
2 to 1 
2 to 1 
1 to 1 

1 to 1 

2 to 1 
2 to 1 
2 to 1 



Slow 

Slow 

Slow 

Rapid 

Rapid 

Very rapid 

Very rapid 

Very slow 

Very slow 

Very slow 



25 to 40 

25 to 40 

25 to 40 

20 to 30 

20 to 30 

10 to 20 

10 to 20 

None 

None 

None 



in volume that can be expected in each. In trying out the recipes 
that follow, it will be well for the housewife to refer to this table 
for the particular dessert that she is making, for then she will be 
able to carry out the freezing more successfully and will understand 
what to expect in the finished product. 



PROCEDURE IN FREEZING DESSERTS 

63. The preparation of frozen desserts is comparatively simple 
in nature, for it usually involves nothing except the cooking of the 
raw ingredients and the proper combining of the materials required 
in the recipe. Sometimes a custard mixture containing starch is 
prepared, and other times a real custard is made. The same rules 
that apply to the preparation of these dishes under other conditions 
should be followed here. As the housewife is already familiar with 
these principles, she will find that there is very little to master about 
the preparation of frozen desserts up to the time of freezing. A 
point that should always be remembered, however, is that the mixture 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 31 

should be prepared long enough before the freezing to be entirely 
cold when it is put into the freezer, and that, if possible, it should be 
cooled in a refrigerator. No trouble will be experienced in prepar- 
ing enough frozen dessert for the number that are to be served if 
it is remembered that 1 quart of unfrozen mixture will serve six 
to eight persons when it is frozen. 

64. Freezing tlie Mixture. — ^With the preparation of the 
mixture well understood, the housewife should turn her attention 
to the principles that are involved in its freezing. As has been 
explained, a can that has a cover and a bail may sometimes be used, 
especially if the dessert does not need turning, but a freezer is 
necessary for good results in the preparation of a frozen dessert that 
requires turning. In the case of those that need no turning, such as 
mousses, parfaits, etc., a mold of some kind or a vacuum freezer 
is required. 

The usual type of freezer consists of a pail, generally wooden, 
and a can of smaller size that sets inside of the pail. The space 
between the can and the pail is where the ice and salt that freeze the 
mixture are packed. The can, which is the container for the mix- 
ture, contains a removable dasher that is turned during the freezing 
and thus beats air into the mixture. It is covered with a top that 
has an opening in the center through which one end of the dasher 
extends, and a ring of cogs surrounding this opening. For the entire 
freezer there is a top piece that fastens to both sides of the wooden 
bucket. It contains a set of cogs that fit into the cogs on the cover 
of the can. To one side of this piece is attached a crank, which, 
upon being turned, moves both the can containing the mixture and 
the dasher inside the can. 

65. The first thing to be done in the freezing of any dessert is 
to get the ice ready for use. This may be done in numerous ways, 
but perhaps the most convenient one is shown in Fig. 7. A bag made 
of a heavy material, such as canvas or ticking, and wooden mallet 
are used for this purpose. Place the ice in the bag and, as here 
shown, hold the bag shut with one hand and pound it with the mallet 
held in the other. Continue the pounding until the ice is broken into 
small pieces, and then empty it into a dishpan or some other large 
pan. After the proportion of salt to ice has been decided upon, mix 
the salt with the ice in the manner shown in Fig. 8. 



32 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



§17 



66. Before the freezer is used, scald the can and the dasher 
thoroughly with boiling water as shown in Fig. 9, and then set them 
aside to cool. When entirely cold, fit the can into the freezer, and 





Fig. 7 



Fig. 



then, as shown in Fig. 10, pour the mixture into the can. Remember 
that the mixture should come to within only one-third or one-fourth 
of the top of the can. With the cover placed securely on the can and 
the top of the freezer attached, proceed to pack the ice and salt into 






k^ 




m^ 


5j 


^m 



Fig. 9 



Fig. 10 



the freezer. As shown in Fig. 11, fill the space between the can and 
the container with these materials, using a large spoon for this pur- 
pose. Work them down around the can with the small end of a 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



33 



potato masher or similar implement, as in Fig. 12, packing the 
freezer as tightly as possible and making sure that the ice comes 
higher than the surface of the mixture inside of the can. 

When the packing has been finished, see that the top is securely 
attached and that the hole in the side of the freezer is well stopped 
up. Then proceed to freeze the cream. Turn the crank slowly, for 
nothing is gained by turning the mixture rapidly at the temperature 
at which it is put into the freezer. After the temperature has been 
reduced considerably, and just as the mixture begins to thicken a 
trifle, start turning the crank more rapidly. The air incorporated 
just at this time by the turning of the dasher increases the volume 
considerably, for it will remain held in the mixture. 





Fig. 11 



Fig. 12 



67. Packing- the Mixture. — If the frozen dessert is to be 
served at once, turn the crank until it is difficult to turn any longer. 
Howevei', in case the dessert is not to be used as soon as it is made, 
it should be frozen only moderately hard and then packed and 
allowed to freeze more. During this second freezing process, a con- 
dition occurs that is known as ripening and that improves the quality 
as well as the flavor of the dessert. After the freezing has been 
carried on to the desired degree, unfasten the top of the freezer, 
wipe the can thoroughly around the top with a cloth to make sure 
that all salt and ice are removed, and then remove the cover. 
Proceed at once to lift out the dasher and to scrape it clean with a 
knife or a spoon, as shown in Fig. 13. Push down the frozen dessert 
in the can carefully and tightly with the aid of a spoon. To prepare 



34 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



§17 



it for packing, stretch a piece of waxed paper over the top of the can, 
replace the cover, and fit a cork into the hole in the cover through 
which the top of the dasher extends, as Fig. 14 shows. With this 





Fig. 13 



Fig. 14 



done, remove the stopper from the hole in the side of the freezei 
and, as Fig. 15 shows, run off the brine that has formed by the melt- 
ing of the ice. Then repack the freezer with a mixture of ice and 
salt in the proportion of 2 to 1 and set aside until needed. 

68. Using: a "Vacuum 
Freezer. — There are some frozen 
desserts that do not necessarily re- 
quire the incorporation of air by 
means of a dasher to be satisfac- 
tory. For desserts of this kind, a 
vacuum freezer, that is, one that 
requires no turning, may be used. 

In such a freezer a container ex- 
tends down through the center of 
the can and is surrounded by an aii 
space. The mixture to be frozen is 
poured into this container from the 
top and the ice-and-salt mixture 
that does the freezing is put in from the bottom and takes up the 
air space. Covers fasten securely both the top and the bottom. A 
handle attached to one side makes the handling of such a freezer 
an easy matter. 




Fig. 15 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



35 



By many, a freezer of this kind is considered a decided advantage 
over the usual variety of freezer, for it requires no turning, but 
there are certain disadvantages 
about its use that should be under- 
stood before one is secured. In 
the first place, the expansion that 
is produced in the mixture by the 
incorporation of air when an ordi- 
nary freezer is used does not 
occur in a vacuum freezer. Also, 
the texture of the finished product 
is not, as a rule, equal to that of 
the dessert made in a freezer 
turned with a dasher. In addi- 
tion, it is necessary to crack the 
ice somewhat finer for a vacuum 
freezer and to mix it thoroughly 
with the correct proportion of salt 
required for the particular kind 
of mixture frozen. F'o- 1^ 

69. When a vacuum freezer is to be used, turn it upside down 
and insert the ice-and-salt mixture through the opening in the bottom. 
Then close it tight, turn it right side up, and with the top open, pour 






Fig. 17 



Fig. 18 



in the mixture as shown in Fig, 16. Screw the top on tightly in the 
manner shown in Fig. 17, just as the bottom is screwed on, and set 
the freezer aside. After the mixture has stood for about 15 minutes. 



36 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

open the freezer from the top and stir the contents down from the 
sides with a knife or a spoon, as in Fig. 18. Then replace the cover 
and allow the freezing to continue for 10 minutes more. At the end 
of this time, open the freezer again, repeat the stirring, refasten the 
cover, and continue the freezing for another 5 minutes. The mix- 
ture should then be ready to serve. 



RECIPES FOR FROZEN DESSERTS 



ICE CREAMS 



70. Philadelphia Ice Cream. — Perhaps the simplest of 
frozen desserts to make is Philadelphia ice cream, but it requires 
cream in order that its texture be good. For this reason, it is not so 
economical as some of those which are a trifle more complicated to 
prepare. It consists of cream sweetened, flavored, and then frozen. 
This is a particularly attractive way in which to make ice cream 
when strawberries, red raspberries, or peaches are in season, as these 
fresh fruits may be crushed and added to the cream, instead of plain 
flavoring. 

The recipe here given for the preparation of Philadelphia ice 
cream contains vanilla as the flavoring, but fresh fruit of any desir- 
able kind may be added, this recipe being used merely as a basis. 
Usually li cupfuls of crushed fruit is required for a quart of cream. 
It is necessary, however, to vary the quantity of sugar with the 
nature of the fruit used. For instance, if fresh strawberries are 
used, more sugar will be required than if canned ones are used, 
because sugar has already been added to these. The best plan is to 
test the mixture before freezing it, remembering ahvavs that more 
sugar is required for a frozen dessert than would be necessary if the 
mixture were not to be frozen. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. cream 1 Tb. vanilla 

1 c. sugar 

Scald the cream in a double boiler, add the sugar and the vanilla, 
and cool. If desired, add 1^ cupfuls of crushed fruit. If pineapple 
is used, it may be grated or shredded instead of being crushed. Place 
in a freezer and freeze according to the directions previously given. 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 37 

71. Vanilla Ice Cream. — Plain ice cream is usually made 
from ingredients that are somewhat cheaper than those used to make 
Philadelphia ice cream. It consists usually of a custard foundation, 
to which are added flavoring, sometimes fruit, and usually thin 
cream. The custard foundation is often made with corn starch and 
a small amount of raw egg. The same rules must be observed in 
the preparation of this foundation for ice cream as have been learned 
in the making of custards. Frequently some starchy material, such 
as flour or corn starch, is used for thickening in the preparation of 
this dessert. Some persons prefer flour, as they believe that the 
presence of flour cannot be detected so easily as that of corn starch ; 
however, a recipe using each is given. The mixtures used for this 
ice cream should not be boiled, but cooked in a double boiler. If 
desired, fruits, either cooked or raw, or nuts may be added to the ice 
cream for variety. 

Vanilla Ice Cream No. 1 

(Sufiicient to Serve Six) 

4 Tb. flour 2 c. thin cream 

1 c. sugar 2 eggs 

i tsp. salt 2 Tb. vanilla 
4 c. milk 

Mix the flour, sugar, and salt with sufficient cold liquid to moisten 
well. Add this to the remainder of the milk and the cream heated 
in a double boiler. Stir until thickened, and cook for about 20 
minutes. Beat the eggs and add slowly to the mixture, stirring 
rapidly to prevent curding. Cook until the egg has thickened, strain, 
add the vanilla, cool, and freeze. 

Vanilla Ice Cream No. 2 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. milk 2 eggs 

3 Tb. corn starch 1 pt. cream 

1^ c. sugar 1 Tb. vanilla 

Scald the milk and stir into it the corn starch mixed with half the 
sugar. Stir constantly until thickened, and cook for 15 to 20 minutes. 
Beat the eggs, add the remaining sugar, mix with a little of the hot 
mixture, and stir into the double boiler. Remove from the heat, add 
the cream, strain, cool, add the flavoring, and freeze. 

72. Chocolate Ice Cream. — Next to vanilla ice cream, choco- 
late seems to be the most desired. Some persons think this variety 
is difficult to make, but if the accompanying directions are carefully 

WI-C4-8 



38 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

followed, no difficulty will be experienced and a delicious dessert 
will be the result. 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. sugar i tsp. salt 
i c. water 4 Tb. flour 

3 sq. melted chocolate 2 eggs 

5 c. milk 4 tsp. vanilla 

2 c. thin cream 

Mix the sugar and water and cook until a sirup forms. Add this 
to the melted chocolate and cook together until the two are well 
blended. Add this mixture to the heated milk and cream, which 
have been seasoned with the salt and thickened with the flour. Beat 
the eggs and add to the hot mixture, stirring rapidly to prevent curd- 
ing. Remove from the heat, cool, add the vanilla, strain, and freeze. 

73. Moclia Ice Cream. — As the flavor of coffee is usually 
well liked, Mocha ice cream, which has coffee for its flavoring, is a 
dessert that often finds a place in the meal. It is especially nice to 
serve in the hot weather when hot coffee is omitted from the meal. 

Mocha Ice Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Si:i) 

1 c. water 1^ c. sugar 
i c. ground coffee -J tsp. salt 

IJ c. milk 1 qt. cream 

2 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

Heat the water and add it to the coffee. Allow this to stand on the 
back of the stove for about 4 hour, and then strain through cheese- 
cloth. Heat the milk in a double boiler, and to it add the strained 
coffee. Beat the eggs and add the sugar and salt to them. Stir into 
this a spoonful of the hot milk and coffee and then add to the mix- 
ture in the double boiler. Cook until the eggs have thickened, stir- 
ring constantly to prevent curding. Remove from the heat, cool, 
add the cream and vanilla, strain through a fine sieve, and freeze. 

74. Caramel Ice Cream. — No more delicious ice cream can 
be made than that flavored with caramel. It is usually very fine in 
texture and rich in flavor. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. sugar 1 egg 

i c. water ^ tsp. salt 

2 c. milk 1 qt. thin cream 

2 Tb. flour 1 Tb. vanilla 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 39 

Caramelize one-half of the sugar and add the water. Cook to a 
sirup. Prepare a custard with the milk, remaining sugar, flour, egg, 
and salt. Remove from the heat, add the caramel and the cream, 
strain, add the vanilla, cool, and freeze. 

75. Junket Ice Cream With. Peach.es. — An attractive 
frozen dessert can be made by freezing junket and serving it with 
canned peaches and peach sirup. This may be made into a mold 
and the mold garnished with the peaches, or it may be served on indi- 
vidual plates and a half of a peach put on each plate. 

Junket Ice Cream With Peaches 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. cream 1 Tb. cold water 
14 qt. milk 1 Tb. vanilla 

14 c. sugar 1 tsp. almond extract 

i tsp. salt Green coloring 

2 junket tablets Canned peaches 

Mix the cream and milk, add the sugar and salt, and heat in a 
double boiler until lukewarm. Dissolve the junket tablets in the 
cold water and add to the lukewarm milk. Add the flavoring and 
the green coloring, making the junket a pale green, and stand in a 
warm place until set. Turn into a freezer and freeze. If desired, 
mold and garnish the mold with the peaches. Add sugar to the 
peach juice and cook until a thick sirup is formed. Pour this over 
the whole and serve. If it is desired not to mold the ice cream, 
serve it with a peach on individual serving plates and pour a spoon- 
ful of peach sirup over each portion. 

76. French Ice Cream. — No more delicious ice cream can be 
made than that given in the accompanying recipe and known as 
French ice cream. It is especially nice for serving when something 
very attractive is desired, as at a dainty luncheon or an afternoon 
or evening party. 

French Ice Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. milk 1 qt. cream 

1 c. sugar 1 Tb. vanilla 

Yolks of 8 eggs 1 tsp. lemon 

Heat the milk and add the sugar and beaten yolks of the eggs- 
Cook until the mixture thickens, remove from the fire, add the cream, 
vanilja, and lemon. Cool and freeze. 



40 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 



FROZEN CUSTARDS 

77. Frozen custard makes a very desirable kind of frozen 
dessert. If properly made, the result is a delightfully rich dessert 
of smooth texture. It may be frozen without turning or in the usual 
way. A similar mixture is used in some of the recipes of the more 
complicated frozen desserts given later. Fruits and nuts may be 
used in the preparation of frozen custard to procure variety. During 
the season when eggs are expensive, this dessert is a rather extrava- 
gant one, so that from the standpoint of economy it should be made 
in the spring and summer. 

78. Plain Frozen Custard. — If a frozen dessert that is easily 
made is desired, plain frozen custard should be tried. The accom- 
panying recipe gives directions for custard of this kind. 

Plain Frozen Custakd 

(Sufficient to Serve Six^ 

li qt. milk -J tsp. salt 

6 eggs 1 Tb. vanilla 

li c. sugar 1 tsp. lemon extract 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Separate the eggs, beat the 
yolks, and add the sugar and salt to them. Add this to the hot milk, 
stirring rapidly until the mixture thickens. Remove from the heat, 
beat the egg whites, and fold them into the mixture. Add the 
vanilla and lemon extract, cool, and freeze. 

79. Frozen Custard With Nuts. — Plain frozen custard can 
be greatly improved by the addition of nuts. The nuts used may be 
blanched almonds roasted in the oven until they are brown, hickory 
nuts, English walnuts, pecans, black walnuts, or a mixture of any of 
these. They should not be put through a grinder, but should be put 
into a chopping bowl and chopped fine with a chopping knife. Pre- 
pare the mixture and freeze to a mush, then open the freezer, add a 
cupful of chopped nuts, close the freezer, and complete the freezing. 

80. Frozen Custard With Raisins. — Frozen custard is also 
delicious when maple sirup is used in its preparation and raisins are 
added before the freezing is complete. 

Frozen Custard With Raisins 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sultana raisins 1 J c. maple sirup 

1 qt. milk 1 pt. thin cream 

6 eggs 1 Tb. vanilla 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 41 

Steam the raisins until they are soft. Heat the milk in a double 
boiler. Beat the eggs, add the maple sirup, and add this to the milk. 
Cook until the mixture has thickened, remove from the heat, and stir 
in the cream and vanilla. Cool and freeze to a mush ; then add the 
raisins and continue freezing until stiff. Serve. 

81. Tutti-Frutti Frozen Custard. — A very rich dessert can 
be made by adding chopped nuts and several kinds of fruit to cus- 
tard and then freezing it to make tutti-frutti custard. Such a dessert 
is high in food value and is suitable for a meal in which other 
rich food is not served. 

Tutti-Frutti Frozen Custard 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. milk 2 Tb. maraschino juice 

6 egg yolks ^ c. chopped maraschino cherries 

1 c. sugar i c. chopped nuts 

■J tsp. salt i c. chopped candied pineapple 

1 Tb. vanilla i c. shredded coconut 

I c. chopped citron 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat the egg yolks and add the 
sugar and salt. Add this to the hot milk and stir until the custard 
has thickened. Cool, add the vanilla, chopped citron, maraschino 
juice, cherries, nuts, pineapple, and coconut. Place in a freezer and 
freeze until stiff. Pack and let stand until time to serve. 



82. Ices are simple mixtures of fruit juice and sugar diluted 
with water and then frozen. They are expected to be somewhat 
sour, and, as a rule, lemon juice is relied on to assist in obtaining this 
flavor. In addition, lemon juice also helps to bring out the flavor of 
the fruit used as the basis of the ice. 

As a rule, a very smooth texture is not desired in this dessert; 
consequently, ice is frozen quite rapidly and, as will be noted in 
Table I, with a high proportion of salt. Unless the fruit used in an 
ice is expensive, this is probably the cheapest frozen dessert that can 
be made, for it seldom contains any other ingredients than those 
mentioned. It is usually clear, but occasionally the fruit pulp is used 
in addition to the fruit juice. When this is done, the mixture should 
not be frozen too hard, as the fruit is apt to become icy. Fresh, 
canned, or preserved fruit may be used. The sugar used for ices is 



42 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

usually cooked with the water to form a sirup. Otherwise, the sugar 
often fails to dissolve and remains granular, preventing the ice from 
being as sweet as it should be for the amount of sugar used. 

83. Lemon Ice. — The ice most frequently made is that flav- 
ored with lemon. It is very refreshing when served plain, but it can 
be improved by the addition of fruit. A very delightful way in 
which to serve it is to place a large spoonful in a sherbet glass, pour 
over this a spoonful cr two of the sirup from maraschino cherries, 
and then garnish with diced bananas. 

Lemon Ice 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. water f c. lemon juice 
2J c. sugar 

Mix the water and sugar, bring to a boil, and cool. Add the lemon 
juice, turn into a freezer, and freeze. Serve in any desired way. 

84. Orange Ice.— ^Persons fond of oranges generally welcome 
orange ice as a dessert. As orange ice is somewhat bland in flavor, 
it is improved by the addition of a little lemon juice. 

Orange Ice 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. sugar 2 c. orsmge juice 

4 c. water i c. lemon juice 

Cook the sugar and water until a thin sirup is formed, add the 
lemon and orange juice, and freeze. 

85. Fruit Ice. — No more refreshing dessert for warm weather 
can be made than fruit ice. Orange and lemon juice are used as the 
foundation, and grated pineapple and crushed strawberries are added 
for flavoring. 

Fruit Ice 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. sugar 3 lemons 

2 c. water 1 c. grated pineapple 

3 oranges 1 c. crushed strawberries 

Cook the sugar and water until a thin sirup is formed, and then 
cool. Add the juice of the oranges and lemons, the grated pineapple, 
fresh if possible, and the crushed strawberries. Freeze and serve. 

86. Frozen Spiced Puncli. — Something entirely different in 
the way of a frozen dessert can be made by making frozen spiced 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 43 

punch according to the accompanying directions. A dessert of this 
kind is a fitting conclusion to a meal that is somewhat hearty and 
varied in its nature. 

Frozen Spiced Punch 

(SufiEicient to Serve Six) 

6 cloves i c. pineapple juice 

2-in. stick cinnamon i c. orange juice 

1 qt. water ^ c. lemon juice 

2 c. sugar 4 drops wintergreen oil 

Put the cloves and cinnamon into the water, place over the fire, 
bring to the boiling point, and then add the sugar. Cook together 
for a few minutes, remove from the fire, and cool. Add the pine- 
apple, orange, and lemon juice, strain, add the wintergreen oil, 
and freeze. 

87. Mint Puncli. — ^When meals containing rich meats and 
other rich foods are served, it will be found that mint punch adds just 
what is needed to balance them. It is an easy dessert to make, as 
will be seen from the accompanying recipe. 

Mint Punch 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sugar 1 bunch fresh mint 

1 qt. water 4 drops peppermint oil 

3 lemons Green coloring 

Cook the sugar and water until a thin sirup is formed. Cool and 
add the juice of the lemons. Wash and chop the leaves of the mint 
into small pieces, and add these to the liquid. Add the peppermint 
oil and sufficient coloring to make it a pale green. Freeze. The 
fresh mint leaves may be omitted if desired. 



FRAPPfiS 



88. Frapp^s, in composition, are very similar to ices, consist- 
ing usually of crushed fruit or fruit juice, water, and sugar. They 
are granular when frozen, and, as they are never frozen as hard as 
ice cream and ices, they are of a mushy consistency. They are more 
often used for serving with a heavy course in a dinner or between 
two courses than as a dessert. The freezing of frappes is accom- 
plished rapidly, for, as will be observed from Table I, the proportion 
of ice and salt used is 1 to 1. This, together with the fact 
that the mixture contains a large proportion of water, accounts 



U COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

for the granular nature of f rappes. Any desirable fruit may be used 
in the preparation of this dessert. If it is a rather bland fruit, such 
as peaches, raspberries, etc., lemon juice should be added in order 
to give a sour taste and the mixture will need to be sweetened 
accordingly. 

89. Cranberry Frapp6. — To the dinner course of a meal in 
which chicken, turkey, duck, or other fowl is served, cranberry 
frappe is often added. It may be used in place of the cranberry 
jelly and will be found to be a delightful change. 

Cranberry Frapp^ 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar 

3 c. water 2 lemons 

Put the cranberries to cook with the water. When all the berries 
have become soft, force them through a colander, add the sugar, and 
put over the fire to cook until the sugar is completely dissolved. 
Remove from the fire and cool, add the juice of the lemons, and 
freeze. 

90. Cider Frappe. — ^A delightful addition to a Thanksgiving 

dinner is cider frappe. It should be served with the dinner course 

rather than as a dessert. 

Cider pRAPpf; 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. water 1 qt. cider 

i c. sugar 2 lemons 

Place the water and sugar over the fire and cook until the sugar 
is dissolved. Cool and then add the sirup to the cider and the juice 
of the lemons. Freeze. 

91. Cherry Frapp6. — No more attractive frappe can be served 
than that flavored with cherries and colored with a pink coloring. It 
is very refreshing and adds much to the meal in which it is served. 

Cherry pRAPPi 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sugar IJ c. juice from canned sour 

1 c. water cherries 

2 lemons Pink coloring 
1 c. cherries, chopped 

Add the sugar to the water and cook until the sugar is dissolved. 
Cool, add the juice of the lemons, the chopped cherries, cherry juice, 
and sufficient pink coloring to make the mixture a pale pink. Freeze. 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 45 



SHERBBTS 

92. Sherbets, according to definition, are flavored water ices, 
but as they are now commonly understood, they have come to have 
a different meaning. Desserts now regarded as sherbets are ices to 
which are added egg whites, gelatine, milk, or any combination of 
these things. The addition of such ingredients improves the texture 
very much, for sherbets are less likely to be granular than ices. 

Sherbets may be made from fruits or fruit juices of any kind, 
and these may be either canned or fresh. Some mixtures of fruits 
are more agreeable than others, and an effort should be made to com- 
bine the fruits that make the best mixtures. When a bland fruit is 
used as the basis for a sherbet, a more acid one should be added to 
improve the flavor. 

93. Milk Sherbet. — The accompanying recipe for milk sher- 
bet may be made as here given, or any desired kind of crushed fruit 
and fruit juice may be added to it to give a distinctive fruit flavor. 
The quantity of lemon used may be decreased slightly, especially if 
the fruit added is sour. If a large amount of unsweetened fruit is 
added, it may be necessary to increase the quantity of sugar. This 
point should be looked after carefully before freezing. 

Milk Sherbet 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

IJ c. sugar 3 lemons 
1 qt. milk 

Mix the sugar, milk, and juice of the lemons. , Stir until the sugar 
is dissolved. The milk, of course, will curd, but when it is frozen 
the curd will have disappeared entirely. Place in a freezer and 
freeze until firm. 

94. Raspberry Sherbet. — If a delightful dessert is desired, 
raspberry sherbet should be made. Fresh raspberries are preferred 
in a dessert of this kind, but canned raspberries may be used if it is 
made out of the raspberry season. 

Raspberry Sherbet 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. milk 1 lemon 

2 c. crushed red raspberries 2 c. sugar 

Mix the milk, raspberries, juice of the lemon, and sugar. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze. 



46 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

95. Pear Sherbet. — Pear juice is, of course, rather bland in 
flavor, but it makes a very appetizing sherbet if it is combined with 
lemon juice. 

Pear Sherbet 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. pear juice 1 c. sugar 

Juice of 3 lemons 1 Tb. gelatine 
2 c. water 1 egg white 

Mix the fruit juices and water and add the sugar. Soak the gela- 
tine in a little cold water and add sufficient boiling water to dissolve 
it. Pour this into the mixture. Freeze until of a mushy consistency. 
Add the beaten egg white and continue to freeze until stiff. 

96. Strawberry Sherbet. — As nearly every one is fond of 
strawberries, a sherbet in which this fruit is used will always be 
appreciated. Fresh strawberries are required in the accompanying 
recipe, and so this dessert must be made during strawberry season. 

Strawberry Sherbet 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. fresh crushed strawberries 1 qt. milk 

1 lemon 2 egg whites 

2 c. sugar 

Crush the strawberries, add them with the juice of the lemon and 
sugar to the milk. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze to a 
mush, add the beaten egg whites, and continue to freeze until the 
sherbet is solid. 

97. Grape Sherbet. — Sherbet in which grape juice is used for 
flavoring makes a change from the usual kind of frozen desserts. 
A little lemon juice is used with the grape juice to make it more tart. 

Grape Sherbet 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. grape juice 1 Tb. gelatine 

2 c. water 2 c. sugar 

2 c. milk 1 lemon 

Mix the grape juice, water, and milk. Soak the gelatine in a little 
cold water and add sufficient boiling water to dissolve. Pour this 
into the liquid and add the sugar and the juice of the lemon. Stir 
until the sugar is dissolved. Place in a freezer and freeze. 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 47 



MOUSSBS, PARPAITS, AND BISCUITS 

98. Nature of Mousses, Farf alts, and. Biscuits. 

Mousses, parfaits, and biscuits differ from other frozen desserts in 
that they are frozen in molds rather than in a freezer. Mousses and 
parfaits are similar in nature, and still there is a slight distinction 
between them. Mousses nearly always contain gelatine and are 
frequently made without eggs, while parfaits are composed largely 
of sirup, eggs, and cream. Biscuits are usually made of a mixture 
similar to mousses and parfaits, but are molded in individual molds. 
Since the desse.rts are frozen without being turned, they must be 
of a heavy, smooth texture, so that they will not be granular when 
they are frozen, as would be the case if a fine mixture were packed 
in a mold and frozen without turning. In many of them, whipped 
cream and beaten eggs are folded in to give lightness. In the ordinary 
manner of freezing, this lightness would be lost, but it is retained 
in this method because the mixture is undisturbed during the freez- 
ing process. Considerable time is required to freeze these heavy 
mixtures ; in fact, if a mousse contains too large a proportion of 
gelatine, there is difficulty in freezing it at all. 

99. Molding Mousses, Parfaits, and Biscuits. — The 

molding of mousses, parfaits, and biscuits, while different from the 
freezing of other frozen desserts, is not a difficult matter. They are 
usually put in a mold of some kind and the mold is then covered with 
a mixture of ice and salt. After the mixture is prepared, crack the 
ice as previously explained, and mix it with salt in the proportion 
of 2 to 1. As a rule, a very large dish pan or other utensil that will 
hold a sufficient quantity of ice to cover the mold well is used for 
freezing the packed mold. Set the mold in the pan of ice and salt 
until it is thoroughly cooled, and then fill it with the mixture to be 
frozen. Often, to improve the appearance, the mold is first lined 
with a frappe or an ice and then filled with the heavier mixture. 
Such an arrangement provides an opportunity for a color scheme 
and at the same time facilitates the removal of the dessert from 
the mold. 

With the mold filled in the desired way, wrap several layers of 
oiled paper in a band around the edge and press the cover down 
tightly to prevent the entrance of any salt water. Then pack the 
closed mold in the pan of ice and salt, being careful to have it com- 



48 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

pletely covered. It may be necessary to pour oS the water and 
repack with ice and salt once during the freezing. Care should be 
taken not to freeze the mixture too long, for, at best, it is hard to 
remove these desserts from the mold and this difficulty is increased 
if they are frozen too hard. 

100. Caramel Mousse. — A melon mold makes a very attrac- 
tive dessert when used for the molding of caramel mousse. After 
being turned out of the mold on a platter and garnished with peaches. 




Fig. 19 

this dessert will appear as in Fig. 19. In addition to being attrac- 
tive, caramel mousse is so delicious that it appeals to practically 

every one. 

Cakamel Mousse 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

f c. sugar i c. watei 

■J c. water 1 egg white 

1 c. evaporated milk 2 tsp. vanilla 

2 tsp. gelatine i tsp. salt 

Make J cupful of the sugar and the i cupful of water into caramel. 
Place the can of evaporated milk into a pan of warm water, allow 
it to come to a boil over the flame, and then cool the can in the 
refrigerator. Soften the gelatine with the i cupful of water and 
then dissolve in the caramel while it is boiling hot. Pour the cold 
milk into a bowl, add the egg white, and beat together vigorously. 
When the gelatine and caramel have become cool and have started 
to set, gradually add the mixture to the milk and egg white, beating 
constantly. If it is desired to hasten the thickening process, set the 
bowl in which the mixture is being made into a pan of ice. Add the 
rest of the sugar, the vanilla, and the salt, and continue beating 



§ 17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 49 

until the whole begins to thicken. Place in a mold and freeze in a 
pan of ice and salt. When frozen, turn from the mold onto a 
platter and garnish with canned peaches in the manner shown. Over 
each serving, pour some of the peach juice, which has been boiled 
down into a thick sirup. 

101. Chocolate Mousse. — If persons to be served are fond 
of chocolate desserts, chocolate mousse should be prepared. This 
may be packed in a mold of any desired kind. 

Chocolate Mousse 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 sq. unsweetened chocolate 3 c. thin cream 

li c. sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. water 1 c. whipping cream 

2 tsp. granulated gelatine 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler. Add the sugar and half of 
the water. Cook over the flame until the mixture is thick and 
smooth. Soften the gelatine in ^ cupful of water, bring the remain- 
ing i cupful of water to the boiling point, and dissolve the gelatine 
in it. Add this to the cooked chocolate and sugar, heat the thin 
cream in a double boiler, and mix the two. Add the vanilla, strain, 
and cool in a pan of ice water. When the mixture begins to thicken, 
whip the heavy cream and fold it in. Mold, pack in ice and salt, and 
freeze. 

102. Banana-and-Apricot Mousse. — Mousses are some- 
times made of fruits, but when this is done, the proper combination 
should be secured. Bananas and apricots combine very well. An 
excellent dessert will therefore result if the directions given in the 
accompanying recipe are carefully followed. 

Banana-and-Apricot Mousse 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. banana puree 1 c. sugar 

1 c. apricot puree 2 tsp. gelatine 

Juice of 1 lemon 1 pt. heavy cream 
1 c. water 

Force ripe bananas through a sieve to make the banana puree. 
Soak and stew dried apricots and force these through a sieve to 
make apricot puree. Mix the two and add the lemon juice. Add 
i cupful of the water to the sugar and cook until a thick sirup is 
formed. Add this to the fruit puree. Soften the gelatine in i cup- 



50 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § IT 

ful of cold water, heat the remaining J cupful to the hoiling point, 
and dissolve the gelatine. Add the gelatine to the fruit mixture and 
place in a pan of ice water to cool. Whip the cream until it is stiff 
and fold this into the fruit mixture when it begins to thicken. Mold, 
pack in ice, and freeze. 

103. Maple Parfait. — Maple sirup may be combined with 
eggs and whipped cream to make maple parfait. As may be judged 
from the ingredients used, this is a very rich dessert; therefore, it 
should not be used in a meal in which the other dishes are hearty. 
Maple parfait makes an excellent dish to serve with cake that is not 
very rich as refreshments for a party. 

Maple Parfait 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 eggs 1 pt. heavy cream 

1 c. maple sirup 

Beat the eggs. Cook the maple sirup for a few minutes only and 
pour this slowly over them. Stir constantly to prevent the curding 
of the eggs. Place in a double boiler and cook until the mixture 
thickens. Cool in a pan of ice water. Whip the cream until it is 
stiff and fold this into the mixture. Mold, pack in ice and salt, 
and freeze. 

104. Cafe Parfait. — Coffee used to flavor parfait makes a 
des.sert that appeals to many. When hot coffee is not included in 
the meal on a warm day, this beverage need not be omitted alto- 
gether, for it may be used to flavor the dessert. 

Caf£ Parfait 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. ground coflfee 3 c. thin cream 

1 c. milk 3 eggs 

1 c. sugar 1 c. heavy cream 

Scald the coffee and milk together for about 20 minutes, strain, 
and add the sugar and thin cream. Stir until the sugar dissolves. 
Beat the eggs and add them to the warm mixture. Cook together 
until the eggs have thickened and then cool. Whip the heavy cream, 
fold this into the custard, and freeze. Serve with sweetened 
whipped cream. 

105. Strawberry Angel Parfait. — ^As the name implies, 
strawberry angel parfait is a very dainty dessert. Nothing more 



§17 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 51 

delightful can be made during the season when fresh strawberries 
can be obtained. It is suitable for serving at the conclusion of a 
meal, but it is especially satisfactory for a party or other social 
affair. 

Strawberry Angel Pasfait 
(Suiiicient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sugar 1 pt. whipping cream 

1 c. boiling water 1 c. crushed strawberries 

Whites of 2 eggs 2 tsp. vanilla 

Boil the sugar and water until the sirup threads. Beat the egg 
whites and pour the hot sirup over them, beating rapidly. Cool. 
Whip the cream and fold it in, add the crushed strawberries and 
vanilla, and freeze in a mold. 

106. Canton Parfait. — Preserved Canton ginger is used for 
the flavoring of Canton parfait. The sirup that comes with the 
ginger is also used in the preparation of this dessert. Canton par- 
fait is somewhat of a departure from the ordinary dessert, but is 
favored by many persons. 

Canton Parfait 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sugar i c. sirup from ginger 
i c. water 1 tsp. vanilla 

4 eggs 2 Tb. lemon juice 

2 c. thin cream 1 c. whipping cream 
i c. preserved Canton ginger 

Cook the sugar and water together until they form a thin sirup. 
Beat the eggs, pour the hot sirup over them, and add the thin cream. 
Cook in a double boiler until the eggs have thickened. Cool, add 
the ginger chopped into small pieces, the ginger sirup, vanilla, and 
lemon juice. Fold into this the heavy cream whipped until it is stiff. 
Freeze in a mold. 

107. Biscuit Tortoni. — Something entirely different in the 
nature of a frozen dessert can be had by preparing biscuit tortoni. 
This is frozen in a mold as are parfaits and mousses, but instead 
of the entire mold being served, it is packed in paper cases, and one 
of these served to each person. Macaroons are used to flavor this 
dessert, and a layer of the crumbs is sprinkled over the top of each 
serving. 



52 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



§i; 



Biscuit Tortoni 

(Sufficient to Serve SixJ 

1 c. sugar 1 c. heavy cream 

•J c. boiling water 1 c. macaroon crumbs 

3 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 pt. thin cream 

Cook the sugar and water until it threads. Beat the eggs and add 
the sirup to the beaten eggs. Then add the thin cream, return to 
the fire, and cook until the mixture thickens. Set aside to cool. 
Beat the heavy cream until it is stiff, and fold this into the custard. 
Make macaroon crumbs by drying macaroons and beating them until 
they are quite fine. Add 1 cupful of these crumbs and the vanilla 
to the parfait mixture, place in a mold and freeze. When frozen, 
remove from the mold, pack in paper cases, cover with a layer of 
macaroon crumbs, and serve. 



MOIiDING FROZEN DBSSERTS 



108. After desserts have been frozen in the various ways that 
have been explained, they are often molded and then allowed to 
stand in ice and salt until they are well set. In this way, many 
attractive desserts can be made and numerous color schemes carried 




Fig. 20 

out. Some of the molds that are used for this purpose are shown 
in Fig. 20. The one in the center is known as a melon mold, and it 
is the one used in the preparation of the caramel mousse shown in 
Fig. 19. It may also be used for the molding of desserts that are 
already frozen. The mold to the left is known as a brick mold, and 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



53 




Fig. 21 



is much used for Neapolitan ice cream, while the small one to the 
right is an individual mold used for individual serving. Both the 
top and the bottom of the brick mold are in the form of covers that 
are removable. Directions for the 
molding of several desserts of this 
kind are here given and other 
frozen mixtures may be molded in 
a similar way. 

109. Neapolitan Ice 
Cream. — A combination of an ice 
and two kinds of ice cream, 
usually of different colors, makes 
what is known as Neapolitan ice 
cream. Various ways of combin- 
ing these are in practice; for 
instance, chocolate ice cream and 
strawberry ice cream may be combined with lemon ice, or strawberry 
and vanilla ice cream and orange ice may be used together. The ice 
creams and ices must, of course, be thoroughly frozen before they 
are packed in the mold. 

Prepare the mold by placing a piece of oiled paper over the bottom 

cover and setting the mold in this. 
Then put a layer of ice cream of 
one color into the mold, as shown 
in Fig. 21, pack on top of this the 
second color of ice cream, and put 
the ice on top, or pack the ice be- 
tween the two kinds of ice cream. 
Pack each layer tight and push 
the frozen mixtures well into the 
corners so that there will be no 
holes. Cover the top well with 
another piece of oiled paper, as 
shown in Fig. 22, place the cover 
on, and pack the mold into ice and 
salt, using a proportion of 2 to 1. 
Allow this to stand until it is well set. To serve, remove from the 
mold, cut slices from the brick, and place on plates, preferably those 
covered with paper doilies. 

WI— C4— 9 




Fig. 22 



54 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS § 17 

110. Boraebe Glace. — ^A combination of an ice and a mousse 
or parfait mixture makes a delightful dessert known as Bomebe 
glace. Contrasting colors should be used if possible in order to 
make a beautiful dessert. This is usually made in a melon-shaped 
mold, but it may be made in a round mold, such as a tin can, if the 
can is perfectly water-tight. 

Line the mold with an ice and fill the center with a mousse 
or a parfait. Place in a mixture of ice and salt and freeze. When 
it has become solid, turn out the entire mold on a suitable dish and 
serve it at the table. 



SERVING FROZEN DESSERTS 

111. Frozen desserts offer an opportunity for variety in serving, 
because they occur in so many different forms. The method of 
serving depends, of course, on the nature of the frozen dessert, but 
any one of them that may be served from a large plate or dish is 
always attractive. This may be done, as has been explained, if the 
frozen mixtures are molded either as a single kind or as a combi- 
nation of two or more kinds. 

112. To remove a molded dessert from the mold before serving, 
first clean the mold thoroughly of ice and salt and wipe it dry with a 
cloth. Then remove the cover and allow it to stand for a few 
minutes in a warm place. This treatment will cause the outside 
of the frozen mixture to melt slightly and permit it to slip easily 
from the mold. A warm cloth or warm water is sometimes used 
to melt the surface, and it accomplishes the work more quickh- ; but 
when the mold is so treated it is likely not to look so well. As soon 
as the surface is a trifle soft, turn the mold out on a dish and serve 
it immediately. 

113. Receptacles of numerous kinds are in use for individual 
servings of frozen desserts. Slices of ice cream cut from a brick 
mold and individual molds are usually served on a small plate about 
the size of a bread-and-butter plate. It may be placed directly on 
the plate, or a paper doily of the proper size may be put on the 
plate and the frozen dessert set on this. Sherbet glasses are much 
used for individual portions and are very attractive for this purpose, 
especially when they have long stems. Paper cases, such as those 
shown in Fig. 23, also make excellent receptacles for individual 



§17 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



55 



servings. They may be plain or fancy and are generally used to 
carry out a color scheme or a decorative idea. Meringues having 




Fig. 23 

the bottom removed and the center scooped out are sometimes used 
as cases in which to serve ice cream. These are made of egg white 
and sugar and baked in the oven. They are not difficult to prepare, 
as the recipes for them in Cakes, Cookies, and Puddings, Part 2, 
explain, and they are often gar- 
nished with whipped cream. All 
such receptacles are placed on a 
small plate either with or without 
a paper doily of the right size. 

114. It is a little more diffi- 
cult to serve desserts frozen in 
a freezer than those which are 
molded. However, there are 
numerous ways of garnishing 
and serving such desserts to add 
to their attractiveness. Candied 
fruits, such as cherries and pine- 
apple, candied violet, mint, and 
rose leaves, maraschino and F'o. 24 

creme-de-menthe cherries, fresh strawberries, preserved cherries, 
strawberries, and other fruits, sliced peaches or bananas, whipped 
cream, toasted coconut, chopped nuts of different kinds, and various 




56 COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS §17 

kinds of fruit sirups may all be used to advantage with these desserts. 
Fig. 24 shows ice cream served in a stemmed sherbet glass with grape 
juice and garnished with whipped cream and a maraschino cherry. 
Then, too, a chocolate sirup made by cooking sugar, water, and 
chocolate or sugar, milk, and chocolate may be served hot or cold 
over ice cream and similar desserts. Another excellent dip is made 
of any kind of fruit juice thickened with sugar. The marshmallow 
whip explained in Art. 54 may be made in any desirable color and 
then used alone or with a dip as a garnish for ice cream. 



COLD AND FROZEN DESSERTS 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Discuss briefly the value of desserts with meals. 

(2) What points should be considered in the selection of desserts? 

(3) What is the value of an attractive appearance in a dessert? 

(4) (o) How do the general rules of cookery apply in the preparation of 
desserts? (6) Give an example. 

(5) Of what value to desserts is: (o) a bland sauce? (6) a highly seasoned 
sauce ? 

(6) (o) Mention the proportion of eggs and milk for a custard. 
(6) Describe the method of making and baking plain custard. 

(7) (o) Give a common test for determining when baked custard is done. 
(6) Give the test for soft custard. 

(8) (o) How should pearl tapioca be prepared for cooking? (6) What 
should be its appearance when it has been cooked? 

(9) How is gelatine prepared when it is to be used for desserts? 

(10) Give the theory for the freezing of desserts. 

(11) Give the proportion of ice to salt for: (o) ice cream; (&) sherbets; 
(c) ices; (d) frappes; (e) frozen punch; (/) frozen desserts that are packed 
and not turned to freeze. 

(12) Describe the procedure in getting a mixture ready to freeze. 

(13) To what is the increase in quantity during the freezing of a mixture 
due? 

(14) How does the rate of speed in turning the dasher affect the freezing 
of a dessert? 

(15) How can you determine when the mixture in a freezer is sufficiently 
frozen ? 

(16) What should be done in making a frozen dessert when the freezing 
has been completed? 

(17) State the advantages and disadvantages of a vacuum freezer 

(18) What are: (o) ices? (fc) sherbets? 

(19) How is a mold of ice cre^m packed? 

(20) Describe an original way of serving ice cream. 

§17 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 

(PART 1) 



CAKE AND PUDDING MIXTURES IN THE DIET 

1. Cake is a mixture of flour, eggs, sugar, butter, and liquid 
that is baked in the oven in a variety of forms and distinguished by 
a tender texture and a sweet flavor. Closely allied to cake mixtures 
proper are many others, including cookies, small cakes, puddings, 
etc. While these differ from cakes in some respects, they are similar 
in use, ingredients, or methods of preparation. Because of this 
similarity, a number of these related mixtures are taken up in con- 
nection with cakes. 

2. Foods of this class, which are usually served as dessert, are 
for the most part considered as luxuries and, of course, are not 
used so extensively in the diet as other classes of foods. However, 
sweet food is required to a certain extent in each person's diet, and 
it may be obtained in this agreeable form without overbalancing the 
food account if a little economy is practiced elsewhere. Thus, a 
small quantity of cake or pudding that is light, not too rich, and 
properly made may be served without injury to most persons as a 
dessert or as an accompaniment to a dessert. For children, the less 
rich and sweet mixtures, such as cookies, are preferable to rich cake 
and very sweet confections and may be fed to them occasionally. 

3. Because of the almost unlimited variation in the proportion 
of ingredients, considerable variety exists in desserts of this kind. 
Cakes range from those made with only eggs for leavening to those 
containing very few eggs and having the standard proportion of 
other leavening agents. For instance, there is sponge cake, which 
contains no shortening and no leavening except eggs, in contrast 
with butter cake, which has much shortening or little, as the case 
may be, and requires proportionate quantities of flour and leavening 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL. PUBLISHING COMPANY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§18 



2 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

other than eggs. Then there are soft, rich cookies containing short- 
ening and sugar and the harder, less rich ones containing a greater 
proportion of flour. 

4. In addition to cakes and puddings proper, there are many 
mixtures that can scarcely be classed as cakes at all. A few of them, 
such as meringues, are so sweet and delicate that they could be 
considered as confections, but they are discussed in connection with 
cakes because they take the place of cake in the meal. The peculiar 
pastes used for the making of cream puffs and eclairs are not in 
reality cakes, nor are they real pastry, but because they are served 
as desserts and belong somewhere in this class, they are included 
here. Doughnuts and crullers are perhaps more often thought of as 
quick breads than as cakes. However, the mixtures used for them 
are sweet. They differ from the mixtures for cakes only in being less 
rich, but by the peculiar method of their preparation in deep fat 
these foods become richer than the majority of cakes. Then there 
are a few varieties of cakes made with yeast which are related to 
cake in some respects and can well be taken up in this connection. 

5. The proportions of liquid to flour for the various kinds of cake 
mixtures do not differ materially from those of the batters and 
doughs given in Hot Breads. Still, the increased amount of sugar, 
eggs, and shortening must always be considered, for these ingre- 
dients make considerable variation in the general proportions. All 
that is said in Hot Breads concerning leavening agents and the pro- 
portions in which they are used applies with equal force to the 
making of cakes. 

6. To be able to make foods of this nature well is one of the 
triumphs of the modem housewife. But this accomplishment is not 
beyond the limitations of any woman who masters the principles of 
cookery and diligently applies them to this part of the subject. In 
addition to making desserts that are merely palatable, she can, with 
a little practice, learn to decorate these foods, particularly cakes, 
both attractively and artistically. When she is equipped with such 
knowledge, she will be able to present her family with many varieties 
of this pleasing dessert 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



CAKES 



INGREDIENTS USED IN CAKES 



NECESSARY INGREDIEWTS 

7. Quality of Ingredients. — The materials used in the 
making of cakes should be of as good quality as possible, and when 
put into the cake they should be in the best condition. In this phase 
of cookery, as in all others, better results are obtained when good 
materials are used. Besides possessing this general characteristic, 
certain of the ingredients require special attention. 

8. Fat for Cakes. — The fat used for cakes must necessarily 
be of an agreeable flavor, and for this reason butter is the kind in 
general use. There are, of course, other fats that may be used to 
advantage either as part or all of the fat required. However, when 
another fat is to take the place of butter, one that is practically flavor- 
less should be chosen. Oleomargarine of various kinds, Crisco, and 
even some of the liquid fats are very satisfactory, especially in the 
making of cookies. 

9. Sweetening for Cakes. — Numerous varieties of sugar may 
be employed in the making of cakes. Probably granulated sugar is 
used more frequently than any other, but brown sugar, soft sugar, 
and confectioner's sugar all have a place in cake making. Any of 
these may be used in the preparation of icing as well as for an ingre- 
dient of the cake itself. 

10. Leavening for Cakes. — An important source of leaven- 
ing in cakes is eggs. For cakes to be most satisfactory, the eggs 
employed should be strictly fresh. During the season when they are 
scarce and consequently high in price, recipes that require only a 
few eggs should be prepared. 

Baking powder, which is also an important leavening in cakes, 
should be of an approved brand that can be relied on to do the work 
expected of it. Soda and cream of tartar are sometimes used 



4 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

together, and, again, soda is used alone with molasses or sour milk. 
For every 3 eggs in a cake mixture, 1 teaspoonful of the baking 
powder called for in the recipe may be omitted. Altitude affects 
the amount of baking powder required in cakes. The quantity 
given in the recipes is correct for altitudes varying from sea level 
to i mile high, but it should be reduced one-fifth at an elevation of 
1 mile, and three-tenths at an elevation of 7,000 feet. 

11. Liquid for Cakes. — Milk, as a rule, is the liquid used in 
cake making. It may be skim milk or whole milk, it may consist of 
part water and part milk, or it may be entirely water, depending on the 
kind of cake. When a large number of eggs are used in a cake, very 
little liquid is employed. Sometimes the liquid consists of molasses 
and sour milk used together, separately, or with some other liquid. 

12. Flour for Cakes. — The flour used in the preparation of 
cakes may be bread, pastry, or blend flour, depending on the kind 
of cake desired. While a blend, or an all-purpose, flour makes a 
satisfactory cake, pastry flour, which is milled from soft winter 
wheat, or better still, cake flour, is more nearly ideal as the excess 
gluten is removed, and it is much finer milled; hence it produces a 
lighter, finer, more delicate cake. \\^heat flour is the kind that is 
generally used, but other flours, such as white corn meal, rice flour, 
and potato flour, though producing a drying effect, are sometimes 
combined with wheat. A tablespoonful of com starch sifted with 
the bread or hard wheat flour is an improvement over straight bread 
flour, but as it has a drying effect, it is not to be recommended. 



MISCELLANEOUS INGREDIENTS 

13. In addition to the ingredients that have just been mentioned, 
there are numerous other ingredients that are often used in cakes. 
Some of them are used for the purpose of adding flavor and variety 
to otherwise plain cakes, while many of them are used entirely for 
the purpose of flavoring. These ingredients, like the necessary ones, 
should be of excellent quality. It is essential that their use and 
value be understood, for by means of them pleasing variet\' may 
often be secured with just a plain-cake recipe. For instance, a plain 
cake as a foundation may be varied by using with it raisins, nuts, 
spices, coconut, preserved fruits of various kinds, or flavoring of 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 5 

some sort. To be able to use these ingredients properly, it is well 
for the housewife to be familiar with their nature and the treatment 
that must be given to them before they can be used. 

14. Currants and Raisins. — As has already been learned, 
currants and raisins are varieties of dried grapes. Currants do not 
contain seeds, but raisins come in both seeded and seedless varieties, 
and either of these are satisfactory for cake making. Currants 
are often dry and hard, and as they are usually very dirty they 
require considerable cleaning to prevent them from being gritty 
when the cake is eaten. Because of these facts, currants are not 
very satisfactory and consequently are usually replaced by raisins, 
which may be used, either chopped or whole, for any of the purposes 
currants are used. If small raisins are desired, sultanas, which are 
a small, light-colored, and mild-flavored variety, are the best to 
purchase. These two fruits increase the food value of the mixtures 
to which they are added. Raisins, being extremely high in carbo- 
hydrate, are especially valuable as an ingredient. 

Before currants and raisins are used in cake mixtures, they should 
be thoroughly cleaned. To clean them, place them in a colander, and 
then turn a stream of cold water over them and rub them between 
the fingers until all dirt or other foreign material is removed. When 
clean, allow them to dry as thoroughly as possible before using them. 

15. Miscellaneous Fruits. — Fruits other than currants and 
raisins are often used in the preparation of cakes and puddings. 
These, which may be dried, canned, or preserved, include dates, figs, 
citron, apricots, prunes, cherries, plums, pears, peaches, and pine- 
apple. Candied orange and lemon peel are generally used in the 
preparation of fruit cake. All of these fruits add food value and 
flavor. 

A certain amount of preparation must be given to fruits before 
they can be used in cakes. All of them except the canned fruits 
must be thoroughly washed, and some of them, such as dates, must 
have the stones removed. Those which are very hard, as, for 
instance, figs and citron, may be steamed to make them soft. The 
steaming may be done by placing the fruit in a colander over a 
vessel of boiling water and covering the colander to retain the steam. 
When treated in this manner, these fruits will cut more easily and 
will be softer and more moist in the finished cake. 



6 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

16. Nuts. — In the making of cakes, nuts of almost any variety 
may be utilized. Not only do they add a large amount of food 
value in the form of fat, but they increase the richness of the cake 
and provide a very delightful flavor. The nut meats are generally 
too large in size to be used whole, and so they must be made smaller 
before they are added to the mixture. They may be put through a 
chopper, but usually it is preferable to chop them with a chopping 
knife in a bowl or cut them into pieces with a paring knife. 

It should be remembered, however, that the use of nuts in a cake 
adds greatly to the cost, for, with the exception of peanuts, they are 
rather expensive, particularly when they are bought shelled. As 
can readily be understood, both the nuts themselves and the labor 
involved in removing the shells must be paid for. The cost, of 
course, may be reduced by buying the nuts in the shells and shelling 
them at home. 

17. Coconut. — The flesh of the coconut when shredded is much 
used in the preparation of cakes, being put in the cake mixture or 
used in connection with icing between the layers and over the top 
layer. Coconut may be purchased already shredded in boxes or 
cans, or it may be obtained in the shells and then shredded at home. 
That which is prepared commercially either is dried, when it will 
be found to be somewhat hard, or is mixed with the milk of the 
coconut or with glycerine, which keeps it soft. Much more satis- 
factory coconut can be secured by procuring a coconut, cracking 
open the shell, removing the flesh, and then grating or grinding it. 
Coconut of this kind will be found to be very delicious and will make 
excellent cake. In case coconut becomes dry and hard before it is 
used, it can be softened by steaming it in the manner in which dried 
fruits are steamed 

18. Ctocolate and Cocoa. — Materials that are much used for 
flavoring cake mixtures and icings are chocolate and cocoa. Choco- 
late is sold in pound and half-pound cakes in both the bitter and the 
sweetened form, while cocoa is sold in packages or bottles in powder 
form. The bitter chocolate gives the greatest amount of food value 
and flavor and is therefore used the most. Cocoa is neither so 
strong in flavor nor so high in food value as chocolate, but it can be 
substituted for chocolate when this is not in supply. 

19. Spices. — In many kinds of cake, spices are needed to give 
the desired flavor. When they are to be used for this purpose, they 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 7 

should be obtained in the ground form and then mixed with the dry 
ingredients. The principal varieties used in cakes are cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg, and allspice. Sometimes a combination of all these 
is added to the mixture, but very often just a little cinnamon or a 
mild flavoring of nutmeg is all that is required. When spices are 
purchased, the best possible brands should be selected, because these 
things are very easily adulterated with other materials and adul- 
terated spices have not so much strength as the better kinds. 

20. Flavoring- Extracts. — In cake preparation, almost more 
than in any other part of cookery, flavoring extracts have a place. 
They are used in plain cakes that do not contain any of the other 
miscellaneous ingredients, and some of them are also added to many 
cake mixtures and icings that contain fruits, nuts, spices, chocolate, 
etc. Vanilla, which is an alcoholic extract of the vanilla bean, is 
probably used more frequently than any other flavoring. The alco- 
holic extracts of orange, lemon, almond, pistachio, and various other 
flavors are also valuable in cake making. When any of these flavor- 
ings are used in cakes, it should be remembered that much of their 
strength is lost through the baking. Therefore, in order that the 
cake may be well flavored after it is baked, a comparatively large 
quantity of flavoring must be used. 



GENERAL CLASSES OF CAKES 

21. Although many varieties of cake can be made, they may all 
be put into two general classes : sponge cake and butter cake. These 
classes may also be regarded as cake made without butter and cake 
made with butter, for it is the presence or absence of fat in a cake 
mixture that makes the difference in the method of mixing the 
ingredients and determines the texture after baking. While there 
are many true examples of each of these classes, it must be remem- 
bered that there are also numerous variations of the two which must 
be placed in either one or the other of these classes. For instance, a 
true sponge cake does not contain baking powder, but some recipes 
for sponge cake are given in which baking powder is included. Such 
recipes must be regarded as variations of sponge cake, for they are 
more similar to that than to butter cake. 

The ingredients are not, however, the only source of difference 
between these two general classes of cakes. They also differ as to 



8 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

the method used to combine the ingredients, the correct oven tem- 
perature for baking, and the length of time required for the baking. 
All these differences must be thoroughly understood if successful 
cake making is to be the result. 



GENERAL EQUIPMENT FOR CAKE MAKING 

22. The different forms of cake require, of course, different 
utensils, and these are taken up in connection with the preparation 
of each class. However, it is well for the housewife to be familiar 
at the outset with the general equipment used in the making of cakes 
and similar foods. 

23. The utensils required for the mixing of the ingredients are 
somewhat similar to those used in the preparation of hot breads. 
An earthen bowl is preferable for the mixing of the batter. If this 
kind is not available, an enamel one rather than an aluminum one 
should be used. When cake dough is stirred in an aluminum dish, 
the sides usually become darkened and are liable to discolor the 
mixture. 

Spoons for the mixing of the ingredients are also important. 
Enameled spoons are not very satisfactory, because the enamel is 
likely to chip off the edges. Aluminum spoons may be used. In 
fact, they have lightness in weight which recommends their use, but 
if much stirring is done, a slight discoloration is apt to occur from 
the spoon. Wooden spoons or spatulas are found to be the most 
satisfactory for this purpose. They are light in weight, cause no 
discoloration, and do not chip nor wear off. 

24. Two measuring cups, one for the dry ingredients and one 
for the wet materials, should be provided, as they will prove a con- 
venience. A tablespoon, a teaspoon, and a case knife are also 
necessary for measuring. To remove any foreign material from 
the flour and at the same time make it light, a flour sifter is required. 

25. Certain utensils are required for the beating of the eggs 
used in cakes. If they are to be beaten separately before being put 
into the mixture, a bowl and a rotary egg beater should be provided. 
In case the eggs are to be separated and the whites beaten alone, a 
flat dish, such as a platter or a soup plate, and an egg whip are the 
most satisfactory. 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 9 

26. The kind of pan required for the baking of cakes depends 
entirely on the kind of cake that is to be prepared. Fig. 1 shows 
the types of pans for which the housewife will have the most use. 
The square pan at the left is suitable for any kind of cake that is 
to be baked in the form of a loaf. In front of this is a layer-cake 
pan with a removable bottom. This type of layer-cake pan is the 
most satisfactory, for the cake may be lifted right out of the pan 
rim on the cake-pan bottom and the bottom then easily removed 




Fig. 1 

from the cake after it has been placed on the cooler. Of course, 
pans without false bottoms may also be used successfully with a 
little care. The large flat pan at the right is a pan for the baking 
of all kinds of cookies. On this is shown a round pan having a 
removable bottom, to the center of which is attached a tube. Sponge 
cakes, although they may be baked in loaf -cake pans, are generally 
baked in a pan of this kind. Pans for individual cakes range in size 
from large muffin pans, like the one shown at the right front, to pans 
that produce cakes very small in size. 



PROCEDURE IN CAKE MAKING 



PREPARATION OF INGREDIENTS 

27. In cake making, as in the preparation of other dishes, a 
systematic plan must be followed if good results are desired. A 
housewife cannot expect to have a successful cake if she has to stop 
during the mixing to get some of the ingredients or some of the 
utensils ready. Before the mixing is begun, all the utensils and 



10 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

ingredients should be collected and any of the ingredients that 
require special preparation should be prepared. Then, if the recipe 
is correct, if the ingredients are measured accurately and combined 
correctly, and if the baking is done properly, success in cake making 
is assured. 

28. The first thing to be done, when a cake is to be made, is to 
read the recipe to determine just what is required and to find out 
whether all the ingredients called for are in supply. With this done, 
all the utensils should be placed conveniently on the table and the 
ingredients collected and measured. Some authorities advise the 
weighing of the ingredients in cake because weight is always 
regarded as more accurate than measure. If a recipe calls for 
weights, it will be found easier to use them than to try to change 
them to measure; but when a recipe requires measures, and does 
not state weights, it would be unwise to attempt to use scales for 
measuring. 

29. The measuring of the fat often requires a little attention. 
For instance, if only ^ cupful of butter or some other fat is required, 
it may perhaps be more convenient to measure it with a tablespoon 
than with a cup. Otherwise, unless the recipe calls for melted fat, 
the fat should be measured by pressing it down tight into the cup until 
it reaches the mark indicating the required amount. If the fat is 
hard and cold, as is usually the case when it is first taken from the 
refrigerator or other cold place, it will be difficult to cream. A 
good plan is to let the fat stand until it is 70 degrees Fahrenheit, or 
ordinary room temperature, before the mixing is begun. 

30. The dry ingredients used in cakes include the sugar, flour, 
baking powder, spices, etc. Granulated sugar seldom requires any 
preparation except measuring. However, sugar other than granu- 
lated, particularly brown sugar and pulverized sugar, should be 
rolled with a rolling pin and then sifted in order to free it from any 
lumps it might contain. Flour should be sifted once before measur- 
ing and again with the baking powder, or soda and cream of tartar, 
and salt in order to mix them. Other dry ingredients, such as spices 
and occasionally pulverized sugar, may also be sifted with the 
flour and other dry ingredients. If the dry leavening agent appears 
to be lumpy when the cover is removed from the can, it should be 
worked smooth with a spoon and sifted before it is measured. A 
very small mesh wire sieve may be used for this purpose. 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 11 

31. The liquid should be measured by pouring it into the mea- 
suring cup with the cup stationary and level. The eggs, which are, of 
course, one of the liquid ingredients, should be neither broken until 
just before they are to be used, nor beaten until the mixture is 
brought to the point where the eggs are to be added. If the whites 
are to be used for the preparation of icing after the cake is baked, 
they should be kept in a cool place until they are beaten. 

32. Fruits, nuts, and other miscellaneous ingredients should be 
prepared before the mixing of the cake is begun ; that is, they should 
be cleansed, cut, ground, or chopped, as the case may be, so that it 
will not be necessary to stop the mixing of the cake to do any of 
this work. If they are to be dredged with flour, this may be done at 
the time they are prepared. 

PREPARATION OP PANS 

33. The pan or pans in which the cake is to be baked should also 
be prepared before the mixing is begun. The treatment to be given 
to the pans depends to a large extent on the cake that is to be put 
into them. Butter cake or any of its variations requires greased 
pans, whereas sponge cake should be put in pans that are not greased. 

34. Butter-Cake Pans. — The fat used to grease pans of any 
kind should be a clean, tasteless fat. Less will be required to cover 
the surface of the pan if an oil rather than a solid fat is used. In 
case butter is selected for this purpose, it should first be melted and 
then allowed to stand until the clear fat that rises to the top can be 
gathered. However, fats that are less expensive than butter are 
perfectly satisfactory for greasing pans, and so butter should not be. 
used unless other fats are not available. 

35. Muffin pans or individual pans of any kind should first 
be greased with a brush or a small piece of clean paper dipped 
into the fat that is to be used, and then dusted with flour. The flour 
should cover the surface of the pan, but should be shaken out so 
that no more than just a film remains over the grease. A brush may 
also be used for the greasing of other pans, but it is not recom- 
mended, as the fat is apt to become rancid in the brush, and if it is 
cleansed as often as is necessary to keep it in good condition, a great 
deal of fat, which clings to the brush, will be wasted. A small piece 
of paper dipped in fat will be found much more economical and 
quite as satisfactory for this work. 

W I-C 4-lfl ' 



12 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 



36. Loaf-cake pans, that is, pans that make cake in the form of 
a loaf, should first be greased and then, as shown in Fig. 2, have the 
bottom covered with a piece of oiled paper or light wrapping paper 
that may be oiled after being put into the pan. This paper should 
be the exact width of the bottom of the pan and should be long 
enough to cover the bottom and extend up to the top of each end. 
The sides of the pan need not be covered, as it is a simple matter to 
loosen the cake from them with a knife. When the cake is turned 

out of the pan, the paper will 
stick to the cake, but it may be 
easily removed by merely pulling 
it off. 

3 7 . Layer-cake pans, whether 
they have false bottoms or not, 
should be greased and then cov- 
ered with a light layer of flour, 
just as is done with individual 
pans. If such a pan does not 
have a false bottom and the cake 
seems to stick to it, the best plan 
is to turn the pan upside down and place a cold damp towel on it for 
a few minutes. This will moisten the surface of the bottom suffi- 
ciently to permit the pan to be removed without difficulty. 

38. Sponge-Cake Pans. — The preparation of sponge-cake 
pans differs from that for butter-cake pans because of the nature of 
the cake. No grease of any sort should be applied to the surface of 
sponge-cake pans. If desired, they may be dusted with flour, but 
even this is not necessary, as very satisfactory results are obtained 
by putting the cake mixture into the bare pan. 




Fic. 2 



SPONGE CAKES AND THEIR PREPARATION 



METHOD OP PROCEDURE 

39. With the ingredients and utensils gathered and prepared, 
the mixing of the cake may be begun at once. The method of mix- 
ing depends entirely on the kind of cake that is being made, sponge 
cake involving a different procedure from butter cake. These 
method-s should be thoroughly mastered, so that there will be no 



118 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



13 



danger of confusing them and so that the recipe will not need to be 
referred to constantly during the mixing of the cake. When an 
ingredient that is not usually included in the ordinary butter or 
sponge cake is found in the recipe, the way in which this ingredient 
is added to the mixture should be carefully noted, so that no mistake 
will be made. 

40. Nature of Sponge Cake. — A true sponge cake contains 
nothing besides eggs, sugar, flour, and flavoring material. The eggs, 
sugar, and flour are used in equal amounts, the eggs and sugar being 
about the same by weight or measure and the flour half as much by 
weight. For instance, a successful sponge cake can be made with a 
cupful each of eggs, sugar, and flour. To these ingredients the 
juice of one-half lemon is usually added, and sometimes the grated 
rind of the lemon is used also. The simple variation in sponge-cake 




Fic. 3 



mixtures is the addition of liquid, which is usually water, some- 
times cold and sometimes hot. In the true sponge cake, eggs supply 
all the leavening, but it is possible to economize in the number of 
eggs by using leavening of some other kind, such as soda and cream 
of tartar or baking powder. The texture of a sponge cake in which 
leavening other than eggs is used is not so good as that of the true 
sponge cake, but if this leavening is used discreetly, it is possible to 
decrease the number of eggs somewhat without sacrificing too much 
in texture. However, it is useless to try to make a good sponge cake 
with fewer than three eggs, for the other ingredients — flour, sugar, 
leavening, and liquid — are not sufiacient to produce a delicious cake. 

41. Combining tlie Ingredients. — The ingredients required 
for a true sponge cake and the utensils used in making such a cake 
are shown in Fig. 3. As will be observed, both the utensils and the 



14 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 




Fic. 4 



materials are so placed on the table in front of the one who is to 

make the cake that the 
work may be performed 
with the least amount of 
effort. 

If the whole eggs are 
to be used, break them 
into the mixing bowl and 
beat them with a rotary 
egg beater, as shown in 
Fig. 4, until they are 
thick and lemon-colored. 
In case only the whites 
are to be used, beat them 
with an egg whip on a 
flat dish or in a large 
bowl until they are stiff. 
To the beaten egg, add 
the sugar a little at a 

time, as shown in Fig. 5, beating it into the egg with the rotary 

beater. Either granulated or pulverized sugar may be used, but 

pulverized is the better 

of the two, because it is 

lighter. When the sugar 

is added at this time, sift 

the flour several times, 

and, as in Fig. 6, add it 

last, folding it into the 

mixture with a wire egg 

whip. However, if it is 

desired to do so, the 

sugar and flour may be 

sifted together and 

added at the same time, 

or both the sugar and 

flour may be sifted sepa- 
rately and then added to 

the eggs alternately. 

Then add the flavoring 

and, if liquid is to be used, put it in at this time. In case leavening 




iMG. 5 



§18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



15 




Fig. 6 



is supplied, sift it in with the flour. The mixture is then ready for 

the pan. Place the un- 

greased pan conveniently 

on the table and then, as 

shown in Fig. 7, pour 

the mixture from the 

bowl into it. Scrape the 

sides of the bowl well, 

so that there will be no 

more waste than is 

necessary. 

42. Baking 
Sponge Cake. — As 

soon as the mixture has 
been poured into the 
pan, set it in a moderate 
oven to bake. The tem- 
perature should be about 

300 degrees Fahrenheit when the cake is put into the oven, but it 
may be gradually increased to 350 or 400 degrees. If the tempera- 
ture cannot be deter- 
mined, the paper test 
may be applied. This 
consists in placing a 
piece of white paper in 
the oven. To be right 
for sponge cake, the heat 
should turn this paper a 
moderate brown in 4 
minutes. The time for 
baking depends, of 
course, on the size of the 
cake, but usually more 
time is required than for 
butter cake. 

In putting the cake 
into the oven, set it on 
the lower rack, as here 
the mixture will be in a position to come up with the heat of the 




Fig. 7 



16 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 



oven, which, as is known, has a general tendency to rise. If it is 
placed on the top rack where the heated air is necessarily passing 
down toward the outside walls because of the circulation that is 




Fig. 8 

established, there will be a certain amount of pressure on top of the 
cake which will prevent it from rising. Allow the cake to remain 
on the lower rack until it has risen to its fullest extent, and then, if 
necessary, remove it to the top rack for browning. 

43. Several tests to determine whether sponge cake is ready to 
remove from the oven can be applied. One of these consists in 
observing the cake in the pan. After it has risen as much as it will 
rise, a small amount of shrinkage will, as shown in Fig. 8, loosen 
the cake from the sides of the pan. Another test, which is known 




Fig. 9 



as the finger test, consists in making a depression in the center of 
the cake. If the cake is baked sufficiently, it will spring back to fill 
the depression, but if it is not done, the depression will remciin. 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 17 

44. Removing Sponge Cake From Pan, — When sponge 
cake is taken from the oven, it requires different treatment from 
that of butter cake. Instead of removing it from the pan imme- 
diately, turn it upside down on a cooler to sweat, as shown in 
Fig. 9. Allow it to remain in this way until it has shrunken suffi- 
ciently from the pan, and then lift off the pan. If necessary, the 
cake may become completely cold before the pan is taken from it. 
Close adherence to these directions will prevent any trouble that 
may arise in removing sponge cake from the pan. 



RECIPES FOR SPONGE CAKE AND ITS VARIATIONS 

45. Plain Sponge Cake. — The ideal proportions for a sponge 
cake are given in the accompanying recipe and upon these propor- 
tions the other recipes are based. 

Plain Sponge Cake 
4 eggs 1 c. flour 

1 c. sugar Juice and rind of -J lemon 

Beat the eggs until they are thick and lemon-colored. Add the 
sugar gradually and continue to beat. Sift the flour several times 
and fold into the mixture. When the ingredients are thoroughly 
mixed, add the grated rind and the juice of the lemon, pour into a 
sponge-cake pan, and bake. 

46. Cold-Water Sponge Cake. — The accompanying recipe is 
a slight variation from the true sponge cake, for it contains leaven- 
ing other than eggs and a small amount of cold water. No difficulty 
will be experienced in making a cake according to this recipe if the 
directions are carefully followed. 

Cold-Water Sponge Cake 
3 eggs i c. cold water 

H c. sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

Rind and juice of 1 lemon 1| c. flour 

Beat the eggs until they are thick and lemon-colored. Add the 
sugar gradually and continue beating. Grate the yellow part from 
the lemon rind and add it with the juice. Pour in the cold water, 
continuing to beat. Sift in the baking powder with the flour and 
add to the egg mixture. Pour into a sponge-cake pan and bake. 

47. Hot-Water Sponge Cake. — Hot water and leavening in 
the form of soda and cream of tartar are used in the accompany- 



18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §18 

ing recipe for sponge cake. The texture is not just the same as that 
of a plain sponge cake, but if the recipe is carefully followed an 
excellent cake will be the result. 

Hot-Water Sponge Cake 

4 eggs li tsp. cream of tartar 

2 c. flour i c. hot water 

li c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
i tsp. soda 

Beat the eggs with a rotary beater until they are thick and lemon- 
colored. Sift the flour, powdered sugar, soda, and cream of tartar 
together several times. Sift these into the eggs and continue beat- 
ing. When all of the dry ingredients have been added, pour in the 
boiling water, flavor with the vanilla, and pour into a sponge-caka 
pan and bake. 

48. Orange Sponge Cake. — Sponge cake is delicious when it 
is flavored with orange. No leavening except the eggs is used in the 
recipe for cake of this kind. Lemon may be used in place of orange 
and i cupful of finely chopped nuts may be added. 

Orange Sponge Cake 

4 eggs 2 Tb. orange juice 

1 c. granulated sugar ^ tsp. orange extract 

f c. flour 

Beat the eggs with a rotary beater until they are light and lemon- 
colored. Add the granulated sugar gradually. Sift into this the 
flour, and continue the beating until all are mixed. Add the orange 
juice and extract, pour into a sponge-cake pan, and bake. 

49. Sunshine Cake. — Nothing more delicious in the way of 
cake can be made than sunshine cake. It is especially nice to serve 
with a frozen dessert of some kind, for it is not too rich and it is 
attractive in color. 

Sunshine Cake 

6 eggs f c. flour 

■J tsp. cream of tartar 1 tsp. lemon juice 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Separate the eggs. Beat the yolks with a rotary beater until they 
are thick and lemon-colored. Beat the egg whites until they are 
foamy, add the cream of tartar, and continue beating until they are 
dry. Fold the sugar into the egg whites and then fold the yolks 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 19 

into this mixture. Sift the flour several times and add it. Add the 
lemon juice and vanilla, pour into a sponge-cake pan, and bake. 

50. Angel Cake No. 1. — A variety of sponge cake in which 
only the egg whites are used is known as angel cake. Some persons 
hesitate to make cake of this kind because of the number of eggs it 
takes, but usually the yolks that remain can be put to very good use 
and so the cake is no more expensive than most others. 

Angel Cake No. 1 
1 c. flour i tsp. cream of tartar 

1 c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

10 egg whites 

Sift the flour and powdered sugar together four or five times in 
order to make them very light. Beat the egg whites with a whip 
until they are foamy. Add the cream of tartar, and continue beating 
until they are stiff enough to heap up in a mound and stay this way. 
Sift the mixture of flour and sugar a little at a time into the egg 
whites and continue beating until all is added. Flavor with the 
vanilla, place in a sponge-cake pan with a tube in the center, and 
bake in a very moderate oven. 

51. Angel Cake No. 2. — If a slightly larger cake than the 
first angel-cake recipe will make is desired, the accompanying recipe 
should be followed. Its texture is practically the same as that of 
the other cake. 

Angel Cake No. 2 
l;i c. flour 12 egg whites 

If c. powdered sugar 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

Sift the flour and sugar separately four or five times. Beat the 
egg whites until they are foamy and add the cream of tartar, con- 
tinuing to beat until they are stiff. Add the powdered sugar gradu- 
ally, continuing the beating. When all this has been added, sift in the 
flour, and fold it in with as light a motion as possible. Pour into a 
sponge-cake pan with a tube in the center, and bake in a very 
moderate oven, raising the temperature slightly at the end. 

52. Potato-Flour Sponge Cake. — When a substitute for 
wheat flour must be used and the supply of eggs is not large, the 
family need not be deprived of excellent cake, for potato sponge cake 
can be made. This resembles angel food to a certain extent, as it is 
white in color and tender in texture. It is a splendid cake to serve 
with rich frozen desserts. 



20 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

Potato-Flour Sponge Cake 

5 egg whites i c. wheat flour 

IJ c. sugar i tsp. cream of tartar 

I c. water 1 tsp. lemon extract 

f c. potato flour 

Beat the egg whites until stiff. Cook the sugar and water until 
the sirup threads. Add this sirup to the egg whites and beat well. 
Sift the potato flour, wheat flour, and cream of tartar three times, 
and then fold into the mixture. Add the flavoring, turn into a 
pan, and bake for about 40 minutes. 

53. Sponge Cake With. Potato Flour. — The accompanying 
recipe for sponge cake contains honey for part of the sweetening, 
both the yolks and the whites of the eggs, and potato flour. \\"hen 
sugar and wheat flour are scarce, this is a very good cake to make. 

Sponge Cake With Potato Flour 
■J c. honey 5 eggs 

4 c. granulated sugar Grated rind and juice of i lemon 

i c. water | c. potato flour 

Boil the honey, sugar, and water to the soft-ball stage. Separate 
the eggs, beat the yolks until thick and lemon-colored, and then beat 
the sirup into them. Add the grated lemon rind and juice, stir 
in the potato flour, and finally fold in the whites of the eggs, beaten 
very light. Bake in a tube pan for about 50 minutes. 



BUTTER CAKES AND THEIR PREPARATION 



METHOD OF PROCEDURE 

54. Nature of Butter Cake. — The ingredients for a simple 
butter cake consist of butter or other fat, sugar, flour, eggs, leaven- 
ing, and liquid. The proportion of flour and liquid in cake of this 
kind is similar to that of a thick, or muffin, batter, that is, 2 mea- 
sures of flour and 1 measure of liquid ; but it should be remembered 
that the addition of other ingredients, such as butter, sugar, and 
eggs, alter this proportion to a certain extent. However, it is possi- 
ble to make up a cake recipe from a muffin recipe by using one-half 
as much sugar as flour and one-half as much butter as sugar. \\'ith 
a knowledge of these proportions, the housewife will be able to 



§18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



21 



judge how near a new recipe comes to being a reasonable one and 
what the possibiHties of its success are. 




Fig. 10 

55. Combining: tlie Ingredients. — The method of mixing 
all cakes that include butter as an ingredient is similar. It is 
explained and illustrated in detail, so that the housewife may become 
thoroughly familiar with it and thus be prepared to apply it in the 
preparation of any variety of butter cake. In case a recipe contains 
additional ingredients, the way in which these are combined should 
be noted carefully and 
then carried out. 

56. In the making 
of any kind of butter 
cake, the ingredients and 
utensils should be col- 
lected and conveniently 
placed if the best results 
are desired. Fig. 10 
shows these assembled 
ready to begin the mix- 
ing. As will be observed, 
layer-cake pans are in- 
cluded in the equipment, 
but these may be re- 
placed by pans of other ^'°- " 

kinds if it is not desired to make a layer cake. Before the mixing 
begins, grease whatever pans are to be used and then dust thera 




22 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 




lightly with flour so that they will be ready when the mixture 

is prepared. 

57. As the first step 
in the making of butter 
cake, cream the butter 
in the mixing bowl, as 
shown in Fig. 1 1 ; that is, 
work it with a wooden 
spoon until it is soft and 
creamy. Then add the 
sugar from the measur- 
ing cup very slowly, as 
in Fig. 12, stirring con- 
tinually so that the mix- 
ture will remain creamy. 
The eggs are the next 
ingredient to be added. 
These are put in whole 

Fig. 12 '■ 

and unbeaten, whole and 
beaten, or they are separated and the yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately. If the whole 
eggs or the yolks are to 
be beaten, break them 
into a bowl and beat 
them with a rotary egg 
beater as Fig. 13 shows. 
As has already been 
learned, the whites, when 
added alone, should be 
beaten with an egg whip. 
When the eggs have been 
added to the mixture, 
beat it well so as to make 
it as light as possible and 
then stir in the liquid. 
The mixture will then 
appear as in Fig. 14. 
Next add all the dry 
ingredients to the flour, and, as illustrated in Fig. 15, carefully sift 




§18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



23 




Fig. 14 



all into the mixture. If 
desired, the Hquid and 
flour may be added 
alternately, a little at a 
time. With all the in- 
gredients combined, beat 
the mixture vigorously 
for a short time to make 
sure that everything is 
thoroughly mixed, and 
then, as shown in Fig. 16, 
pour it into the pans that 
have been greased and 
floured. If a two-layer 
or a three-layer cake is 
to be made, it may be 
divided evenly to fill two 
pans or three pans, but if a loaf cake is desired, all of it should be 

poured into one pan. 

58. Baking' the 
Mixture. — Place the 
pans containing the cake 
mixture on the bot- 
tom rack of the oven in 
order that it may have 
an opportunity to rise 
properly. The form in 
which the cake is made 
determines the correct 
temperature for the 
oven. Loaf cake re- 
quires more time for 
baking than small cakes 
or layer cake; conse- 
quently, the oven should 
not be so hot for cake of 
this kind as for the other 
types. A temperature of 
350 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit is suitable for loaf cake, while small 



m^ 


'■ .-»-... .*^. 


1\ 


Mi 




n 


< 






I^^K"^ •n 








....^^ 


K 


> 




^ni 


■m^^ 




Ls«, 




jP 










'"^ 


<^Si 


inn^^SS^ 


w 




M 



Fig. is 



24 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 




cakes or layer cake should have a temperature of at least 400 to 
450 degrees. Be careful not to move the cake in the oven until it has 
risen sufficiently and has set ; otherwise, it may fall when it is moved. 

If this precaution is ob- 
served and the cake falls, 
it may be known that the 
falling is due to a wrong 
proportion of ingredients 
and not to a draft nor 
the slamming of the oven 
door, as many house- 
wives think. A cake that 
rises in the center and 
cracks open contains 
either an insufficient 
quantity of liquid or too 
much flour. If, upon 
being baked, a layer is 
higher on one side than 
FiG. 16 on the other, it was prob- 

ably spread unevenly in 
the pan before it was put in the oven or the oven rack itself was 
not level. This condition may be caused by uneven heat in the oven. 

59. To determine whether a butter cake is baked sufficiently or 
not, several tests may be made. Cake of this kind does not shrink 
from the sides of the pan 
as does sponge cake, but 
the finger test mentioned 
may be applied, just as 
in the case of sponge 
cake. If, upon making 
a depression in the cen- 
ter of the butter cake, 
the surface springs back 
to fill the depression, it P'"-" 

may be known that the cake is done. Another test consists in insert- 
ing a toothpicl< in the center of the cake. If it comes out clean, the 
cake has finished baking, but if some of the mixture sticks to the 
toothpick, more baking is required. 




§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 25 

60. Care of Butter Cake After Baking. — As soon as a butter 
cake is sufficiently baked, take it from the oven and remove it from 
the pan at once. See that the cake is loosened from the bottom and 
sides of the pan before attempting to turn it out. It can be loosened 
around the sides by means of a knife, and usually a slight shaking 
of the pan up and down or the inserting of the knife a little under 
the cake will be sufficient to loosen it from the bottom. Here the 
advantage of pans having removable bottoms is evident. When 
such pans are used, lift the cake out of the pan on the removable 
bottom and, as shown in Fig. 17, run a long thin knife under the 
cake until it is entirely loosened from the pan. Then slip the bottom 
out from under the cake and allow the cake to cool. A cake cooler, 
such as the one here shown, is the most convenient thing to use for 
the cooling of cakes. If one of these is not available, clean towels 
spread on a flat surface make a very good substitute. Allow the 
cake to become entirely cool before attempting to ice it. 



RECIPES FOR BUTTER CAKES 

61. One-Eg-g Cake. — One of the most economical cakes that 
can be made is the one-egg cake given in the accompanying recipe. 
However, when only one egg is used, a comparatively small quantity 
of cake mixture is the result. If it is desired to make a layer cake 
of this mixture, it will be necessary to double the quantities of the 
ingredients. 

One-Egg Cake 

i c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar ^ c. milk 

1 egg 1 tsp. vanilla 
1| c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beat the egg, and add 
it. Mix and sift the flour and baking powder. Add the milk and 
the flour alternately until all the flour and liquid are added. Add 
the vanilla. Bake in a shallow loaf pan, making a single layer. Ice 
with any desirable icing. 

62. Plain. Layer Cake. — As a layer cake is usually iced over 
the top and contains an icing or a filling of some kind between the 
layers, a plain-cake mixture, such as that given in the accompanying 
recipe, is the most suitable kind. 



26 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §18 

Plain Layer Cake 
4 c. butter 5 tsp. baking powder 

li c. sugar 1 c. milk 

3 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

3 c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beat the eggs well, and 
add to the mixture. Sift the flour and baking powder together and 
add alternately with the milk, adding milk first. Add the vanilla, 
pour into layer-cake pans and bake. Ice with any kind of icing. 

63. Nut Layer Cake. — A delicious cake can be made by 
adding nuts to the cake mixture given in the following recipe. This 
is baked in layers and then iced in any desired way. 

Nut Layer Cake 
i c. butter 5 tsp. baking powder 

1| c. sugar 1^ c. milk 

3 eggs f c. chopped nuts 

3 c. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Beat the eggs and 
add them. Sift the flour and baking powder together, and add the 
milk and the dry ingredients alternately. Fold in the chopped nuts, 
add the vanilla, pour into layer-cake pans, and bake. 

64. Chocolate Nut Cake. — Another delightful layer cake is 
the chocolate nut layer cake given in the accompanying recipe. The 
layers are put together with a thick layer of white boiled icing, and 
the top one is covered with a covering of the same. 

Chocolate Nut Cake 
i c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar 2 sq. chocolate 

1 egg i c. chopped nuts 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beat the egg, and add 
it to the mixture. Stir in alternately the milk and the flour and 
baking powder. Melt the chocolate in a double boiler and stir this 
into the dough. Fold in the chopped nuts, add the vanilla, and bake 
in a loaf or two rather thin layers. If baked in layers, remove them 
from the pans and cool. Ice the first layer with a very thick cover- 
ing of white boiled icing almost as thick as the layer itself. Place 
the second layer of cake on top of this and cover with another thick 
layer of icuig. 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 27 

65. Sour-Milk Chocolate Cake. — A very good chocolate 
cake can be made by using sour milk instead of sweet milk. In such 
cake, soda takes the place of baking powder, for, as has already 
been learned, the leavening is produced by the action of the soda on 
the acid in the milk. 

Sour-Milk Chocolate Cake 
i c. butter 2^ c. flour 

li c. sugar f tsp. soda 

1 egg 1 c. sour milk 

2 sq. chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, and cream well together. Beat 
the egg and add to the butter and sugar. Melt the chocolate. Sift 
the flour and soda together, and add to the mixture alternately 
with the sour milk. Beat well together and add the vanilla and 
melted chocolate. Pour into a loaf-cake pan and bake. 

66. Devil's Food. — Sometimes an entirely dark cake is 
desired. In such an event, devil's food, in which both chocolate and 
spices are used for flavoring, should be prepared. Such a cake is 
baked in a thick layer and is covered with chocolate icing. 

Devil's Food 

i c. butter i tsp. cloves 

li c. sugar i tsp. ginger 

2 eggs i tsp. nutrneg 

2 c. flour f c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 2 sq. bitter chocolate 

1 tsp. cinnamon 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat the eggs and 
add them. Sift the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, 
and nutmeg together, and add the milk alternately with these dry 
ingredients. Melt the chocolate in a double boiler and stir into the 
cake mixture. Add the vanilla. Bake in a flat pan in a thick layer. 
Ice with chocolate icing and cut into 2-inch squares. 

67. Raisin Spice Cake. — Most persons are very fond of cake 
containing raisins and spices. A good combination of spices used 
for such cake is cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, cloves being used in 
the smallest quantity. 

Raisin Spice Cake 
J c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

f c. sugar 2i tsp. spices 

2 eggs 1 c. milk 

2i c. flour i c. raisins 

W I-C 4-11 



28 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat the eggs and 
add them. Sift the flour, baking powder, and spices together, and 
add these alternately with the milk, adding milk first. Fold in the 
raisins, pour the mixture into a loaf-cake pan, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven. This cake may be served with or without icing. 

68. Nut Spice Cake. — Nuts and spices combine very well in 
cake, as shown in the accompanying recipe. This cake is usually 
baked in a loaf pan, and may be served with or without icing. 

Nut Spice Cake 

i c. butter 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar i tsp. cloves 

2 eggs I tsp. ginger 
2 c. flour f c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder ^ c. chopped nuts 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat the eggs and 
add them. Sift the flour, baking powder, and spices together. Add 
the milk and dry ingredients alternately, fold in the nuts, pour into a 
loaf-cake pan, and bake in a moderate oven. 

69. War Cake. — Cakes of almost every description contain 
eggs, but very good cake can be made without eggs, as in the accom- 
panying recipe. This cake, which is known as war cake, contains 
only a small quantity of butter. Raisins increase its food value and 
spices are used for flavoring. 

War Cake 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 Tb. butter 1 tsp. allspice 

2 c. water 1 tsp. mace 

1 lb. raisins 1 tsp. nutmeg 

3J c. flour i tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. soda 

Boil the sugar, butter, water, and raisins together, and cool. Then 
to the flour add the salt, spices, and soda, and sift these into the 
boiled mixture. Pour into a loaf-cake pan and bake. 

70. Wliite Cake. — An ideal white cake can be made by using 
the whites of five eggs with the proper proportions of butter, sugar, 
flour, liquid, and leavening. Such a cake is usually baked in a large 
flat pan and then cut into squares. 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 29 

White Cake 
i c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

14 c. sugar f c. milk 

5 egg whites Powdered sugar 

2^ c. flour Shredded coconut 

Cream the butter and add gradually the sugar and the beaten 
whites of eggs. Sift the flour and baking powder together and add 
alternately with the milk. Beat this mixture well. Pour into a 
sheet-cake pan, 9 inches by 12 inches, and cover with powdered 
sugar and a rather thin layer of shredded coconut. Bake for about 
40 minutes in a moderate oven. Remove from the pan, cool, and 
serve without icing. 

71. Feather Cake. — ^A cake that is easily made and that is a 
general favorite is known as feather cake. As may be inferred 
from the name, such cake is very light in weight and tender in 
texture. 

Feather Cake 
■| c. butter 1^ tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar i c. milk 

3 eggs 1 tsp. flavoring 

2 c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat the eggs and 
add them. Sift the flour and baking powder together, and add 
alternately with the milk to the mixture. Add the flavoring. Beat 
rapidly for a few minutes, pour into a loaf -cake pan, and bake. Ice 
with simple white icing. 

72. Gold Cake. — The cake given in the accompanying recipe 
and known as gold cake is very attractive in color, as well as appe- 
tizing in taste. To produce the gold color, only the yolks of the 
eggs are used. Orange extract is used for the flavoring. 

Gold Cake 
i c. butter 2 tsp. baking powder 

§ c. sugar I c. milk 

4 egg yolks 1 tsp. orange extract 

1| c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beat the yolks of the 
eggs until they are thick and lemon-colored, and add them. Sift 
the flour and baking powder together, and add alternately with the 
milk. Add the orange extract and bake in a loaf-cake pan. Cover 
with white icing and serve. 



30 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

73. Ice-Cream Cake. — Because of the nature of the cake here 
given, it is called ice-cream cake. Only the whites of the eggs are 
used, and so the cake is white in color. It is baked in layers and is 
frosted with white icing. 

Ice-Ckeam Cake 
i c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

2 c. sugar 4 egg whites 
1 c. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

3 c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and pour in the milk. 
Sift the flour and baking powder together and add them. Beat the 
egg whites until they are stiff, fold these in, and add the vanilla. 
Bake in layers, and put marshmallow filling between the layers and 
on top. Chopped hickory nuts may also be put between the layers 
and spread on top if a more delicious ice-cream cake is desired. 

74. Corn-Starcli Cake. — An excellent cake will result when 
the following recipe is carefully worked out. It gets its name from 
the fact that corn starch is used for a part of the thickening. This 
cake is usually baked in a loaf-cake pan and then covered with icing. 

Corn-Starch Cake 
•J c. butter i c. milk 

1 c. sugar 3 egg whites 
^ c. corn starch i tsp. vanilla 

2 tsp. baking powder -J tsp. lemon extract 
1:^ c. wheat flour 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Sift the com 
starch, baking powder, and flour together. Add the milk and then 
the dry ingredients. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff and fold 
them in. Add the vanilla and lemon extract. Bake in a loaf-cake 
pan. Ice with chocolate or caramel icing. 

75. Cinnamon Cake. — A cake that is inexpensive and not 
very rich but at the same time favored by many persons is the 
cinnamon cake here given. It is slightly dark in color, due to the 
cinnamon that is used in it. Caramel icing seems to be the most 
suitable for cake of this kind, but if desired white icing may be used. 

Cinnamon Cake 
i c. butter If c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 2 tsp. cinnamon 
^ c. milk 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 31 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Separate the eggs, 
beat the yolks, and add them to the mixture. Stir in the milk. Sift 
the flour, baking powder, and cinnamon together and add these. 
Beat the egg whites until they are stiff, and fold them into the cake 
dough. Bake in layers or in a loaf and ice with white or caramel 
icing. 

76. Pound Cake. — Often a cake that will keep for some time is 
desired. In such an event, pound cake should be made, for it will 
remain fresh for a long period of time if it is stored in a closely 
covered receptacle. It is usually served without any icing and is cut 
into small, thin slices. The recipe here given makes enough cake 
for two loaf-cake pans. 

Pound Cake 

i c. finely cut citron 5 eggs 

f c. butter 2 c. flour 

1^ c. sugar i tsp. mace 

Steam the citron until it is soft, cut into thin strips, and then into 
small pieces. Cream the butter until it is white, sift the sugar in 
slowly, and beat the two until the sugar is dissolved. Add the eggs 
one at a time without previously beating them, and beat each egg in 
thoroughly before the other is added. Stir in the flour and mace 
and bake in a very slow oven, in one large or two small loaf- 
cake pans. 

77. Caramel Cake. — Cake flavored with caramel affords a 
change from the usual varieties of cake. The caramel used for this 
cake should be prepared in the manner explained in Cold and Frozen 

Desserts. 

Caramel Cake 

i c. butter 2i c. flour 

1^ c. sugar 4 tsp. baking powder 

3 Tb. caramel 1 tsp. vanilla 

f c. water 3 egg whites 
2 egg yolks 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Add the caramel, 
water, and beaten egg yolks. Stir in the flour and baking powder 
sifted together. Add the vanilla and fold in the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Bake in layers. Ice with any kind of white icing. 

78. Jelly Roll. — Many housewives do not attempt to make 
jelly roll, because they consider it a difficult matter. T'owever, no 



32 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § IB 

trouble will be experienced in making excellent jelly roll if the 
following recipe is carried out explicitly. 

Jelly Roll 

3 eggs 1 tsp. baking powder 
1 c. sugar i tsp. salt 

4 Tb. milk 1 Tb. butter 
1 c. flour 

Beat the eggs until light, add the sugar gradually, and continue 
beating. Stir in the milk, and then add the flour, which has been 
sifted with the baking powder and salt. Melt the butter and beat 
into the cake mixture. Line the bottom of a flat pan with paper, 
and grease the paper and the sides of the pan. Cover the bottom of 
the pan with a thin layer of the mixture spread evenly. Bake until 
done in a moderate oven. Remove from the pan at once, and turn 
out on paper sprinkled thickly with powdered sugar. Remove the 
paper from the bottom of the cake, and cut off a thin strip as far as 
the crust extends in on the sides and ends of the cake. Spread with 
a thick layer of jelly and roll. After the cake has been rolled, place 
a piece of paper around it, wrap in a slightly dampened napkin or 
towel, and allow it to stand until it cools. Unless the rolling is done 
as soon as the paper has been removed from it, the cake is likely to 
crack. 

79. Lady Baltimore Cake. — If an excellent cake for a spe- 
cial occasion is desired, Lady Baltimore cake should be served. It is 
made in layers, between which a filling containing fruit and nuts is 
spread. A white icing of any desirable kind is used to cover the 
cake. 

Lady Baltimore Cake 
i c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar 3 egg whites 
f c. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and continue creaming. 
Stir in the milk. Sift the flour and baking powder together and 
add them. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites and add the vanilla. 
Bake in square layer pans or in two thick layers in loaf-cake pans. 
When cold, fill with the following filling and ice with any desirable 
white icmg. Filling for Lady Baltimore Cake 

2 c. sugar 4 c. figs or dates, chopped 

J c. milk 1 c. chopped nuts 

1 c. raisins, chopped 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 33 

Cook the sugar and milk until it forms a soft ball when dropped 
in cold water. Remove from the fire and cool. Beat until it begins 
to look creamy, and then add the raisins, figs or dates, and nuts. 
When stiff enough, spread a thick layer on one layer of the cake, 
place the other layer of cake on top, and cover with a thin layer of 
white icing. 

80. Bride's Cake. — When a bride's cake is mentioned, one 
naturally thinks of a large, round cake entirely covered with thick, 
white icing. The cake here given is one of this kind, and in addi- 
tion may be ornamented in any desired way. Besides being very 
attractive in appearance, this cake is delicious in taste. 

Bride's Cake 
i c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

IJ c. sugar 6 egg whites 

i c. milk i tsp. cream of tartar 

2| c. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and stir in the milk. 
Sift the flour and baking powder together and add to the mixture. 
Beat the egg whites until they are foamy. Add the cream of tartar 
to them and beat until stiff. Fold in the egg whites, add the vanilla, 
and bake in a deep, round pan. Cover with plain white frosting 
and ornament with icing in any desired way. 

81. Fruit Cake. — In the preparations for Christmas festivities, 
fruit cake usually has an important place. But besides being very 
appropriate cake for the holiday season, fruit cake is a splendid cake 
to make because of its keeping qualities. It may be kept for a long 
time if it is properly cared for. The best plan is to wrap it in oiled 
paper and then put it away in a closely covered receptacle, such as a 
tin box. In fact, fruit cake is much better if it is baked a month 
before it is to be eaten and is moistened several times during that 
time by pouring over it and allowing to soak in a few teaspoonfuls 
of orange juice or diluted grape juice. 

Fruit Cake 

f c. raisins i c. milk 

I c. currants 2 c. flour 

^ c. finely cut citron ^ tsp. soda 

i c. butter 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar 4 tsp. allspice 

2 eggs i tsp. nutmeg 
^ c. molasses J tsp. cloves 



34: CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 1 18 

First prepare the fruits for the cake. Cream the butter, stir in 
the sugar gradually, add the eggs unbeaten, and continue beating. 
Add the molasses, milk, and flour with which the soda and spices 
have been sifted, and then fold the fruits, which have been prepared, 
into this mixture. Another way of adding the fruit is to pour a 
layer of the cake mixture into the cake pan, sprinkle this generously 
with the fruit, then another layer of dough and another layer of 
fruit, and iinally a layer of dough with just a little fruit sprinkled 
on top. Whichever plan is followed, prepare the pan by covering 
the bottom with ^ inch of flour and then placing a piece of greased 
paper over this. This heavy layer of flour prevents the cake from 
burning. Put the cake in a very moderate oven and bake for about 
2 hours. If a fruit cake without a heavy crust is desired, the mix- 
ture may be steamed for 3 hours in an ordinary steamer and then 
placed in the oven just long enough to dry the surface. 

82. Wliite Fruit Cake. — ^^Vhile dark fruit cake is popular with 
the majority of persons, white fruit cake has been coming into favor 
for some time and is now made extensively. It contains a larger 
variety of fruit than the dark cake and nuts are also used. Cake 
of this kind may be baked in the oven or steamed. 

White Fruit Cake 

i lb. citron, cut into thin slices 1 c. butter 

i lb. apricots, dried, steamed, and 1 c. brown sugar 

chopped 1 egg 

i lb. raisins, chopped ^ c. milk 

i lb. candied cherries, cut into 1 Tb. baking powder 

pieces ^ tsp. cloves 

i lb. dates, chopped 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i lb. almonds, blanched and cut ^ tsp. nutmeg 

into thin strips 2 c. flour 

Steam the citron and apricots until they are soft, and then cut 
them in the required manner. Prepare the other fruits and the 
almonds. Cream the butter, add the sugar, egg, and milk, and beat 
thoroughly. Sift the baking powder and spices with the flour and 
add these. Dredge the fruits and nuts with flour and fold them into 
the mixture. Bake for 2 hours in a slow oven in small loaf pans 
lined with paper and containing about a |-inch layer of flour in the 
bottom, or steam for 3 hours and then bake for a short time in a 
moderate oven. 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 35 

83. "Wedding Cake. — Fruit cake has been used so much for 
wedding cake that it has come to be the established cake for this 
purpose. However, when fruit cake is to be used for weddings, a 
richer variety is generally made, as will be observed from the ingre- 
dients listed in the accompanying recipe. Wedding cake is usually cut 
into small pieces and presented to the guests in dainty white boxes. 

Wedding Cake 
2 lb. sultana raisins 1 lb. flour 

1 lb. dates, chopped i tsp. soda 

1 lb. citron, cut into thin strips 2 tsp. cinnamon 
1 lb. figs, chopped ^ tsp. nutmeg 

1 lb. butter -J tsp. allspice 

1 lb. sugar J tsp. cloves 

8 eggs -J c. grape juice 

Prepare the fruits and dredge with ^ cupful of the flour. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat together thoroughly. 
Separate the eggs, beat the yolks until they are thick and lemon- 
colored, and add to the sugar and butter. Sift the flour, soda, and 
spices together, and add to the mixture. Fold in the egg whites 
beaten stiff, add the grape juice, and fold in the fruits. Bake in the 
same way as fruit cake. 

CAKE ICINGS AND FILLINGS 



NATURE, PURPOSE, AND APPIilCATIOUT 

84. Certain varieties of cakes are served plain, but the majority 
of cakes are usually covered with a sugar mixture of some descrip- 
tion known as icing. In addition, if a cake is baked in layers, a 
filling, which may be either the same as the icing used for the cover- 
ing or a mixture resembling a custard, is put between the layers to 
hold them together. These icings and fillings are used for the pur- 
pose of improving both the taste and the appearance of the cake, as 
well as for the purpose of retaining the moisture in it. Some of 
them are very simple, consisting merely of powdered sugar mixed 
with a liquid, while others are more elaborate and involve a number 
of ingredients. They may be spread over the cake, put on thick in 
a level manner, or arranged in fancy designs on a plain background 
of simple icing with the use of a pastry tube or a paper cornucopia. 
These decorations may be made in white or in various colors to suit 
the design selected for decoration. 



36 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 18 

85. It is well to understand just what cakes may be served 
without icings and fillings and what ones are improved by these 
accompaniments. Sponge cakes, as a rule, are not iced elaborately, 



Fig. 18 

for a heavy icing does not harmonize with the light texture of this 
kind of cake. If anything is desired, a simple sugar icing is used or 
the surface of the cake is moistened with the white of egg and then 
sprinkled with sugar. Butter cakes, especially when baked in layers, 
although they are often much richer than sponge cakes, are usually 
iced. When they are baked in the form of loaf cakes, they may or 




Fig. 19 



may not be iced, as desired. Very rich cakes made in loaf-cake form 
are usually served without icing, unless they are served whole and 
it is desired to make them attractive for a special occasion. 



§18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



37 



86. For the most part, icings are put on plain, as in Fig. 18, but 
there are some occasions for which an attractively decorated cake is 
desired. For instance, birthday cakes, wedding cakes, or cakes for 
parties and dinners are often served whole from the table, and when 
this is done, the cake should be made as attractive as possible. The 
work of decorating such cakes may prove somewhat difficult at 
first, but just a little practice in this direction will produce surprising 
results. Figs. 19 and 20 show what can be done in the way of deco- 
ration with very little effort. The cake shown in Fig. 19 is suitable 
for a special occasion, such as a party, while the one in Fig. 20 is a 
birthday cake. These cakes are first covered with a plain white 
icing and then decorated 
in any colors desired. 
The candle holders on 
the birthday cake, which 
may be purchased in 
various colors, c o r r e - 
spond in color with the 
decoration on the cake. 
Original ideas and de- 
signs may thus be 
worked out in an attrac- 
tive way to match a color 
scheme or carry out a 
decorative idea. A past- 
ry tube is the most satis- 
factory utensil for this purpose, but a tiny paper cornucopia made 
of stiff white paper may be used to advantage for the decoration of 
small cakes and even for certain designs on large ones. 




Fig. 20 



87. The cake that comes out of the pan with a smooth surface 
is the one to which an icing or a filling may be applied most satis- 
factorily. Unless absolutely necessary, the cake should not be cut 
nor broken in any way before it is iced, as a cut surface is apt to 
crumble and produce a rough appearance. If the cake must be cut, 
as is the case when small fancy shapes are made out of baked cake, 
the pieces should be glazed with a coating of egg white mixed with a 
very small quantity of sugar and beaten just enough to incorporate 
the sugar. Then, if they are allowed to dry for 4 or 5 hours before 
being iced, no crumbs will mix with the icing. 



38 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 1« 



CAKE ICINGS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

88. Varieties of Icings, — Icings are of two varieties: those 
which require cooking and those whose ingredients are not cooked. 
In uncooked icings, which are easily made, sugar, such as confec- 
tioner's, is moistened with a Hquid of some kind and then flavored 
in various ways. The more common of the cooked varieties are 
made by beating a hot sugar sirup into well-beaten egg whites. 
After being flavored, icings of this kind may be used without the 
addition of other ingredients or they may be combined with fruits, 
nuts, coconut, etc. 

89. Uncooked Icings. — Confectioner's sugar is the most 
satisfactory for uncooked icings, and it is the kind most commonly 
used for this purpose. The finer this sugar can be secured, the 
better will the icing be, XXXX being the most desirable. As such 
sugar forms very hard lumps when it is allowed to stand, it should 
be rolled and sifted before it is mixed with the other ingredients. 
The material used to moisten the sugar may be lemon juice or some 
other fruit juice, water, milk, cream, egg white, butter, or a combi- 
nation of these. Enough liquid should be used to make the icing 
thin enough to spread easily. 

90. The ingredients used in uncooked icings determine to a 
certain extent the utensils required to make the icings. A fine-mesh 
wire sifter should be used to sift the sugar. A bowl of the proper 
size to mix the materials should be selected, and a wooden spoon 
should also be secured for this purpose, although a silver spoon will 
answer if a wooden one is not in supply. To spread the mixture on 
the cake, a silver knife produces the best results. If the icing is to 
be put on in ornamental way, the equipment already mentioned, that 
is, a pastry bag or a paper cornucopia, should be provided. 

Cold-Water Icing 

1 c. confectioner's sugar 1 tsp. lemon juice 

2 Tb. cold water 

Add the sugar to the water and lemon juice, beat together thor- 
oughly, and spread on any desired cake. 

Plain Icing 

1 egg white 2 tsp. cold water 

1 J c. confectioner's sugar -J tsp. vanilla 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 39 

Beat the white of the egg until it is stiff. Sift in the sugar and 
add a little of the water occasionally until all the water and sugar 
are added. Beat together thoroughly, add the flavoring, and spread 
on the cake. 

Orange Icing 

1^ c. confectioner's sugar Few drops orange extract 

4 Tb. orange juice Orange coloring for tinting 

Sift the sugar into the orange juice and beat thoroughly. Add 
the orange extract and just a little of the orange coloring for an 
even tint. Spread on the cake. 

Chocolate Water Icing 

1 sq. chocolate 1^ c. pulverized sugar 

3 Tb. boiling water i tsp. vanilla 

Melt the chocolate in a double boiler, add the boiling water and 
the sugar, and stir together until smooth. Add the vanilla. Spread 
on the cake. 

White Icing 

2 egg whites 1 tsp. vanilla 

l^ c. confectioner's sugar 

Beat the egg whites until they are stiff, sift in the powdered sugar, 
add the vanilla, and beat together until the icing is of a consistency 
to spread. 

Butter Icing 

1 Tb. butter ^ tsp. vanilla 

li c. powdered sugar 1 egg white 

1 Tb. cream 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, diluting it with the cream, and 
add the vanilla. Beat the egg white and add to the mixture, continu- 
ing the beating until the mixture is dry and ready to spread. 

Chocolate Butter Icing 

1 Tb. butter i egg 

IJ c. powdered sugar 1 oz. chocolate 

3 Tb. milk Vanilla 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, moistening with 
the milk and egg to make the mixture thin enough to spread. Melt 
the chocolate in a saucepan over hot water and pour into the icing 
mixture. Add the vanilla. Beat thoroughly and if more sugar or 
liquid is needed to make the icing thicker or thinner, add until it is 
of the right consistency to spread. 



40 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §18 

Ornamental Icing 

3 egg whites 3 tsp. lemon juice 

3 c. confectioner's sugar 

Put the egg whites into a bowl, add a little of the sugar, and 
beat. Continue adding sugar until the mixture becomes too thick 
to beat well, and then add the lemon juice. Add the remainder of 
the sugar, and continue beating until the icing is thick enough to 
spread. Spread a thin layer over the cake and allow it to harden. 
When this is dry, cover it with another layer to make a smooth 
surface, and add more sugar to the remaining icing until it is of a 
very stiff consistency. Color and flavor as desired, place in a pastry 
bag, and force through pastry tubes to make any desired designs. 

91. Cooked Icings. — A few cooked icings are made without 
egg whites, but for the most part icings of this kind consist of a 
sugar sirup beaten into egg whites that have been whipped until they 
are stiff. Success in making icing of this kind depends largely on 
boiling the sirup to just the right degree, for when this is done the 
icing will remain for a short time in a condition to be handled. If 
the sirup is not cooked long enough, the icing will not stiffen and it 
will have to be mixed with powdered sugar to make it dry. In the 
event of its being boiled too long, the icing will have to be applied 
quickly, for it is likely to become sugary. A thermometer is a con- 
venient utensil to use in making icings of this kind, for with it the 
housewife can determine just when the sirup is boiled to the right 
point. However, after the housewife has had a little experience, 
excellent results can be achieved in the way of icings without a 
thermometer if the mixture is tested carefully. The beating of 
cooked icings also has much to do with the nature of the finished 
product. They should be beaten until they are of just the proper 
consistency to spread and still will not run off the surface of the 
cake. 

92. Because of the nature of cooked icings, it is necessary that 
the work of applying them to cakes be completed as quickly as 
possible. A case knife or a spatula is the best utensil for this 
purpose. 

To ice a layer cake, pour some of the icing on the layer that is 
desired for the bottom and then spread it over the layer quickly 
until it is smooth and as thick as desired. If coconut or any other 



;18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



41 




Fig. 21 



ingredient, such as chopped nuts or fruit, is to be used, sprinkle it 

on the icing as in Fig. 21. Then take up the second layer carefully, 

as shown, and place it on the iced first layer. Pour the remainder 

of the icing on this layer 

and spread it evenly 

over the top and down 

the sides, as shown in 

Fig. 22. The cake will 

then be covered with 

a plain white icing that 

will be sufficient in itself 

or that may serve as a 

basis for any desired 

ornament. If coconut, 

fruit, or nuts have been 

used between the layers, 

sprinkle the same over the top, as shown' m Fig. 23, while the icing 

is still soft. 

Sometimes, after the icing has been spread, it may be found that 
the surface is not so smooth as it should be. Any roughness that 
may occur, however, may be removed as soon as, the icing has 
become entirely cold by dipping a clean silver knife into hot water 
and, as shown in Fig. 24, running it gently over the entire surface. 

This treatment takes 

only 



a little time and 
greatly improves the 
appearance of the cake. 

Caramel Icing 

1^ c. brown sugar 
f c. milk 
I Tb. butter 

Boil the ingredients 
together until a soft ball 
is formed when the mix- 
ture is tried in cold 
water. Cool and beat 
until of the right consistency to spread. Spread this icing rather 
thin. If desired chopped nuts may be added to it while it is being 
beaten. 




Fig. 22 



42 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 




Fig. 23 



Maple Icing 
Maple icing may be made by following the recipe given for 
caramel icing, with the exception of using maple sugar in place of 

the brown sugar. 

Boiled Icing 

1 c. sugar 

^ c. water 

1 egg white 

Pinch of cream of tartar 

Put the sugar and 
water to cook in a sauce- 
pan. Boil until a fairly 
hard ball is formed when 
the sirup is tried in cold 
water or until it threads 
when dropped from a 
spoon, as shown in 
Fig. 25. If a thermom- 
eter is used to test the 
sirup, it should register 240 to 242 degrees Fahrenheit when the 
sirup is taken from the stove. Beat the egg white, add the cream of 
tartar, and continue beating until the egg white is stiff. Then, as in 
Fig. 26, pour the hot sirup over the beaten egg white very slowly, so 
as not to cook the egg, beating rapidly until all the sirup has been 
added. Continue to beat with a spoon or egg whip until the icing is 
light and almost stiff 
enough to spread on the 
cake, as in Fig. 27. Then 
place the bowl over a 
vessel containing boiling 
water, as in Fig. 28, and 
beat for 3 or 4 minutes 
while the water boils 
rapidly underneath. 
With this treatment, the 
icing will not change in 
consistency, but will be- 
come easier to handle and will permit of being used for a longer 
period of time without becoming hard. In fact, it may be kept until 




Fig. 24 



§18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



43 




the next day if desired by placing a moist cloth over the top of the 
bowl so as to prevent a 
crust from forming. 

Chocolate Icing 
If chocolate icing is 
desired, a square of 
melted chocolate may be 
added to the icing given 
in the preceding recipe 
after the sirup has been 
added to the egg white. 

Brown-Sugar Boiled Icing 

1| c. brown sugar 

■J c. white sugar 

i c. water 
2 egg whites 
Pinch of cream of tartar 

Boil the sugar and the 

water until it threads or 

forms a fairly hard ball 

when tried in cold water. Beat the egg whites until stiff, adding a 

pinch of cream of tartar 
while beating. Pour the 
hot sirup over the egg 
whites and continue 
beating. Flavor with 
vanilla if desired. Beat 
until stiff enough to 
spread and, if desired, 
cook over boiling water 
as described for boiled 
white icing. 

Time-Saving Icing 
f c. granulated sugar 
3 Tb. water 
1 egg white 

Put the sugar, water, 
and egg white into the 
upper part of a small double boiler. Have the water in the lower 




Fig. 26 



44 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§18 




part boiling rapidly. Set 
the part containing the 
ingredients in place and 
beat constantly for 7 
minutes with a rotary 
egg beater, when a 
cooked frosting that will 
remain in place will be 
ready for use. The 
water in the lower recep- 
tacle must be boUing 
rapidly throughout the 
7 minutes. 



Fig. 27 



CAKE FII.I.IXGS 

93. As already ex- 
plained, any icing used 
for the top of the cake 

may also be used for the filling that is put between the layers, but 

often, to obtain variety, 

an entirely different mix- 
ture is used for this pur- 
pose. A number of 

recipes for cake fillings 

are here given, and from 

these the housewife can 

select the one that seems 

best suited to the cake 

with which it is to be 

used. As will be noted, 

many of them are sim- 
ilar to custard mixtures, 

and these, in addition to 

being used for cakes, 

may be used for filling 

cream puffs and eclairs. 

Others contain fruit, or 

nuts, or both, while still 

others resemble icing, with the exception of being softer. No diffi- 




FiG. 28 



§ 18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 45 

culty will be experienced in making any of these fillings if the direc- 
tions are carefully followed. They should be applied to the cake in 
the same way as icings. 

French Filling 

2 c. milk • 2 eggs 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

i c. flour -J tsp. lemon extract 

i tsp. salt 

Heat the milk to scalding in a double boiler. Mix the sugar, flour, 
and salt. Pour the hot milk over this, and stir rapidly to prevent 
the formation of lumps. Return to the double boiler and cook for 
15 to 20 minutes. Beat the eggs slightly and add them to the mix- 
ture. Cook for 5 minutes longer. Add the flavoring, cool, and place 
between layers of cake or use for filling cream puffs or eclairs. Half 
of the recipe will be sufficient for cake filling. 

Chocolate Filling 
If chocolate filling is desired, melt 1^ squares of chocolate and add 
to the French filling while it is hot. 

Coffee Filling 
A very good coffee filling may be made by scalding 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of coffee with the milk, straining to remove the grounds, and 
then adding to French filling for flavoring. 

Fruit Cream Filling 
§ c. heavy cream i c. crushed raspberries, straw- 

i c. sugar berries, peaches, or any desir- 

able fresh fruit 

Whip the cream until stiff, add the sugar, and fold in the crushed 
fruit. Place between layers of cake. 

Raisin-and-Nut Filling 

^ c. sugar ^ c. raisins 

i c. water ^ c. chopped nuts 

Boil the sugar and water until they form a firm ball when tried 
in cold water. Chop the raisins and nuts and add them to the sirup. 
Cook until stiff enough not to run, and place between layers of cake. 

Coconut Filling 

1 c. milk 2 Tb. corn starch 

^ c- shredded coconut 1 egg 
I c. sugar 



46 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §18 

Heat the milk to scalding with the coconut. Mix the sugar and 
corn starch, pour the hot milk into it, and stir rapidly so as to pre- 
vent lumps from forming. Cook for 15 or 20 minutes. Beat the 
egg slightly, add to the mixture, and cook for 5 minutes more. Cool 
and spread between layers of cake. 

Lemok Filling 

2 Tb. corn starch 1 Tb. butter 

•J c. sugar 1 lemon 

I c. boiling water 1 egg 

Mix the corn starch and sugar, and add to this the boiling water. 
Put to cook in a double boiler, add the butter, the grated rind of the 
lemon, and cook for 15 or 20 minutes. Beat the egg slowly, add to 
the mixture, and cook for 5 minutes more. Remove from the heat 
and add the juice of the lemon. Cool and spread between layers 
of cake. 

Orange Filling 

Orange filling may be made by using grated orange rind in place of 
the lemon in the recipe for lemon filling and 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice and 2 tablespoonfuls of orange juice. 

Marsh MALLOW Filling 

2i c. sugar i tsp. cream of tartar 

f c. hot water 1 egg white 

Boil the sugar, water, and cream of tartar until the sirup threads. 
Beat the egg white until stiff, add the sirup slowly so as not to cook 
the egg, and beat constantly until thick enough to spread on the cake 
without running. This may be used for icing, as well as filling. 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



(PART 1) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Discuss briefly the use of cake in the diet. 

(2) What leavening materials are used in cake making? 

(3) (a) What are the two general classes of cakes? (b) In what way do 
they differ ? 

(4) Of what value in cake making are pans with removable bottoms? 

(5) Give the various steps up to mixing in making a cake. 

(6) How should pans be prepared for: (a) butter cakes? (6) sponge cakes? 

(7) Give the general proportion of ingredients for sponge cake. 

(8) Give the order necessary for combining the ingredients in sponge cake. 

(9) (a) Describe the baking of sponge cake. (&) How can you tell when 
sponge cake is ready to be taken out of the oven? 

(10) When and how is sponge cake taken from the pan in which it is 
baked ? 

(11) (o) Give the general proportion of liquid and flour used for butter 
cake. (6) What makes this proportion vary? 

(12) Give the steps necessary for mixing the ingredients of butter cake. 

(13) Describe the baking of butter cake. 

(14) (a) How can you tell when butter cake is sufficiently baked? 
(b) How is it removed from the pan and cooled? 

(15) What is the value of cake icing? 

(16) (a) What ingredients are used to make the simplest icings? 
(6) What kind of sugar is best for uncooked icings? 

(17) What kind of icing should be used for sponge cake? Tell why. 

(18) How is the surface of a cake that is to be decorated with an orna- 
mental design prepared? 

(19) (a) Describe the icing of a layer cake. (&) How may a rough 
surface of icing be made smooth? 

(20) (a) Tell how boiled icing is made. (6) What is the test for deter- 
mining when the sirup is boiled sufficiently? 

§18 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 

(PART 2) 



SMALL, CAKES 



VARIETIES OP SMALL CAKES 

1. Under the heading Small Cakes are included numerous 
varieties of cakes made of many different kinds of materials and 
baked in various shapes and sizes. Some of them, such as meringues 
and kisses, contain nothing except eggs and sugar and consequently 
are almost confections. On the other hand, many of them, including 
cookies of all kinds, drop cakes, ladyfingers, etc., are merely the 
usual sponge- and butter-cake mixtures altered in such ways as may 
be desired. In addition, there are cream puffs and eclairs, the 
various kinds of cakes made with yeast, and doughnuts and crullers, 
all of which, while not exactly cake mixtures, are similar enough to 
small cakes in preparation and use to be discussed in connection 
with them. 

2. Nature of Mixtures for Small Calces. — The mixtures 
used for small cakes are made into batters and doughs of various 
thicknesses. For instance, the batter used for cup cakes is as thin as 
that for layer cake ; that for drop cakes must be stiff enough to hold 
its shape when it is dropped on a flat sheet ; while cookies require a 
dough that is stiff enough to be rolled out in a thin layer and then 
cut into various shapes with cutters. The mixing of cakes of this 
kind differs in no way from that of large cakes, the greater thickness 
being obtained merely by the addition of flour. 

3. Baking Small Calces. — Small cakes bake more quickly 
than large ones; consequently, a hotter oven is required for them. 
Cookies will bake in 10 to 15 minutes. They should rise and start 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§19 



2 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

to brown in one-half of this time, and should finish browning and 
shrink slightly in the remaining half. Drop cakes require a little 
more time than cookies. They should rise during the first third of 
the time, brown slightly during the second, and finish browning and 
shrink during the last third. Cup cakes being larger require from 
15 to 25 minutes to bake, depending on their size. They should rise 
and brown in the same way as drop cakes. The baking of most of 
the other varieties demands special attention and is discussed in con- 
nection with the cakes themselves. 

When the majority of small cakes, including cookies, are put into 
the oven to bake, they should be set on the lower rack. Then, when 
the browning has started, they should be changed to the upper rack, 
where they will brown more quickly. This transfer may also be 
necessary in the case of the larger sized cup cakes. 

Small cakes baked in muffin pans should be allowed to stand for 
several minutes after being removed from the oven in order to cool. 
Then a knife or a spatula should be run around the edge to loosen 
each cake from the pan. If the pan is then turned upside down and 
tapped lightly once or twice, the cakes will, as a rule, come out in 
good condition. Cookies and drop cakes should be taken from their 
pans or sheets while warm and then allowed to cool on a cake cooler 
or on clean towels spread on a table. 



PREPARATION OF SMALL CAKES 



CUP AND DROP CAKES 

4. Nature of Cup and Drop Cakes. — Cup cakes are a 

variety of small cakes baked in muffin pans. Many of the mixtures 
used for large cakes may be made into cup cakes by baking them in 
pans of this kind. Instead of pouring the mixture into the pans 
from the bowl, as is done in the case of large cakes, it is put into 
them by means of a spoon, as shown in Fig. 1. The pans should be 
filled only about half full in order to give the mixture an oppor- 
tunity to rise. When the cakes are baked, they usually reach the top 
of the pans. 

5. Cup cakes may be served plain or they may be iced in any 
desired way. Fig. 2 shows a group of cakes of this kind, the three on 
the right being cup cakes without any icing or decoration and the rest, 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



cup cakes iced and then decorated in a variety of ways. As will be 
observed, cup cakes lend themselves well to decoration. The mate- 
rials used here for the decorating are chiefly citron and maraschino 




Fig. 1 



cherries, both of which may be cut into a variety of shapes. The 
cakes are first covered with a white icing for a foundation, and the 
decorative materials are applied before it becomes dry. Other 



^^^^^^^^T'l^- 


HT-'r^a 




m 


^■' 


^^K^^*^^ 


ftfj 


K J 


£^IHH 


m^'- 


P'3 




S5^ * * ' I'll 


iK 


^^^^^^k^^'- 
'.»■.":■ 



Fig. 2 

materials may, of course, be used for decorating cup cakes, and 
original designs may be worked out in a number of attractive ways. 

6.. Drop cakes differ from cup cakes in that a stiffer batter is 
used and the mixture is then dropped from a spoon on a greased and 
floured cooky sheet. As shown in Fig. 3, which illustrates a plate of 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§19 



drop cakes ready to serve, cakes of this kind are not generally iced. 
However, the mixture used for them often contains fruits and nuts. 

7. Recipes for Cup and Drop Cakes. — Several recipes for 
cup cakes and drop cakes are here given. No difficulty will be 
experienced in carrying out any of them if the suggestions already 
given are appHed. With each recipe is mentioned the approximate 




Fig. 3 

number of cakes the recipe will make. The exact number it will 

produce will depend, of course, on the size of the cakes ; the smaller 

they are the greater will be their number. 

Cup Cakes 
(Sufficient for IJ Dozen Cakes) 

f c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

2 c. sugar ^ tsp. mace 

4 eggs 1 c. milk 

3;| c. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Beat the eggs and add them. 
Sift the flour, baking powder, and mace together, and add alternately 
with the milk. Flavor with the vanilla, put into greased and floured 
muffin pans, and bake. Cover with chocolate icing and serve. 

Brownies 
(Sufficient for 1 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. butter 1 :J c. flour 

i c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

i c. molasses i tsp. soda 

1 egg I c. chopped nut meats 

Cream tne butter, add the sugar and molasses, beat the egg and 
add it. Mix the flour, baking powder, and soda together, and sift 
into the mixture. Fold in the chopped nut meats, put in thin layers 
into muffin pans, and bake in a hot oven until done. Remove from 
the pans, cool, and serve. 



§19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 5 

Cinnamon Cup Cakes 

(SuiScient for 1 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. butter 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar 1 Tb. cinnamon 

2 eggs i c. milk 
4 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Beat the eggs and add them. 
Sift the baking powder, flour, and cinnamon together, and add alter- 
nately with the milk. Put into greased and floured muffin pans 
and bake. 

Cocoa Cup Cakes 

(Sufficient for 15 Dozen Cakes) 

^ c. shortening ^ tsp. soda 

li c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs f c. milk 

2 c. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

■J c. cocoa 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar. Beat the eggs and add 
them. Sift the flour, cocoa, soda, and baking powder together and 
add alternately with the milk. Flavor with the vanilla, put into 
greased and floured muffin pans, and bake in a hot oven. Remove 
from the pans, cool, and serve. If desired, these cakes may be iced 
with white icing and sprinkled with coconut. 

RoxBURY Cakes 

(Sufficient for 1 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. butter i tsp. cinnamon 

■J c. sugar i tsp. ground cloves 

2 eggs li tsp. baking powder 

I c. molasses | tsp. soda 

^ c. milk f c. raisins 

If c. flour i c. English walnut meats 

i tsp. nutmeg 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Beat the eggs and 
add them. Add the molasses and milk. Mix and sift the dry ingre- 
dients and stir these into the first mixture. Fold in the finely chopped 
raisins and nuts. Bake in a moderate oven and ice with white icing. 

Apple-Sauce Cakes 

(Sufficient for li Dozen Cakes) 

i c. butter 1^ tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar i tsp. cloves 

2 c. flour 1 tsp. nutmeg 

■J tsp. soda 1 c. apple sauce 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 c. raisins 



6 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Sift the dry ingre- 
dients together and add alternately with the apple sauce made accord- 
ing to the following directions. Stir in the raisins dredged with a 
little of the flour. Bake in muffin pans in a moderate oven for about 
15 minutes. 

Apple Sauce 
1 qt. apples -J c. sugar 

1 c. water 
Peel and quarter the apples. Put them to cook in the water. 
When soft, force through a sieve, add the sugar, and return to the 
fire until the sugar is dissolved. Cool and use for the cakes. 
Sour-Milk Drop Cakes 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. butter i tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 egg -J c. nut meats 

4 c. sour milk i c. raisins 
2^ c. flour 
Cream che butter and add the sugar, the beaten egg, and the milk. 
Sift the flour, soda, and baking powder together and add them. Fold 
in the nuts and raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased and floured 
cake sheet. Bake rather slowly, remove from the sheet, cool, and 
serve. 

Fruit Drop Cakes 
(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Cakes) 

ic. shortening 2 tsp. baking powder 

§ c. sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg i tsp. cloves 

i c. milk i tsp. nutmeg 

If c. flour I c. raisins 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar, egg, and milk. Sift the 
flour, baking powder, and spices together. Sift these dry ingredients 
into the mixture and add the raisins. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased 
and floured cake sheet and bake in a hot oven until light brown. 
Oat-Flake Drop Cakes 

(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. shortening 2 c. flour 

1 c. sugar i tsp. salt 

1 egfg 3 tsp. baking powder 

2 c. oat flakes 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1 tsp. vanilla i c. milk 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar. Beat the egg and add 
to the mixture. Add the oat flakes and vanilla. Sift the flour, salt, 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



baking powder, and cinnamon together and add alternately with the 
milk. Drop on greased pans to bake. 

Ginger Drop Cakes 

(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. shortening i tsp. salt 

■J c. brown sugar -J Tb. ginger 

1 egg i c. sour milk 

24 c. flour i c. molasses 

I tsp. soda 

Cream the shortening, add the sugar, and mix well. Beat the egg 
and add it. Sift the dry ingredients and add alternately with the 
milk and molasses. Drop on greased sheets and bake in a moderate 
oven for about 15 or 20 minutes. 

8. Applying Ornamental Icing to Cup Cakes. — Some- 
times it is desired to put icing on cup cakes in an ornamental way. 
In such an event, an uncooked icing is used and it is usually applied 
by means of a pastry tube, although certain simple designs can be 
made with a small paper 
cornucopia. When icing 
is to be used for this pur- 
pose, it should be of the 
consistency shown in 
Fig. 4 ; that is, it should 
be so heavy that a large 
quantity of it will cling 
to the spoon, and when 
it drops it will fall in a 
mass rather than run off. 

Have the pastry bag 
clean and dry, and make 
it ready for use by slip- 
ping the pastry tube 
inside of the bag, as 
shown in Fig. 5. The 
point of the tube should protrude from the narrow end of the 
bag, which is too small to allow the top of the tube to be pushed 
through. The cakes to be decorated with the aid of a pastry tube 
are usually prepared, as the cake in the illustration shows, by 
covering it with a perfectly smooth coating of uncooked icing of 
some kind 




Fig. 4 



8 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§19 




Fig. 5 



With the tube inserted and the cake coated, the work of decorating 
may be taken up. Roll the top of the bag down, as shown in Fig. 6, 

and into it put as much 
of the icing as is desired. 
See that the icing is 
pushed as far down into 
the end of the bag as 
possible. Then, as in 
Fig. 7, hold the top of 
the bag shut with one 
hand and with the other 
grasp it at the place 
where the contents end. 
When the hands have 
been so placed, press 
down on the bag so 
that the icing will be 
forced from the point of 
the tube. To make the decorations most satisfactorily, have the 
point of the tube pressed tightly against the surface of the cake and 
raise it very slowly as the icing comes out. Otherwise the shape 
of the design will not be 
good, as a little experi- 
menting will prove. The 
rosette tube is used to 
make the decorations 
here shown, but if a dif- 
ferent form of decora- 
tion is desired, one of 
the other tubes may be 
selected. 

9. With cakes of this 
kind, it is often desired 
to have a simple decora- 
tion without first apply- 
ing the foundation icing. 
This can be done, as 
shown in Fig. 8, by pressing icing through a pastry bag containing 
the rosette tube and placing the decoration iiierely on the center 




Fig. 6 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



of each cake. This is suggested as an economical use of icing 
and a decoration a little 
out of the ordinary. 
The points of the pastry 
tube should be bent to- 
ward the center in order 
to produce the rosettes in 
the manner here shown. 
In fact, the shape of a 
rosette can often be 
changed to some extent 
by opening or closing 
these points a trifle. 




COOKIES 

10. Classes of 
Cookies. — Cookies are 
of two general classes: 

those which are made thick and are expected to be soft when they 
are served arid those which are made thin and are intended to be 

crisp and brittle when 

^1 eaten. Thin, crisp cook- 

'^M ies are usually known as 

\^M wafers or snaps. Soft 

^H cookies are made from 

^^Bk a dough that contains a 

^^^H little more liquid than 

^^^H that used for bi'ittle 

^^^1 cookies. The dough of 

mm which both varieties are 

made should be thick 

enough to remove from 

the mixing bowl in a 

lump and roll out on a 

board. After being 

rolled until it is the 

„ „ desired thickness, it is 

Fig. 8 _ _ ' 

cut into pieces of any 
desired size and shape and baked in the oven on large flat pans. 




10 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

11. Ingredients in Cookies. — The ingredients used in the 
making of cookies are similar to those used for drop cakes, with the 
exception of the amount of flour. In fact, any cooky mixture that is 
made a Httle more moist by omitting some of the flour may be used 
for drop cakes. More flour is needed in cooky mixtures because they 
must be of a certain thickness in order to be rolled out successfully. 
The amount of flour needed varies with the kind that is used, more 
of some varieties of this ingredient being required than of others. 
It is usually advisable to add the last cup of flour with caution. If 
the mixture seems to be getting stifif before all the flour is added, 
what is not needed should be omitted ; but if it does not become stiff 
enough to handle, more should be added. 

12. Considerable variety exists in the shortening that may be 
used in cooky mixtures. If desired, butter may be used, but for 
most cookies it is not at all necessary that the shortening consist 
entirely of butter, and for some no butter at all is required. Other 
fats and oils, such as lard, Crisco, lard compound, Mazola, cottoline, 
butterine, and any other tasteless shortening, may be substituted for 
all or part of the butter. Any of the following cooky recipes that 
contain butter do so because that particular cooky or cake is better 
when made with butter, but, if desired, some other fat may be used 
for a part or all of it. In case merely shortening is mentioned, any 
fat or mixture of fats preferred may be used. 

13. Procedure in Making Cookies. — The combining of the 
ingredients in cooky mixtures need give the housewife very little 
concern, for it is accomplished in much the same way as for cup and 
drop cakes. When all of them have been combined, a dough that is 
stiff enough to handle and still not so stiff that it is tough should be 
formed. The chief precaution to be taken in the making of all kinds 
of cookies is to avoid getting too much flour into the mixture. To 
produce the best results, the mixture should be so soft that it is diffi- 
cult to handle. A good plan is to allow it to become very cold, for 
then it will be much stiffer and may be handled more easily. There- 
fore, after the dough has been mixed, it is well to set it in a refrig- 
erator or some other cool place and let it stand for several hours 
before attempting to roll it. In fact, a cooky mixture may be made 
in the evening and allowed to stand until the next morning before 
being rolled out and baked. As can readily be understood, such pro- 
cedure is possible with a stiff mixture like that for cookies, while it 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



11 



would not be practicable with a thin mixture, such as cake batter, 
because the gas that is formed by the leavening agent would escape 
from a mixture that is not thick and the cake, after being baked, 
would have no lightness. 

14. With the dough ready to be rolled, divide it into amounts of 
a size that can be handled conveniently at one time. Take one of 
these from the mixing bowl and place it on a well-floured board. 
Work it with the fingers into a flat, round piece, using a little flour 
on the fingers during this process. Dust the top lightly with flour 
and, by means of a rolling pin, roll the dough into a flat piece that is 
as nearly round as possible. Continue rolling with a short, light 
stroke until the dough is as thin as desired. Remember that light, 
careful handling is always necessary when any kind of dough mix- 




FiG. 9 

ture is rolled on the board, and that as little handling as possible is 
advisable. Skill in this respect will come with practice, so the house- 
wife need not be discouraged if she has difficulty at first. For 
cookies, ^ inch is the usual thickness of the dough after it is 
rolled; but for snaps or wafers the dough should be rolled as thin 
as possible. If the dough is as moist as it should be, it may be neces- 
sary, from time to time, to dust the top with flour as the rolling 
continues. However, no more flour should be used than is needed 
to keep the rolling pin from sticking; otherwise, the dough will 
become too thick and the cookies will be tough and dry. 

15. When the dough has been rolled until it is of the right thick- 
ness, cut it in the manner shown in Fig. 9, using cooky cutters of any 
desired size and shape. The four cutters shown, which are heart, 

W I^C 4—13 



12 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

round, diamond, and star shapes, are the ones that are most com- 
monly used. They are merely strips of tin bent into a particular 
shape and attached to a handle for convenience in using. In cutting 
the dough, try to cut it to the best possible advantage, leaving as 
little space between the cookies as possible. Very often, as, for 
instance, when diamond-shaped cookies are being cut, the line of 
one may be the exact line of the one next to it and thus no dough 
need be left between the cookies. 

16. However, as Fig. 9 shows, a certain amount of dough neces- 
sarily remains after all the cookies that can be made out of a piece of 
rolled dough have been cut. Put these scraps together and set them 
aside until all the fresh dough has been rolled. Then put them 
together carefully, roll them out again, and cut the piece thus formed 




Fig. 10 

into cookies just as the others were cut. Some persons are in the 
habit of working these scraps in with the next piece of dough that 
is rolled out, but this is not good practice, for by the time they are 
rolled on the board a second time, more flour will be worked into 
them than into the dough with which they were put and the texture 
will not be the same. 

17. Baking Cookies. — Have a cooky sheet or other large 
shallow pan greased and floured, and as soon as all the cookies are 
cut from a piece of dough, pick them up with the aid of a spatula, as 
in Fig. 9, and arrange them on the pan. Do not place them too close 
together, or upon baking they will stick to one another and lose their 
shape. As soon as a pan is filled, set it in the oven, either directly 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 13 

on the bottom or on a low rack. If the temperature of the oven is 
correct, the cookies should begin to rise within 2 or 3 minutes after 
they are put into the oven. After they have baked on the bottom 
and have risen as much as they will, they will appear as shown in 
Fig. 10. At this point, set them on a higher rack to brown on top. 
In this browning, they will shrink to some extent, so that the 
finished cookies will not have so smooth an appearance as when they 
are placed on the top rack. When done, they should be slightly 
brown, and if it is found that they are too brown on top, it may be 
known that the oven temperature was a little too high or perhaps 
that they should have had a little less time on this rack. Molasses 
cookies require special care to prevent them from burning, for, as is 
explained in Hot Breads, any food containing molasses burns readily. 




Fig. 11 

A comparatively short time is necessary tor the baking of cookies, 
but they should be left in the oven long enough to be thoroughly 
baked when removed. When ready to serve, properly baked cookies 
should appear as in Fig. 11. 

18. Recipes for Cookies. — ^With the principles of cooky 
making well understood, the housewife is fully qualified to try any 
of the recipes that follow. As will be noted, a number of recipes 
are here given and so a pleasing variety may be had. Some of them 
are suitable for certain occasions and some for others. For instance, 
barley-molasses cookies are very good with coffee for breakfast, 
while filled cookies make an excellent cake for picnic lunches. Cream 
cookies or vanilla wafers could be served at an afternoon tea, while 
sand tarts make a very good accompaniment for ice cream or some 



ii CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §19 

other dainty dessert. The nature of the cooky will enable the house- 
wife to determine when it should be served. 

Ginger Snaps 

(Sufficient for 4 Dozen Snaps) 

1 c. molasses 3J c. flour 

i c. lard or J tsp. soda 

other shortening 1 Tb. ginger 

I c. butter 1 tsp. salt 

Heat the molasses to boiling and pour over the shortening. Sift 
the dry ingredients together and add these. Cool the mixture until 
it is stiff and cold, roll as thin as possible, cut with a small round 
cutter, and bake in a quick oven, being careful not to bum. 

Cream Cookies 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen C^kies) 

i c. butter 4 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. salt 

2 eggs i tsp. mace 
i c. thin cream 3 c. flour 

1 tsp. vanilla 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, eggs, thir cream, and vanilla. 
Sift the baking powder, salt, mace, and flour together and add these 
to the mixture. Roll about i inch thick and cut. Bake in a hot oven. 

Vanilla Wafers 

(Sufficient for 6 Dozen Wafers) 

i c. shortening 2 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. sugar 2 c. flour 

1 ^gg 3 "sp. baking powder 

i c. milk ^ tsp. salt 

Cream the shortening, add the sugar and egg, and continue beating. 
Pour in the milk and add the vanilla. Sift the flour, baking powder, 
and salt into the mixture. Roll out as thin as possible, cut with a 
small round cutter, and bake in a hot oven. These wafers should be 
crisp and thin when finished. 

Barley-Molasses Cookies 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cookies) 

1 c. molasses 1 c. barley flour 
i c. shortening 2 tsp. ginger 

i c. milk , 1 tsp. soda 

2 c. wheat flour i tsp. salt 

Heat the molasses, pour it over the shortening, and add the miik. 
Sift the dry ingredients together, and add to the mixture. Cool, roll 
about i inch thick, cut, and bake in a quick oven, being careful not 
to burp. 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 15 

Oatmeal Cookies 
(Sufficient for 3i Dozen Cookies) 

1 egg 2 c. flour 

i c. sug-ar 2 tsp. baking powder 

i c. thin cream 1 tsp. salt 

I c. milk 4 Tb. melted butter 

I c. oatmeal 
Beat the egg and add the sugar, cream, and milk. Run the oat- 
meal through a food chopper, and mix with the flour, baking powder, 
and salt. Stir all into the mixture, add the melted butter, and mix 
thoroughly. Roll thin, cut, and bake in a quick oven. 

Sand Tarts 

(Sufficient for 6 Dozen Tarts) 

^ c. shortening 2 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar ^ tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg 1 egg white 

If c. flour Blanched almonds 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar and the egg. Sift together 
the flour, baking powder, and cinnamon, and add these to the mix- 
ture. Fold in the beaten egg white. Roll as thin as possible and 
cut. Split blanched almonds, and after putting the cookies on the 
cooky sheet, place several halves of almonds in any desirable positior 
on the cookies. Bake in a quick oven until light brown. 

Highland Dainties 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cookies) 

2 c. flour I c. butter 

i c. brown sugar 1 egg yolk 

Mix and sift the flour and sugar and work in the butter with the 

fingers. Roll out about ^ inch thick and cut into any desirable 

shape with small cutters. Brush with the egg yolk to which has been 

added 1 teaspoonf ul of water. Bake in a slow oven until light brown. 

Filled Cookies 
(Sufficient for 11 Dozen Cookies) 

i c. shortening 3 c. flour 

1 c. sugar 3 tsp. baking powder 

1 egg i tsp. salt 

i c. milk 2 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar gradually. Next add the 
beaten egg and the milk. Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt 
together and add to the mixture. Add the vanilla. Roll very thin 
and cut into small round, square, or diamond shapes. Spread one 
cooky with the following filling, cover with a second, press the edges 
together, and bake in a quick oven. 



16 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §19 

Filling for Cookies 
1 c. sugar 1^ c. chopped raisins 

1 Tb. flour I c. nut meats 

I c. boiling water 
Mix the sugar and flour and stir them into the boiling water. 
Add the raisins and let cook until thick enough to spread on the 
cookies. Remove from the fire and add the nut meats. Cool slightly 
and spread. Figs or dates may be used in place of the raisins. 

If it is not desired to prepare a filling for the cookies, jam makes 
a very good substitute. 

Sour-Cream Cookies 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cookies) 

i c. butter ^ tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 3i c. flour 

i pt. thick sour cream | tsp. lemon extract 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs, and beat thoroughly. 
Add the cream. Sift the soda, baking powder, and flour and add 
to the first mixture. Add the lemon extract, roll out thick, and 
sprinkle with sugar. Cut with a round cutter, place on greased and 
floured tins, and bake. 



KISSES AND MACAROONS 

19. Nature of Kisses and. Macaroons. — The varieties of 
small cakes known as kisses and macaroons are undoubtedly the 
daintiest ones that are made. Composed almost entirely of sugar, 
egg whites, and flavoring, they are very delicate in texture and are 
practically confections. Kisses do not contain any flour, but maca- 
roons need a small amount of this ingredient and some varieties ot 
them contain the yolks, as well as the whites, of eggs. Chopped or 
ground nuts, coconut, and various kinds of dried or candied fruits 
are added to these cakes to give them variety. 

20. The mixtures of which these cakes are made are either 
dropped by spoonfuls or forced through a pastry bag into little 
mounds or rosettes on an inverted pan or a cooky sheet and then 
baked in a very slow oven. An oven of this kind is necessary, for the 
mixtures must be practically dried out in the baking. Meringues, 
although made of a mixture similar to that used for kisses, are 
usually made in rather large, round, flat shapes, whereas kisses are 
smaller and are for the most part made in the shape of rosettes. 
Fig. 12 shows a plate of kisses ready lo serve. 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



17 



21. Marguerites, while not exactly the same as either kisses or 
macaroons, are given in this connection because the mixture used 




Fig. 12 

for them is similar to that for kisses. These, as shown in Fig. 13, 
are in reality saltines covered with a mixture of e.gg and sugar to 
which nuts, coconut, flavoring, etc. may be added for variety. After 
the sugar covering has been applied, the saltines are set in the oven 
and baked until slightly brown on top. This variety of small cakes, 
as well as kisses and meringues, is excellent for serving with after- 
noon tea, or with ice cream at a party that is to be very dainty. 

22. Recipes for Kisses and Macaroons. — One recipe for 
kisses, several recipes for macaroons, and directions for the prepara- 
tion of marguerites follow. If meringues are desired, the recipe for 




Fig. 13 



kisses may be followed and the mixture then dropped by spoonfuls, 
instead of being forced through a pastry tube. 



18 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Kisses or Meringues 
(Sufficient for 1 to 2 Dozen Cakes) 

i c. fine granulated sugar, or 2 egg whites 

I c. and 2 Tb. powdered sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Fine granulated or powdered sugar may be used for these cakes. 
If powdered sugar is selected, a little more will be required than of 
granulated. Only fresh eggs should be employed. Separate them 
and beat the whites with an egg whip, beating slowly at first and 
more rapidly as the eggs grow stiff. When they have become very 
stiff, add a tablespoonful of the sugar and continue the beating. 
When this has been beaten thoroughly, add another tablespoonful, 
and continue to add sugar in small amounts and to beat until all 
has been worked in. Add the vanilla. Moisten with cold water a 
board that is about 1 inch thick, place over it some heavy white paper, 
and force the mixture through a pastry bag or drop by spoonfuls on 
the paper. Place the board containing the kisses in a very slow oven, 
one so slow that instead of baking the kisses it will really dry them. 
If the oven is too warm, open the oven door slightly to prevent the 
temperature from rising too high. Bake until the kisses are dry and 
then remove them from the oven. 

If desired, the inside of the meringues, which is soft, may be 
removed and the shell filled with a filling of some kind. Plain 
whipped cream or whipped cream to which fresh strawberries and 
sugar are added makes an excellent filling for this purpose. In fact, 
meringues filled and garnished with whipped cream make a very 
delightful dessert. 

Pecan Macaroons 

(Sufficient for li Dozen Cakes) 

1 egg white 1 c. pecan meats 

1 c. brown sugar J tsp. salt 

Beat the egg white until stiff and add the sugar gradually, beating 

constantly. Fold in the nut meats, add the salt, and then drop from 

the tip of a spoon 1 or 2 inches apart on a cooky sheet covered with 

buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven until delicately browned. 

Almond Macaroons 
(Sufficient for li Dozen Cakes) 

i lb. almonds 2 egg whites 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Blanch the almonds and force them through a food chopper. Mix 
the ground almonds and powdered sugar, and gradually add the 
beaten egg whites until a mixture of the consistency of a stiff dough is 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 19 

formed. Force through a pastry bag or drop with a spoon on a 
cooky sheet covered with buttered paper. The macaroon mixture 
spreads during the baking, so space will have to be left between the 
cakes. Bake in a very slow oven. After removing from the oven, 
cover for a few minutes with a moist cloth in order to loosen the 
macaroons. 

Coconut Macaroons 

(Sufficient for IJ Dozen Cakes) 

1 c. powdered sugar 2 egg whites 

1 c. shredded coconut 

Mix the sugar and coconut. Beat the egg whites and fold into the 
coconut and sugar. Drop by spoonfuls on a cooky sheet covered 
with waxed paper and bake in a slow oven. 

Oatmeal-Fruit Macaroons 
(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cakes) 

2 eggs ^ c. raisins, cut in small pieces 

i c. sugar 2| c. rolled oats 

I c. corn sirup | tsp. salt 
1 Tb. melted shortening 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar, sirup, and shortening. Fold in the 
fruit, rolled oats, and salt. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased cooky 
sheet and bake in a moderate oven. 

Marguerites 
(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cakes) 

f c. sugar i c. shredded coconut 

i c. water ^ c. chopped nuts 

1 egg white 

Cook the sugar and water until it forms a hard ball when tested in 
cold water or threads from a spoon. Beat the egg white until stiff, 
pour the hot sirup into it, and continue beating until the mixture is 
stiff enough not to run. Add the coconut and chopped nuts and 
spread a thick layer on saltines. Place in a moderate oven and bake 
until slightly browned. 



I.ADYFINGERS AND SPONGE DROPS 

23. The mixture used for ladyfingers is in reality a sponge-cake 
mixture, but it is baked in a certain oblong shape known as a lady- 
finger shape. Shallow pans that will bake the mixture in the required 
shape can be purchased, but these need not be secured, for much 
more satisfactory results can be obtained with a pastry bag and tube 
after a little practice. The same mixture may be dropped by spoon- 



20 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§19 



fuls and baked in small round cakes known as sponge drops. Both 
ladyfingers and sponge drops, after being baked, are put together in 
twos by means of a simple sugar icing. Care should be exercised in 
their baking to prevent them from burning. 

Small cakes of these varieties are very satisfactory to serve with a 
rich gelatine or cream dessert. Then, again, such cakes, especially 
ladyfingers, are sometimes molded into a frozen dessert or placed in 
a mold in which a gelatine dessert is solidified. Often they are 
served with sweetened and flavored whipped cream; in fact, no 
matter how stale or fresh they may be, they help to make very deli- 
cious desserts. 

Ladyfingers No. 1 

(Sufficient for 15 Dozen Cakes) 

3 egg whites i tsp. vanilla 

i c. powdered sugar i c. flour 

2 egg yolks i tsp. salt 

Beat the egg whites until they are stiff and dry. Add the sugar 
gradually and continue beating. Beat the two egg yolks until 




Fig. 14 



they are thick and lemon-colored and add them. Add the flavoring 
and fold in the flour mixed and sifted with the salt. Cover a cooky 
sheet with light wrapping paper that is perfectly smooth and marked 
into spaces 4^ in. long by 1^ in. wide, as shown in Fig. 14. With the 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



21 



aid of a spoon, as illustrated, fill the ladyfinger mixture into a pastry 
bag containing a plain pastry tube. Then, from the pastry tube, 
squeeze the cake mixture onto the marked spaces, as shown in 




.■a;.' :.-^ 



Fig. 15 



Fig. 15, making the mass slightly narrower in the center than at the 
ends. When all the spaces have been filled, set the pan containing 
the sheet in a slow oven and bake until dry. Remove from the oven 
and take from the paper by slipping a sharp knife under each lady- 




FiG. 16 



finger, ii the ladyfingers are to be used for cake, they must be put 
together in pairs with the following simple filling, and they will then 
appear as in Fig. 16. 



22 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Filling for Ladyfingees 
Juice of 1 orange Sufficient sugar to spread 
Beat the orange juice and sugar together until smooth. Place a 
layer of the mixture between each two ladyfingers. 

Ladyfingees No. 2 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Cakes) 

6 eggs 1 c. flour 

1 J c. powdered sugar Juice of half a lemon 

Separate the eggs and beat the whites with an egg whip until stiff. 
Sift the sugar and flour together several times, add a little to the 
eggs, and continue beating. Continue to add the sugar and flour, a 
little at a time, until all has been added. Beat the egg yolks until 
they are light and lemon-colored and then beat them into the mix- 
ture. Add the lemon juice and force the mixture through a pastry 
tube in the same way as described in the preceding recipe. Bake in 
a slow oven. When cool, put together with the orange filling. 



CAKES MADE TVITH YEAST 

24. A few varieties of cake are made light by means of yeast 
instead of being leavened with eggs or chemical leavening agents. 
These cakes are, of course, similar to bread in many respects, but 
they are sweeter and richer than bread and contain eggs. For this 
reason they are not economical mixtures and should not be made if 
economy must be practiced. Because of the sugar, butter, and eggs 
used in them, the action of the yeast is slow ; consequently, the 
processes involved in making these mixtures are neither short nor 
simple. Often, after they have been baked in a mold, the center is 
removed and the shells are then filled with different mixtures to 
make a variety of desserts. 

Brioche 
1 c. milk 4i c. flour 

IJ yeast cakes 3 egg yolks 

i c. sugar 3 whole eggs 

§ c. butter ^ tsp. lemon extract 

Scald the milk, cool until lukewarm, and then add the yeast cakes. 
When they are thoroughly dissolved, add the sugar, the butter, which 
has been softened but not melted, and half of the flour. Add the 
egg yolks and beat with the hands. Add the eggs one at a time and 
when all have been beaten in thoroughly, continue to add more flour. 
After all of the flour and also the lemon extract have been added and 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 23 

the mixture is of a consistency to knead, allow it to rise for 6 hours. 
Punch down and place in the ice box or some other cool place over- 
night. In the morning, the mixture will be ready to bake in whatever 
shape is desirable. 

The four recipes that follow show various ways in which the 
brioche may be used to make attractive as well as appetizing desserts. 

CoFjFEE Cakes 
Roll the brioche mixture into a long rectangular piece about i inch 
thick. Spread with softened butter, fold one-third of the side over 
the center and the opposite side on top of that, making three layers. 
Cut this into strips about f inch wide, cover, and let rise. When 
light, twist the ends of each piece in the opposite direction, coil, and 
bring the ends together on the top of the cake. Let rise in pans for 
20 minutes, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. 
Upon removing from the oven, brush with confectioner's sugar 
moistened with enough water to allow it to spread. 

Brioche Buns 
Work i cupful of raisins and ^ cupful of chopped nut meats into 
half of the brioche mixture. Shape into balls about the size of a 
walnut, and then place close together in a buttered pan. Brush over 
the top with 1 tablespoonful of sugar dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls 
of milk. Bake in a moderate oven for about 25 minutes. Brush a 
second time with the sugar-and-milk mixture and allow the buns to 
remain in the oven until they are well browned. 

Brioche Dessert 

Fill muffin pans about one-half full with the brioche mixture. 
Allow it to rise nearly to the top, bake in a slow oven, remove when 
sufficiently baked, and cool. Remove the center from each mold, 
leaving a shell. The centers may be toasted and served separately. 
Put a teaspoonful or two of any desirable preserves or marmalade 
into the shells, fill with sweetened and flavored whipped cream, and 
over the top sprinkle chopped nuts. This dessert should be prepared 
just before serving. 

Brioche Pudding 

Take enough of the brioche sponge to fill a good-sized mold two- 
thirds full. Work into this i cupful of raisins cut into small pieces, 
i cupful of candied cherries, 4 cupful of chopped nuts, and J cupful 
of coconut. Place in a mold and allow it to rise until the mold is 
dearJy full. Bake from 45 minutes to 1 hour, turn out of the mold, 



24 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §19 

and allow to become cold. Cut into thick slices with a knife that has 
been heated in the flame, and serve with apricot or pineapple sauce. 

Apple Cake 

(Su^cient for Three Good-Sized Cakes) 

2 c. milk f c. butter 

1 yeast cake 8J c. flour 

1 tsp. salt 3 eggs 

J c. sugar Apples 

Scald the milk and cool it to lukewarm. Add the yeast, salt, sugar, 
and butter, which has been softened but not melted. Add half of the 
flour and beat in the eggs. When all has been mixed thoroughly, add 
suiificient flour to make a stiff dough. Knead for a short time and 
place in a bowl to rise. When risen until double in bulk, roll a piece 
of the dough ^ inch thick to fit a rectangular pan. Allow this to rise 
until it is light. Peel apples, cut into halves and then into thick slices, 
and rub them with lemon so they will not discolor. \\'hen the bread 
mixture is light, place the apples on the top in rows. Sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon and bake in a quick oven. Serve with butter or 
sugar and cream. 

Swedish Tea Ring 
Roll a large piece of the mixture used for apple cake into a rec- 
tangular shape from i to J inch thick, brush with butter, sprinkle with 




Fig. 17 

sugar and cinnamon and, if desired, with raisins or chopped nuts. 
Roll like a jelly roll, and place the two ends together on a cooky sheet 
so as to form a ring. Try, if possible, to conceal the joining by 
fastening the ends together carefully. The best way to do this is to 
cut a slice from each end before joining. Then, with a scissors, cut 
through the edge of the ring nearly to the center and slightly at a 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



25 



slant, as in Fig. 17. Make the cuts about 1 inch apart and turn the 
cut sHces over so as to show the layers of dough. Brush with milk. 




Fig. 18 



dredge with sugar, and bake for about ^ hour, 
cake should appear as shown in Fig. 18. 



When baked, this 



cre:am puffs and j^clairs 

25. A delicious form of dessert that is usually classed with small 
cakes includes cream puffs and eclairs. They are made of a special 
kind of paste that, when baked, becomes hollow in the center, very 
much as popovers do. The inside is then filled with a mixture 




Fig. 19 



similar to a custard mixture or with sweetened and flavored whipped 
cream. Many persons have an idea that these mixtures are very 
difficult to make, but the fact is that they may be easily made if the 
directions for preparing them are carefully followed. 



26 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§19 



26. After the paste has been mixed, the way it is to be treated 
will depend on whether cream puffs or eclairs are to be made. For 
cream puffs, which are shown m Fig. 19, it is dropped by spoonfuls 
on a cooky sheet or a large pan, while in the case of eclairs, several 
of which are shown in Fig. 20, it is forced through a large round 
pastry tube so as to form long strips. The shapes are then baked in 
a hot oven, and during this process they puff up and become hollow 
in the center. If, upon attempting to fill the shells thus made, the 
centers are found to contain a little moist, doughy material, this may 
be removed. The filling may then be introduced either by cutting a 
slit in the side and putting it in with a spoon or by inserting the end 
of a pastry tube into the shell and forcing it in with a pastry bag 
and tube. In addition to being filled with a filling of some kind, 
eclairs are covered, as here shown, with an icing that usually corre- 




FiG. 20 

spends in flavor with the filling. For instance, chocolate eclairs are 
filled with a chocolate filling and covered with a chocolate icing, 
while coffee eclairs have a coffee filling and a coffee icing. 

Very small cream puffs are attractive and are often served with 
small cakes for an afternoon tea or a buffet luncheon. These may 
be made by dropping the paste with a teaspoon on a cooky sheet, 
baking it until done, and then filling the shells with any desired paste. 

Cream Puffs 

(Sufficient for 1 Dozen Cream Puffs) 

i c. butter 1 c. flour 

1 c. boiling water 4 eggs 
Boil the butter and water together until the butter is melted. Add 
the flour by pouring it all in at one time. Stir rapidly and cook until 
the mass does not stick to the sides of the pan. Continue the stirring 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 27 

so that it does not burn. Remove from the fire and cool, so as not 
to cook the eggs when they are added. Add one egg at a time and 
mix thoroughly with the mixture before adding another. Drop by 
spoonfuls on a greased cooky sheet, place close to the floor of the 
oven, and bake in a hot oven for about 30 minutes or until the puffs 
are dry and can be lifted from the sheet. Allow them to cool and 
then fill with whipped cream or a custard filling. Before serving, 
sprinkle powdered sugar over the top of each. 

ficLAIRS 

When eclairs are desired, make the paste as for cream puffs. 
Then through a large, round pastry tube, one having a diameter of 
at least -J inch, force this paste in strips 3^ or 4 inches long, putting 
the paste on a cooky sheet or some other large pan. Bake in a hot 
oven in the same way as cream puffs. When cool, fill with a custard 
mixture of any desired flavoring and cover with an icing of the same 
flavor. 

Royal Eclairs 
Royal eclairs are especially delicious and make a very agreeable 
change from the usual variety. To make these, bake eclairs in the 
usual shape and set aside to cool. Cut canned peaches into pieces, 
add sugar to them, and cook down until the sirup becomes thick. 
Fill each eclair with several spoonfuls of this mixture and, if 
desired, serve with whipped cream over the top. 
Cream Filling for Cream Puffs 
i c. flour i tsp. salt 
2 c. milk 2 tsp. butter 
1 egg 1 tsp. vanilla 

f c. sugar 
Moisten the flour with a little cold milk. Heat the remainder of 
the milk and add the moistened flour. Cook in a double boiler for 
10 or 15 minutes. Beat the egg, add the sugar and salt, and pour this 
into the hot mixture, stirring rapidly. Cook until the egg is thick- 
ened, and then add the butter and vanilla. Remove from the fire, 
cool, and fill into the cream puffs. 

Chocolate Filling for Eclairs 
1 sq. chocolate 1 c. milk 

f c. sugar 1 Tb. butter 

1 c. water - 1 tsp. vanilla 

i c. flour 
Cook the chocolate, sugar, and water over the flame until they are 
well blended. Mix the flour and milk and add to the hot mixture. 

W I-C 4-M 



28 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Cook until the flour has thickened. Add the butter and vanilla. Cool 
and fill into the eclairs. Cover the tops with a plain chocolate icing. 

Coffee Filling for £claibs 
i c. ground coffee f c. sugar 

2 c. milk 1 Tb. butter 

i c. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

Steep the coffee in the milk for 15 minutes. Strain and add the 
flour and sugar, which have been thoroughly mixed. Cook until 
the mixture is thickened, stirring constantly to prevent lumps from 
forming. Add the butter and vanilla, cool, and fill into the eclairs. 
Cover the top of the eclairs with icing made by thickening a little 
strong coffee with pulverized sugar. 

Cahamel Filling for Eclairs 
1 c. sugar 1 c. milk 

IJ c. boiling water 1 Tb. butter 

I c. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 

Caramelize J cupful of the sugar, add the water, and cook tmtil 
the caramel has dissolved. Mix the remainder of the sugar with the 
flour and moisten with the milk. Add this to the caramel and cook 
until the flour thickens completely, stirring constantly to prevent the 
formation of lumps. Add the butter and vanilla. Cool and fill into 
the eclairs. Cover the tops with a plain caramel icing. 



DOUGHNUTS AND CRULLERS 

27. Nature of Doughnuts and Crullers. — Some kinds of 
doughnuts and crullers are made of bread dough, and for this reason 
really belong to breakfast breads instead of to cakes. However, 
most of the recipes for these two foods include sugar, shortening, 
milk, eggs, and leavening, making doughnuts and crullers so similar 
to cake in their composition that they are usually regarded as cake 
mixtures. The shortening, which is in smaller amoxmts than is 
required for most cakes, is supplied largely by the method of prepa- 
ration peculiar to these cakes; that is, by their being fried in deep 
fat. Consequently, some of the same conditions apply in their prepa- 
ration as in the making of other foods that are cooked in this way. 
As has already been learned, such foods must either contain a 
sufficient amount of protein material, such as egg, for instance, or 
be coated with enough material of this kind to prevent the absorption 
of fat. In the case of doughnuts, this material is supplied as an 
ingredient. 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



29 



28. Shaping Douglimits and Crullers. — The ingredients 
used in the making of doughnuts are combined in much the same way 
as those used in other cake mixtures. A point to remember is that 
the mixture, like that for cookies, must be stiff enough to handle and 
roll out, but care should be taken not to use too much flour, for then 
the doughnuts are likely to be tough. Divide the dough into amounts 
of a convenient size, place one of these on a well-floured board, and 
roll out with a rolling pin until about i inch thick. Then, with a 
doughnut cutter, as shown in Fig. 21, cut as many doughnuts as 
possible from the rolled dough. If a regular doughnut cutter is not 
in supply, a round cookie cutter may be used and then a thimble or 
some other small round cutter applied to remove the center of the 
pieces thus cut. As here shown, a plate or some other small dish 
containing flour should be kept handy and the cutter dipped into 
this occasionally during 
the cutting to prevent it 
from sticking to the 
dough and marring the 
appearance of the 
doughnuts. Collect the 
centers and scraps that 
remain after the dough- 
nuts have been cut from 
a piece and set these 
aside until all the fresh dough has been used. These may then be 
rolled out again and cut into doughnuts. If desired, however, the 
centers may be fried. 

29. While doughnuts are usually round and have a hole in the 
center, they may, for variety, be made in other shapes. For instance, 
after the dough is rolled out, it is sometimes cut with a sharp knife 
into rectangular pieces about 4 inches long and 2^ inches wide and 
each one of these pieces then cut lengthwise into three strips attached 
at one end. When cut in this way, the strips are braided and then 
pinched together at the loose end. Or, the pieces may be made 
4 inches long and 2 inches wide, cut into two strips attached at one 
end, and the strips then twisted around each other and pinched 
together at the loose end. 

30. Frying Douglinuts and Crullers. — After the dough- 
nuts have been cut in the desired shape, the next step is to fry them. 




Fig. 21 



30 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



§19 




Fig. 22 



The equipment required for this process consists of a pan or a kettle 
into which the fat is put, a long-handled frying basket into which the 

doughnuts are placed, 
and a receptacle contain- 
ing hot water into which 
the doughnuts can be 
dipped after being fried. 
Put into the kettle a 
sufficient amount of fat, 
which may be any veg- 
etable fat or oil, to cover 
the doughnuts well, 
allow it to become hot 
enough to brown an inch 
cube of bread in 40 sec- 
onds, place several 
doughnuts in the bottom 
of the basket, as shown in Fig. 22, and then lower the basket into 
the hot fat, when it will be found that the doughnuts will rise quickly 
to the top of the fat. Allow them to brown on one side and then 
turn them over with a fork and let them brown on the other 
side. Be careful not to let the fat become too hot during the frying, 
or the doughnuts will become darker than is desirable before the 
inside is cooked. If it is found that the fat is getting too hot, turn 
off some of the heat or 
remove the deep-fat ket- 
tle from the excessive 
heat. 

31. As soon as the 
doughnuts have become 
an even brown on both 
sides and have fried 
through thoroughly, lift 
the basket out of the fat 
and rest it on the edge 
of the frying kettle. 
Then, as shown in Fig. 
23, remove the doughnuts one at a time from the basket with a 
fork and dip quickly into the pan of boiling water and remove 




Fig. 23 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



31 



again at once. Dipping the doughnuts into boiHng water removes 
any excessive fat that may remain on the surface. Upon taking them 
from the water, place them, as in Fig. 24, on a piece of paper that 
will absorb as much of the remaining fat as possible. When these 
precautions are taken, the doughnuts will be found to be less greasy 
and not so likely to disagree with the persons who eat them. After 
the surface has become dried, the doughnuts may be improved by 
sprinkling them with pulverized or granulated sugar. 

32. If a large number of doughnuts are made and the hot-water 
method of drying them is adopted, it will be found that considerable 
fat will remain in the water. It will therefore pay to allow the fat 
to become cool and re- 
move it from the surface 
of the water. Fat in 
which doughnuts and 
crullers are fried, after 
being poured from the 
dregs that collect in the 
bottom and reheated, 
may be clarified by add- 
ing several slices of raw 
potato to it and allowing 
these to become brown in 
it. This treatment will 
remove any foreign taste 
that the fat may have 
and make it possible to Fig. 24 

use the fat again for frying purposes. Fat in which croquettes have 
been fried may be treated in the same way and used the second time. 

33. Recipes for Douglimits. — A variety of doughnuts that 
are made light by means of chemical leavening can be prepared, as 
the following recipes indicate. Sometimes yeast doughnuts are pre- 
ferred, so a recipe for doughnuts of this kind is also given. If the 
directions previously given are carefully applied in carrying out any 
of these recipes, excellent results may be expected. Some persons 
are prejudiced against the use of doughnuts, claiming that they are 
indigestible. While this may be true of doughnuts improperly made, 
those made of good materials and by correct methods are always a 
favorite and justly so. 




32 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Doughnuts 

(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Doughnuts) 

3 Tb. butter 6 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar ' 1 tsp. salt 

3 eggs i tsp. nutmeg 

1 c. milk I tsp. cinnamon 

44 c. flour 
Cream the butter, add the sugar and then the eggs, and beat 
thoroughly. Pour in the milk and sift the dry ingredients into this 
mixture. Divide into amounts that can be handled conveniently, 
roll out, cut, and fry in deep fat. 

Potato-and-Barley Doughnuts 

(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Doughnuts) 

2 egg's 14 c. wheat flour 

f c. sugar i tsp. salt 

i c. mashed potatoes i tsp. mace 

1 Tb. fat i tsp. soda 

i c. sour milk 2 tsp. baking powder 

I c. barley flour 
Beat the eggs and add the sugar and mashed potatoes. If solid 
shortening is used, melt it and add to the other ingredients. Pour in 
the sour milk, mix and sift the barley and wheat flour, salt, mace, 
soda, and baking powder, and add these to the mixture. Turn the 
dough out on a board in a quantity that can be handled at one 
time and knead for a little before rolling it for cutting. Cut and fry 
in deep fat. 

Sour-Milk Doughnuts 

(Sufficient for 3 Dozen Doughnuts) 

4 c. flour 1 c. sugar 

14 tsp. salt 1 Tb. butter 

i tsp. soda 1 egg 

4 tsp. baking powder I5 c. sour milk 

i tsp. grated nutmeg 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and chop in the butter. Beat the 
egg, add the milk, and stir these into the dry ingredients. After 
mixing thoroughly, roll about ^ inch thick on a board, cut in the 
desired shape, and fry in deep fat. 

Drop Doughnuts 

(Sufficient for 2 Dozen Doughnuts) 

2 c. flour I c. sugar 

3 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

i tsp. salt i c. milk 

i tsp. nutmeg 1 Tb. melted fat 

I tsp. cinnamon 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 33 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the egg, add the milk to 
it, and pour the liquid into the dry ingredients. Add the melted fat. 
Drop by teaspoonfuls into hot fat and fry the same as for doughnuts. 

Yeast Doughnuts 

(SuiBcienI for 3 Dozen Doughnuts) 

1 c. milk -J c. sugar 

1 yeast cake J c. melted butter 
5 c. flour J tsp. salt 

2 eggs 4 tsp. mace 

Scald the milk and cool to lukewarm. Dissolve the yeast cake and 
add it to the milk and a sufificient amount of the flour to make a 
sponge. Allow this to rise until double in bulk. Then add the eggs, 
sugar, melted butter, salt, and mace. Beat thoroughly and add 
enough flour to make a dough. Knead this until it is smooth and 
elastic and let it rise until double in bulk. Roll out on a board into 
a sheet about | inch thick. Cut into long strips about f inch wide, 
twist, stretch, and shape like a figure 8. Let these stand on the 
board or in a pan until they are light and then fry in deep fat. 



PUDDINGS AND PUDDING SAUCES 



NATURE OF PUDDINGS 

34. Many kinds of puddings are used for desserts. Some 
of them closely resemble cake mixtures, while others are similar to 
custards, but are thickened with a cooked or a raw starchy material. 
Formerly, puddings were always boiled in a bag, but now desserts 
of this kind are prepared by boiling, steaming, or baking. To 
improve the flavor of puddings, sauces of a contrasting flavor are 
usually served with them. 

35. Puddings are ofteif considered to be rather indigestible 
foods and in many cases this is true. For this reason, it is not wise 
to include them to any great extent in the diet of children. Because 
of the ingredients used in them, they are a heavy food and are 
usually high in food value. Consequently, some thought should be 
given to their selection so that they may be suitable for the rest of 
the meal in which they are served. It seems to be the custom to 
serve a rich dessert with a heavy meal, but, as is well known, it is 



34 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

less proper with such a meal than with a light meal. A little atten- 
tion given to this matter will enable the housewife to prepare menus 
that will provide the family with a properly balanced meal. 

36. The time of day and the season of the year for the serving 
of puddings are also matters that should receive consideration. It 
is much better to serve desserts of this kind with a noon meal than 
with an evening meal. Then, too, warm puddings with sauce will be 
found much more appetizing in the cool season of the year than in 
warm weather. On the other hand, cool desserts or fruits served as 
desserts are very much more acceptable in warm weather than during 
the cold seasons. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

37. The sauces served with puddings deserve just as much 
attention as to selection and preparation as the puddings themselves. 
For instance, a sour sauce that is not rich, such as lemon sauce, 
should be served with a rich, sweet pudding, while a rich, hard sauce 
or perhaps a chocolate sauce is the proper kind to serve with a bland, 
flavorless pudding. 

So that the housewife may be perfectly familiar with a variety of 
sauces And thus know the nature of the sauces mentioned in connec 
tion with the puddings themselves, a number of recipes for pudding 
sauces are given. Some of these are intended to be served hot and 
others cold, while a few may be served either hot or cold, as pre- 
ferred. Selection may be made from these for any pudding thaf is 
accompanied by a sauce when served. Care should be taken to have 
the sauce appropriate for the pudding and to follow explicitly the 
directions given for making it. 

Lemon Sauce No. 1 

i c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

1 Tb. corn starch 2 Tb. butter 

Few grains of salt 2 Tb. lemon juice 

Mix the sugar, corn starch, and salt, and add the water gradually, 
stirring constantly. Boil 5 minutes, remove from the fire, add the 
butter and lemon juice, and serve. 

Lemon Sauce No. 2 

i c, butter i c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar 3 Tb. lemon juice 

3 egg yolks Few gratings of lemon rind 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS . 35 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and stir in the yolks of 
the eggs slightly beaten. Then add the water and cook over boiling 
water until the mixture thickens. Add the lemon juice and rind and 
serve at once. 

Vanilla Sauce 
i c. butter -J c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar Few gratings of nutmeg 

3 egg" yolks 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and stir in the egg 
yolks beaten slightly. Add the water and cook over boiling water 
until the mixture thickens. Add the nutmeg and vanilla and serve 
at once. 

Hard Sauce 
i c. butter i tsp. lemon extract 

1 c. powdered sugar f tsp. vanilla 
Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, and then add the 
flavoring. Beat until the sauce is light and creamy. 

Sterling Sauce 
I c. butter 4 Tb. cream or milk 

1 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Add the milk and 
flavoring, drop by drop, to prevent separation. Beat until fluffy and 
smooth. Chill and serve. 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 c. milk 2 Tb. flour 

i sq. chocolate 1 Tb. butter 

■J c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Heat the milk and in it melt the chocolate. Mix the sugar and 

flour and stir into the mixture rapidly to prevent the formation of 

lumps. Cook until the sauce thickens, add the butter, and cook for 

a few minutes longer. Add the vanilla and serve either hot or cold, 

as desired. 

Fruit Sauce 

1 c. fruit juice li Tb. corn starch 

^ c. sugar 2 Tb. lemon juice 

Heat the fruit juice, which may be any left-over fruit juice. Mix 

the sugar and corn starch, add to the hot fruit juice, and cook until 

the corn starch thickens, stirring constantly to prevent the formation 

of lumps. Add the lemon juice. Remove from the heat and, if the 

sauce is desired to be more acid, add lemon juice to suit the taste. 

Apricot Sauce 
f c. apricot pulp Pulverized sugar 

f c. whipping cream 



36 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Prepare apricot pulp by forcing cooked apricots through a sieve. 
Whip the cream and fold the apricot pulp into it. Add pulverized 
sugar to suit the taste. 

Pineapple Sauce 

■J c. sugar 1 c. grated pineapple 

1 J c. water 1 Tb. corn starch 

Add the sugar to the water and bring to the boiling point. Add 
the pineapple and cook until it is tender. If canned pineapple is 
used, omit one-half cupful of the water. Moisten the corn starch 
with a little water and add it. Cook until it thickens, stirring to pre- 
vent lumps. 

Orange Sauce 

I c. orange juice Powdered sugar 

1 Tb. lemon juice 

Into the fruit juices, beat the powdered sugar until the sauce is 
as sweet as desired. 

Maraschino Sauce 

J c. maraschino juice 6 cherries, chopped 

1 Tb. lemon juice Powdered sugar 

Mix the fruit juices and chopped cherries, add the sugar, beat 
well, and serve. 

Custard Sauce 

2 c. milk i tsp. vanilla 

1 Tb. corn starch ^ tsp. lemon extract 

i c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the com starch and sugar 
and add to the milk, stirring so as to prevent the formation of lumps. 
Continue stirring until the corn starch has thickened and then cook 
for about 15 minutes longer. Beat the egg, add it to the mixture, and 
cook for a few minutes longer. Add the vanilla, lemon, and salt. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Coconut Sauce 

2 c. milk Pinch of salt 

i c. shredded coconut 1 egg white 

i c. sugar ^ tsp. vanilla 

1 J Tb. corn starch 

Heat the milk in a double boiler with the coconut. Mix the sugar 
and corn starch and add to the hot milk and coconut. Stir until the 
corn starch has thickened and cook for 15 minutes. Add the salt to 
the egg white and beat until it is stiff. Pour the hot mixture over 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



37 



the egg white and continue beating until thoroughly blended, 
the vanilla and serve either hot or cold. 



Add 



Jelly Sauce 

2 tsp. corn starch or arrowroot ^ c. jelly or jam 
1 c. boiling water Juice of -J lemon 

Cook the corn starch or arrowroot diluted with cold water, in the 
boiling water for 5 minutes. Add the jelly or jam, beaten smooth, 
and let simmer for 3 or 4 minutes. Add sugar, if needed, and the 
lemon juice. Strain and serve. 



PUDBINGS 



PRKPARATIOJf OF PUDDINGS 

38. As has already been learned, puddings are cooked by being 
boiled, steamed, or baked. No different utensils from those used in 
the making of custards and cakes need be provided for the making 
of puddings except, perhaps, a steamer. A utensil of this kind, 
which is required for 
steamed puddings, con- 
sists of a large pan, 
which sets directly over 
the flame and into which 
the water is poured; a 
second pan, which fits 
closely into the first one 
and into which the pud- 
ding is put ; and a spout, 
into which the water 
may be poured. The 
steamer must be very closely covered in order that all the steam, 
which does the cooking, may be retained. An apparatus that will 
answer the purpose of a steamer may be improvised, however, 
if there are in the supply of household utensils a pan, a colan- 
der, and a cover that will fit tight enough to retain the steam; or, 
instead of putting the pudding directly in the second pan of the 
steamer, it may be put into individual molds or a pan that will hold 
a sufiicient quantity to serve just the desired number of persons and 
these then set in the second pan to cook. 




Fig. 2S 



38 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

39- Steamed puddings ready to serve are shown in Figs. 25 
and 26. The pudding in Fig. 25 shows how a pudding that has been 
steamed in one large mold will appear. The mold used may be just 
large enough for the number of persons to be served or it may be 
larger and what remains used for another meal. Fig. 26 shows a 
pudding that has been. steamed in individual molds. Whichever one 
of these two methods of preparing steamed puddings is preferred 
may be adopted. 

When puddings are cooked by steaming, it should be remembered 
that the steaming process must be continuous. Therefore, if water 
must be added during the cooking, boiling water should be used so 




Fig. 26 

as not to lower the temperature and stop the formation of steam. 
After being steamed sufficiently, puddings of this kind are often 
placed in the oven for a short time in order to dry the surface. 

40. The baking of puddings is so similar to the baking of cakes 
and custards that the same directions apply. A few points, however, 
should be kept well in mind if good puddings would be the result. 
The utensil in which a pudding that is to be baked is put may be of 
any desired shape, but it should always be greased. This also holds 
true in the case of puddings that are to be steamed. Puddings that 
contain an egg-and-milk mixture, as, for instance, bread pudding, 
must necessarily, as with custards, be baked at a temperature low 
enough to prevent them, from curding. 



i 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 39 



RECIPES FOR PUDDINGS 

41. In the preparation of many puddings here considered, left- 
over materials, such as bread, rolls, stale cake, cookies, etc., may be 
utilized to advantage. Consequently, when the housewife is making 
desserts, she should endeavor to make good use of all such things 
in case they cannot be used by themselves. 

42. Indian Pudding. — As corn meal is the chief ingredient 
in the pudding given in the accompanying recipe, it is called Indian 
pudding, corn meal being a product of Indian corn. For persons 
who like food containing corn meal, this pudding will prove satis- 
factory. It has the advantage over other puddings in that it is 
inexpensive. 

Indian Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

i c. corn meal i tsp. salt 

5 c. milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i c.molasses 
Mix the corn meal with some of the milk, scald the remainder in a 
double boiler, and add the moistened corn meal to it. Pour in the 
molasses, salt, and cinnamon, cook for 15 or 20 minutes in a double 
boiler, and then pour into a buttered baking dish. Bake in a very 
slow oven for about 2 hours. Serve with cream or custard sauce. 

43. Brown Betty. — ^A baked pudding that always meets with 
favor among both old and young is Brown Betty. The flavor 
imparted by the apples and other ingredients to the bread crumbs 
is delightful, especially when the pudding is prepared according to 
the accompanying directions. 

Brown Betty 

(Sufficient to Serve EightJ 

1 qt. stale bread crumbs 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 qt. sliced apples ^ c. butter 

i c. brown sugar i to 1 c. water 

i c. sugar Juice and rind of | lemon 

itsp. nutmeg 
Butter a baking dish. Make coarse crumbs of the stale bread and 
place a layer on the bottom of the baking dish. Place on top of this 
a layer of half the sliced apples and sprinkle with one-half of the 
sugar, to which have been added the nutmeg and cinnamon. Dot 
with butter, sprinkle with another layer of crumbs, add the remain- 



40 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

ing apples, sugar, and spices, and dot again with butter. Cover with 
the remaining crumbs and dot this with the remaining butter. Pour 
over this the water, lemon juice, and the grated lemon rind. Bake 
in a moderate oven for about 45 minutes, covering the dish for the 
first half of the time and removing the cover for the latter part of 
the baking. Serve with cream, lemon sauce, or hard sauce. The 
quantity of water necessary depends on the dryness of the crumbs 
and the juiciness of the apples. 

44. Bread Pudding. — For utilizing bits of bread that might 
otherwise be wasted, there is no better plan than to make a bread 
pudding. This dessert may be used with any dinner or luncheon, as 
jams, jellies, and practically all kinds of sauce may be served with it 
to impart a suitable flavor. 

Bkead Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 qt. milk J c. sugar 

2 c. stale bread crumbs 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 eggs 

Heat the milk and pour it over the bread crumbs. Allow them to 
soak until they are soft. Beat the eggs, add the sugar and vanilla 
to them, and stir this into the mixture of crumbs and milk. Mix 
thoroughly, pour into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate 
oven for about 45 minutes. If desired, jelly or jam may be served 
with the bread pudding or any desirable sauce, such as lemon, vanilla, 
or custard, may be used and the pudding may be served either hot 
or cold. 

45. Maize Pudding. — ^A pudding that has both com starch 
and corn meal as its basis provides variety. This pudding, called 
maize pudding, is prepared in a double boiler and then turned into 
a mold to cool. Either raisins or dates may be added to it to increase 
its palatability. 

Maize Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

3i c. milk i c. sugar 

2 Tb. corn starch i tsp. cinnamon 

i c. white corn meal f c. raisins or dates 

i tsp. salt 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, mix the com starch, corn meal, 
salt, sugar, and cinnamon, and add this to the hot milk, stirring rapidly 
to prevent the formation of lumps. Continue to stir and cook directly 
ouer the fire until the mixture thickens. Then return to the double 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 41 

boiler and cook for about 2 hours. Fifteen minutes before removing 
from the fire, add the raisins or chopped dates, turn into a mold, and 
serve either hot or cold with custard sauce. 

46. Pierrot Pudding. — ^A steamed pudding made of simple 
ingredients is often desired for serving with an elaborate meal. In 
such a case, Pierrot pudding will answer very well. 

Pierrot Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. butter 5 tsp. baking powder 

1 c. sugar 2 egg whites 

f c. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

2| c. flour 
Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Then add the milk 
alternately with the flour, to which has been added the baking powder. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until they are stiff and fold them into 
the mixture. Add the vanilla. Butter baking-powder cans or other 
molds, fill them half full with the mixture, adjust the covers, which 
should also be buttered, and place in a kettle of boiling water. Raise 
them from the bottom of the kettle by means of a rack, have the 
water come half way up around the molds, and cover closely. If 
small molds are used, steam them only 1 hour. If a large mold is 
used, steam from 1^ to 2 hours, never allowing the water to get 
below the boiling point. Remove from the molds and serve with 
hot chocolate sauce. 

47. Steamed Ginger Pudding. — A steamed pudding in 

which the flavor of ginger predominates is given in the accompanying 

recipe. This kind of pudding is very popular among persons who 

like such flavor. 

Steamed Ginger Pudding 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

■^ c. shortening 4 tsp. baking powder 

i c. sugar J tsp. salt 

2 eggs 1 tsp. ginger 

2^ c. flour 1 c. milk 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar and the beaten eggs. 
Sift the dry ingredients with the flour and add alternately with the 
milk. Turn into a buttered mold and steam for about 2 hours. 
Remove from the mold and serve with sweetened whipped cream 
or any desired sauce. 

48. Raisin Puff. — Raisins always increase the food value of a 
meal, and they are especially good when combined with the in^re- 



42 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 1» 

dients required for the dessert known as raisin puff. This steamed 
pudding is rather rich and should not, of course, be served with a 
meal in which the other foods are rich. 

Raisin Puff 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

i c. shortening 1 tsp. cinnamon 

i c. sugar i tsp. salt 

1 egg 1 c. milk 

2J c. flour 1 c. raisins 
4 tsp. baking powder 

Cream the shortening and add the sugar gradually and the beaten 
egg. Sift the dry ingredients with the flour and add alternately with 
the milk. Chop the raisins and fold them into the mixture. Turn 
into a buttered mold, cover, and steam for IJ or 2 hours. Remove 
from the mold and serve hot with whipped cream or any desired 
sauce. 

49. Suet-Fruit Pudding. — Steamed puddings in which suet 
and fruit form two of the ingredients are excellent cold-weather 
desserts. Such puddings are usually made around the holidays, and 
under proper conditions will keep for a long time. The accompany- 
ing recipe gives directions for making an excellent pudding of this 
kind. 

Suet-Fruit Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

f c. suet i c. molasses 

2J c. stale bread crumbs -J tsp. salt 

2 eg'g yolks 1 tsp. ciimamon 

i c. milk ^ tsp. grated nutmeg 

1 c. brown sugar J tsp. cloves 

Grated rind of 1 lemon -J tsp. soda 

1 Tb. lemon juice i c. flour 

1^ c. raisins 2 egg whites 

Force the suet through a food chopper or chop very fine. Then 
work it with the hands until it is creamy and to it add the bread 
crumbs. Beat the egg yolks until they are light and add them to the 
suet and bread crumbs. Add the milk. Add the sugar, grated lemon 
rind, lemon juice, the raisins, cut into pieces, the molasses, and milk. 
Sift together the salt, spices, soda, and flour, and sift these into the 
mixture. Mix thoroughly, fold in the whites of the eggs beaten until 
they are stiff, turn into a buttered mold, adjust the cover, and steam 
for about 3 hours. Serve with any desired sauce. 



§ 19 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 43 

50. Christmas Pudding. — A pudding much used during the 
hoHday season is Christmas pudding. The ingredients for this 
dessert are similar to those for suet-fruit pudding. In fact, both 
may be used for the same purpose. Christmas pudding is especially 
good when served with hard sauce, although other sauce may be 
used with it. 

Christmas Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Twelve) 

2^ c. staie bread crumbs i c. chopped citron 

i c. milk I c. chopped nuts 

1 c. beef suet 1 c. flour 

i c. sugar i tsp. soda 

i c. molasses 1 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. chopped raisins i c. fruit juice 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Work the suet with the hands 
until it is creamy, and to it add the sugar, molasses, and well-beaten 
eggs. Mix with the milk and bread crumbs, and add the fruit and 
nuts. Mix the dry ingredients and sift them into the mixture. Add 
the fruit juice, turn into a buttered mold, and steam for 3 hours. 
Serve hot with hard sauce or any other desired sauce. 

51. Pocono Pudding. — Directions for still another steamed 
pudding in which suet is used are given in the accompanying recipe 
for Pocono pudding. This dessert does not require so many ingre- 
dients as suet-fruit or Christmas pudding, and in many cases will 
answer the same purpose. 

Pocono Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

f c. suet i c. milk 

2 c. apples 1 tsp. salt 

2 c. stale bread crumbs Rind and juice of 1 lemon 

3 eggs i c. raisins 
f c. brown sugar 

Put the suet, apples, peeled and cored, and the bread crumbs 
through the food chopper. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add these 
with the sugar, milk, salt, and grated rind and juice of the lemon. 
Chop the raisins and add to the mixture. Beat the egg whites and 
fold these into the mixture. Pour the mixture into buttered molds 
and steam for 3 to 4 hours. Serve with any desired sauce. 

52. Steamed Fig Pudding. — A steamed pudding made 
according to the recipe here given never fails to please. As the name, 

WI-C4-1S 



U CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS §19 

steamed fig pudding, indicates, it is supposed to have chopped figs 

added to it, although raisins will answer if figs cannot be obtained. 

Steamed Fig Pxtoding 

(Sufficient to Serve Twelve) 

•J c. )3utter i tsp. cinnamon 

I c. sugar i tsp. nutmeg 

1 c. molasses i tsp. soda 

1 c. milk 3 tsp. baking powder 

2| c. flour I c. chopped figs or raisins 

Cream the butter and add the sugar, molasses, and milk. Mix 
and sift the dry ingredients and stir these into the mixture. Fold 
in the chopped figs or raisins and steam in buttered molds for 2 to 
3 hours, depending on the size of the molds. Serve hot with any 
desired sauce. 

53. Fresh-Fruit Pudding. — During berry or cherry season 
fresh-fruit pudding is an excellent one to make. This pudding is 
prepared in much the same way as a cake mixture, is combined with 
the fruit selected, and is then either steamed or baked. 

Fresh-Fruit Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

■J c. butter 3 tsp. baking' powder 

i c. sugar 1:^ c. milk 

2 c. flour 2 egg whites 

i tsp. salt 1 c. berries or stoned cherries 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Sift together the dry ingre- 
dients and add these alternately with the milk. Beat the egg whites 
and fold these in. Place a layer of dough in the bottom of a buttered 
baking dish, put a layer of fruit on top of this, add dough next and 
then fruit, and have a final layer of dough on top. Cover tight and 
steam for 1^ or 2 hours or bake without the cover in a moderate oven 
for about 45 minutes. Serve with a fruit or a hard sauce. 

54. Coconut Puff. — ^A light pudding to which shredded coco- 
nut is added to give flavor is a satisfactory dessert for a heavy meal. 
As it is baked in muffin pans, it may be served in a dainty manner. 

Coconut Puff 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

i c. butter i tsp. soda 

1 c. sugar 2 tsp. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 c. sour milk 

2 c. flour i c. shredded cotonut 

Cream the butter and add the sugar. Beat the yolks of the egg;s 
and add them. Sift the dry ingredients with the flour and adtJ 



§19 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 



45 



alternately with the milk. Fold in the coconut. Beat the egg whites 
until stiff and fold them in. Bake in buttered muffin pans in a quick 
oven for 20 minutes. Serve with coconut or any desired sauce. 

55. Cottage Pudding, — ^When a simple baked pudding is 
desired, the housewife almost instinctively turns to cottage pudding. 
This pudding has been a favorite in the household for years and may 
be eaten by young or old. It is not very rich, and so should be served 
with an appetizing sauce. 

Cottage Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

J c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

I c. sugar i c. milk 

1 egg, well beaten 1 tsp. vanilla 

1^ c. flour 
Cream the butter, add the sugar, and beat the egg and add it. Sift 
the flour and baking powder together and add alternately with the 
milk. Add the vanilla. Bake in a loaf-cake pan and serve hot with 
lemon, fruit, or chocolate sauce. 




Fig. 27 

56. Chocolate Bread Pudding. — To the majority of persons 
the flavor of chocolate is always pleasing. In chocolate bread pud- 
ding, this flavor is well blended with the ingredients. This pudding, 
when baked, may be cut into slices, as shown in Fig. 27, and then 
daintily served with either hard or custard sauce. 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

2 c. stale bread crumbs 2 eggs 

4 c. milk i tsp. salt 

1 sq. unsweetened chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 
^ c. sugar 



46 CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS § 19 

Soak the bread crumbs in 3 cupfuls of the milk. Melt the choco- 
late in a saucepan and add the sugar and the remaining cup of milk. 
Cook until the mixture is smooth and add this to the bread and 
milk. Beat the eggs and add them. Add the salt and vanilla. Pour 
into a buttered baking dish and bake for about 45 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Cut into slices and serve with hard or custard sauce. 

57. Cliocolate Pudding. — Baked chocolate pudding provides 
another way in which to serve a dessert in which chocolate flavor 
predominates. This pudding, because of its food value and the 
pleasing way in which it may be served, is sure to answer for any 
meal in which a pudding dessert is desired. 

Chocolate Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

i c. butter 3 tsp. baking powder 

f c. sugar i tsp. soda 

2 eggs l| sq. unsweetened chocolate 

i c. milk 1^ tsp. vanilla 
l| c. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, and beat the yolks of the eggs 
and add them. Add the milk alternately with the flour, which has 
been mixed and sifted with the baking powder and soda. Melt the 
chocolate in a saucepan and add. Beat the whites of the eggs until 
stiff and fold them into the mixture. Flavor with the vanilla. Bake 
in a pan that will leave a space in the center. It will require about 
45 minutes to 1 hour for the baking. Remove from the pan, fill the 
center with whipped cream, and serve with chocolate sauce. 

58. Boston Cream Pie. — Boston cream pie is a dessert that 
can be made up with some of the recipes already given. It is a 
favorite dessert with many people and is very high in food value. 

To make Boston cream pie, first bake two layers, each about 1 inch 
thick, in round pans, using the plain-cake or cottage-pudding recipe. 
Then, between these layers, put a filling about i inch thick. This 
filling should preferably be the one used for cream puffs, although 
any similar filling stiff enough to stand up well may be used instead. 
Cover the top layer with i to 1 inch of slightly sweetened and flav- 
ored whipped cream. The cake should not be put together until both 
the layers and the filling have cooled. 



CAKES, COOKIES, AND PUDDINGS 

(.PART 2) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) In what general way does the thickness of the dough mixture for large 
cakes differ from that for small cakes other than cup cakes? 

(2) (a) In baking small cakes, how does the oven temperature required 
compare with that required for large cakes? (6) How does the length of time 
required for baking large and small cakes differ? 

(3) If the time for baking small cakes is divided into halves, what should 
occur in the second half ? 

(4) Where should the pans for the baking of small cakes be placed in the 
oven? 

(5) Describe an original way of decorating cup cakes. 

(6) Describe two classes of cookies. 

(7) What precaution must be taken with regard to the flour used in the 
mixing of cakes? 

(8) How thick should the dough be rolled for: (o) cookies? (&) ginger 
snaps ? 

(9) Describe the baking of cookies. 

(10) Describe the frying of doughnuts and crullers. 

(11) Describe a method of removing the excess fat from the surface of 
doughnuts after they are fried. 

(12) By what methods may puddings be cooked? 

(13) With what kind of meal and during what kind of weather should 
heavy, rich pudding be served? 

(14) Of what value are pudding sauces? 

(15) (o) Describe the method of steaming pudding. (6) How may the 
surface of steamed puddings be made dry? 

§19 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



REQUIREMENTS FOR PASTRY AND PIE MAKING 



NATURE OF PASTRIES AND PIES 

1. Pastry is a shortened dough that is made of flour, water, 
salt, and fat and used in the preparation of desserts. Chief among 
these deserts are pies. These are made by baking foods between 
two crusts of pastry or with a single crust, which may be an upper 
or a lower one. Originally pies were not intended for desserts. 
Rather, they were used as the main dish of the meal, as they con- 
tained a filling of meat or fish and vegetables. Such pies are still 
made, but they are not usually the ones intended when pastry for 
pies is mentioned. It should therefore be understood that the pastry 
considered in this Section is that which is used with sweet fillings 
and employed particularly in the making of pies and similar foods 
that are used for desserts. 

Some cooks, especially the French ones, regard as pastry such 
foods as certain small cakes, the paste used for cream puffs and 
eclairs, and the sweetened breads made with yeast, such as brioche. 
In reality, such desserts resemble cakes in use more than they do 
pastry, and for this reason are discussed in connection with them. 

2. Pastry desserts may be made in various fancy shapes for 
individual servings or in pies that will serve five or six persons. 
Pies having one crust usually contain a filling that consists of a 
custard mixture, a mixture thickened with corn starch or flour, or 
occasionally a fruit mixture. Some pies also have a top crust cover- 
ing the filling, and when this is the case a fruit filling, either fresh 
or cooked, is the kind that is generally used. 

3. Because-of the nature of the materials used in the preparation 
of pastry desserts, the finished product is necessarily high in food 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIQHTS RESERVED 

§20 



2 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

value. For instance, starchy material is provided by the flour, fat 
by the shortening, and sugar in comparatively large amounts by the 
filling, whether it be fruit of some kind or a material resembling 
custard. This fact, rather than the taste or the appetite, should aid 
in determining whether or not pastry desserts should be included in 
a meal. While the popularity of such desserts causes them to be 
used somewhat indiscriminately, their use should always be governed 
by the nature of the rest of the meal. Thus, if the other dishes 
served provide enough food value, then a dessert lighter than pie 
should be chosen ; but if the rest of the meal is not sufficiently high 
in this respect, a wholesome pastry dessert will generally prove to 
be a wise selection. 

4. It is true, of course, that every person must determine for 
himself whether or not pastry desserts are wholesome enough to be 
eaten by him. Indigestion is almost sure to result from heavy, soggy, 
imperfectly baked pastry, because the quantities of fat it contains 
may be slow to digest and much of the starchy material may be 
imperfectly cooked. Consequently, it is often not the pie itself but 
the way in which it is made that is responsible for the bad reputa- 
tion that this very attractive dessert has acquired. If the correct 
method of making pastry and pies is followed and the ingredients 
are handled properly in the making, the digestibility of the finished 
product need give the housewife very little concern. As a rule, a 
little experience is needed in order that good results in the making of 
pastry dishes may be attained, but one who becomes efficient in the 
other phases of cookery should have no difficulty with foods of 
this kind. 

5. Detailed instructions regarding the making of pastry desserts 
are given throughout this Section, but if the greatest degree of 
success is to be attained, it will be well from the very beginning to 
understand a few general rules that apply to this work. In the first 
place, the ingredients must be of the right sort and as cold as possi- 
ble ; then they must be handled and combined with dexteritj' ; and. 
finally, a hot oven must be provided in order that these foods may be 
properly baked. 



,20 PASTRIES AND PIES 



INGREDIENTS USED FOR PASTRY 

6. The ingredients used in pastry making are neither numerous 
nor compHcated, usually including only flour, salt, shortening, and 
liquid. If these are correctly combined, they will be all that is 
required to make a pastry that is light, flaky, and crisp. Occasion- 
ally a recipe requiring baking powder will be found and sometimes 
eggs are called for in mixtures of this kind, but neither of these 
ingredients is required for successful pastry making. Baking powder 
may be an advantage when it is used by one who is not experienced 
in the handling of pastry mixtures, for it helps to make pastry 
lighter. However, only a small quantity of this ingredient should be 
used, as a very little will bring about the desired result. 

7. riour for Pastry. — Pastry flour is the most desirable for 
pastry making. It is made from winter wheat, which, as has already 
been explained, contains less gluten and therefore lacks the gummy 
consistency of bread flour. For pufif paste, which is prepared so as 
to hold air between thin layers of pastry, bread flour is often used 
because it retains air better. Flours made of other cereals may also 
be used. Pastry made of such flours is more difficult to handle, but 
good results may be obtained if patience and care are exercised. 
When corn flour, rice flour, and barley flour. are used as part of the 
flour for pastry, it will be found that less shortening is needed than 
when wheat flour alone is used. The dark flours, such as barley, 
produce a pastry that is dark in color, but this is no particular dis- 
advantage so long as the quality is not impaired. 

No matter what kind of flour is used for the pastry, it should be 
as dry as possible. At times, putting the flour in a warm oven and 
allowing it to dry will prove to be advantageous. However, flour 
so treated should be cooled before it is used, since the cooler the 
ingredients are the better will be the pastry. 

Cereal products of different kinds, such as corn meal, for instance, 
may be moistened, spread into pans in thin layers, and then baked. 
The shells thus produced may be filled with various kinds of filling 
and used very successfully. Such shells, however, can scarcely be 
considered as real pastry. 

8. Shortening for Pastry. — A solid fat, that is, one that will 
remain solid at ordinary room temperature, is the best shortening 



4 PASTRIES AND PIES §20 

for pastry making. Oils of various kinds may be used, but in most 
cases the results are not so successful. If pastry is to have the 
desired flakiness, the shortening must not be broken into such minute 
particles and the flour must not be saturated with fat, as is more 
likely to be the case if oil is used in place of solid fat. In addition 
to being solid, the fat should be just as cold as possible. 

Butter is the fat that is used for puff paste, but for other varieties 
of pastry almost any desirable fat may be Utilized. Lard has always 
been a particular favorite for pastry making; still, for ordinary 
pastry making, there are various combinations of fat of both animal 
and vegetable origin which serve the purpose. 

Certain fats left over from various cooking processes in the home 
can be utilized to advantage in the making of pastry. Chicken fat 
is a very satisfactory one. A mixture of lard and tried-out beef suet 
also makes an ideal fat for pastry, the hard flakiness of the suet being 
particularly desirable. In fact, almost any fat without a disagree- 
able odor or flavor may be used as all or part of the fat required. 
As has already been learned, fats may be clarified and freed of their 
odor by first heating them and then allowing a few slices of raw 
potato to become hot in them. 

9. Liquid for Pastry. — Water is the only liquid used in pastry 
making. Water in which small pieces of ice are allowed to melt is 
especially desirable for this purpose, but if ice cannot be obtained, 
the water used should be as cold as possible. 

10. Proportion of Ingredients. — The proportion of ingre- 
dients for the making of pastry varies with the kinds of flour used 
and the kinds of pastry desired. Some varieties can be made with 
a comparatively small amount' of fat, while others require a large 
amount. The use to which the paste is to be put will determine the 
proportion of fat to* be used. It varies from the minimum amount 
of one-sixth as much fat as flour, by measure, or one-third, by 
weight, which is the proportion for economy paste, to one-half, by 
measure, or an equal amount by weight, which is the proportion used 
in the making of puff paste. For the ordinary preparation of pies, 
an amount midway between the two extremes is usually sufficient, 
while oftentimes less may be used to advantage. It should be 
remembered that fat is the most expensive ingredient in pastry 
making and should be used with discretion. 



§20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



5 



11. The amount of liquid in proportion to the amount of flour 
is about one-fourth, by measure, for, as is explained in Hot Breads, 
pie crust is an example of a stiff dough, and such dough requires 
four times as much flour as liquid. However, liquid should be added 
to the other ingredients until the correct consistency is obtained, 
regardless of the quantity used. The consistency is not right until 
the flour and the fat cling together in such a way that the mixture 
may be rolled out to form the crust for a pie. The less liquid used 
to accomplish this condition, the flakier will be the crust when it is 
baked. More skill is required in the handling of pastry when the 
smallest amount of water that can possibly be used is added, but the 
results achieved usually justify the care that is taken. 



UTENSILS FOR PASTRY MAKING 

12. The utensils needed for pastry making are few in number and 
simple in use. They consist of a mixing bowl, two case knives, a 
spatula, a rolling pin, a flour sieve, two measuring cups, two measur- 




FlG. 1 

ing spoons, and pie tins. Fig. 1 shows the way in which these neces- 
sary utensils as well as the required ingredients for pastry should be 
placed so as to be handy for the person who is to use them. It will 
be well to observe the placing of these, for much depends on their 
convenient arrangement. The kind of utensils to use requires con- 
sideration, also. 

13. A bowl of any description may be used for the mixing, the 
usual cake-making bowl being very satisfactory. As the illustration 
shows, this utensil should have a round bottom, as the ingredients 



6 PASTRIES AND PIES §20 

may be kept together better in such a bowl than in a pan of another 
kind. The two case knives are needed for mixing the ingredients 
in the bowl, and the spatula is used in handling the paste. The 
rolling pin, which is used for rolling out the dough to the required 
thickness, may be made of any material, but it should be one that 
will revolve while the handles remain stationary. With such a 
utensil it is possible to procure a lighter touch than with one that 
has fixed handles. The flour sieve is an absolute necessity, because 
the flour for pastry must be made as light as possible by sifting. 
One of the measuring cups is needed for the flour, or dry ingredient, 
and the other for the water, or wet ingredient. The two measuring 
spoons, which should be of different sizes, are used for measuring 
the salt and the shortening. 

The kind of pans to use for pies depends largely on the opinion 
of the person making the pies. Ordinary tin pans will answer the 
purpose, but aluminum, baking-glass, or earthenware pans will prove 
to be more satisfactory because they retain the heat longer than do 
pans made of other materials. If desired, enamelware pans may be 
used, but this material chips easily and consequently is not very 
satisfactory. 

The enamel top of a pastry table or the zinc-covered or vitrolite 
top of a kitchen cabinet will be satisfactory for the rolling out of 
the pastry, as will also a hardwood molding board. Whichever one 
of these is used should, of course, be perfectly clean and dry. 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 



PASTRY AND PIE MAKING 



METHOBS OF MIXING PASTRY 

14. Several methods of mixing the ingredients used in pastry 
are followed, each one producing a different effect in the finished 
product. The method employed in the making of plain pastry, such 
as is commonly used for pies, consists in first mixing the shortening 
and the flour and then adding the liquid. 

Another method is adopted for pastries that are intended to be 
somewhat flakier and of a little better quality than plain pastry. In 
this method, half of the fat is mixed with the flour and the water is 
then added to the mixture. With this done, the dough that is formed 
is roljed out, the remaining fat placed on it, and the pastry then 
folded and rolled repeatedly in such a way as to incorporate all 
the fat. 

Still another method is followed when puff paste or fancy pastry 
dishes are desired. Only a very small quantity of fat is mixed with 
the flour or flour alone is prepared. Water is then added and the 
mixture is kneaded until it becomes smooth and elastic. When the 
kneading is done, the dough is rolled out in a certain shape, the fat 
is placed on it, and, after it is folded over the fat, it is put through 
a series of foldings and rollings until all the fat is incorporated. 

The first and the third of these methods are explained and illus- 
trated here in detail, so that the housewife ought not have any diffi- 
culty in producing splendid results. As the second method is 
practically a combination of the other two, familiarity with them 
will insure success with it. 

Pastry ingredients may be mixed by methods that differ from the 
three just mentioned. One of these is illustrated in the method 
given later for the making of easy pastry. This seems to be a com- 
plete reversal of the rules observed in making pastry in the usual 
Ways. The water is hot and the fat is melted in it. The flour is 
added to the liquid and the fat instead of the liquid being added to 
the flour and the fat. In spite of the fact that all this appears to be 
contrary, the results obtained by this method are satisfactory. 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



20 



PASTRY FOR PIES 



MAKING AND BAKING 

15. Procedure in Making Plain Pastry. — The first step in 
the making of plain pastry consists in sifting the flour with the salt 
into the mixing bowl. After this has been done, the fat should be 
worked into the flour, an operation that may be accomplished in 
three ways. 

The method most commonly adopted is to work in the fat with the 
fingers ; but this plan has its disadvantages in that it is not a very 
agreeable way and the fat becomes so warmed by the higher temper- 
ature of the fingers that 
it is liable to impair the 
finished product. 

Again, some persons 
mix the fat with the 
flour by means of a fork, 
using this utensil to 
crush the lumps of fat 
against the sides of the 
bowl. 

By far the most satis- 
factory method and the 
one that produces the 
best results is that shown 
•in Fig. 2. Put the re- 
quired amount of fat 
into the bowl containing the flour and the salt, and then, with two 
knives, as shown, cut the fat into the flour until the particles of fat 
are about the size of a small pea. As can readily be seen, this 
method, which is perhaps as speedy as any method that may be 
adopted, has the advantage of being entirely sanitary. 

16. The next step is that of adding the liquid to the mixture of 
flour and fat. Heap the particles up in the center of the bowl, make 
a depression in the mixture, and, as shown in Fig. 3, pour the water 
into this in a thin stream, stirring the mixture all the time with a 
knife or a spatula. Be careful to add just enough water to make 




Fig. 2 



i20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



9 



the mass of fat and flour barely cling together. As soon as the water 
has been added, gather the mixture into a mass preparatory to roll- 
ing it out on the board. 

17. At this point, 
flour the molding board 
or other surface slightly, 
shape enough of the 
dough mixture to cover 
a pie pan into a rounded 
mass, and place it on the 
floured space. Then, as 
shown in Fig. 4, roll it 
out with the rolling pin 
until it is about i inch 
in thickness, using a 
light, careful motion and 
keeping the piece of 
dough as nearly round 
as possible, so that it will fit the pan it is intended to cover. 

When the rolling has been completed, roll the edge of the pastry 
over the rolling pin, hold it carefully over the pie pan, and, as shown 
in Fig. 5, unroll it gradually so that it will fall in the right place and 
cover the pan properly. With the paste in the pan, press it lightly 
with the fingers in order to make it cling closely to the bottom and 
the sides. Then, as shown in Fig. 6, trim the paste evenly by run- 
ning a knife around the edge of the pan. When this is done, the 




Fig. 3 




Fig. 4 



pan is properly covered with paste for a one-crust pie or with the 
bottom crust for a pie that is to have two crusts. 



10 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



.20 




Fig. 5 



18. In case a one-crust pie is to be made, the kind of filling to 
be used determines whether the crust should be baked first or not. 

_ For pies that require 
comparatively long bak- 
ing, such as pumpkin pie, 
for instance, the raw 
crust is filled with the 
mixture and the two, 
crust and mixture, are 
then baked in the oven 
together. However, if 
the filling is one that 
does not require baking 
for any length of time, 
that is, time sufficient to 
bake the pastry, or if the 
filling requires a temper- 
ature that would be too low to bake the pastry, the crust should 
be baked first. In such an event, it is necessary to prick very 
thoroughly the bottom and the sides of the crust with a fork, as 
shown in Fig. 7, so that the air that is confined in the pastry will 
not make bubbles by pushing the pastry up as it expands in baking. 
A perforated pie tin is an advantage in the baking of shells or single- 
crust pies, for it prevents the air from becoming confined between 
the pan and the crust 
and producing air spaces 
that would cause blisters 
to form as the pie is 
baked. If desired, the 
crust may be placed over 
the back of the pan and 
baked, thus forming a 
shell that may be filled 
with a cooked filling and 
served. 

19. When a double- 
crust pie is to be made, 
place the filling, which is usually fruit, on the bottom crust, but do 
not prick the crust in the manner just described. With this done, 




Fig. 6 



§20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



11 



roll out the top crust and, as shown in Fig. 8, mark it with a knife 
in any design. The design serves as an outlet for the steam that 
generally forms inside 
of the pie as the filling 
cooks ; if no provision is 
made for the steam to 
pass out, it will push up 
the crust and thus spoil 
the appearance of the 
pie. Next moisten the 
edge of the lower crust 
with a little water, put- 
ting it on with the finger, 
as shown in Fig. 9. 
Then carefully pick up 
the marked crust, place it over the filling, and press it down so 
that the edges of the bottom and the top crust cling together 
well. In applying the top crust, be careful not to stretch it. If 
it is put on loosely and pressed down on the edge of the lower 
crust without being pulled, the contents will not be so apt to cook 
out of the pie. Trim off the uneven edge with a knife and finish the 
edges of the top and bottom crusts in any desired way. This may be 
done by fluting the edge with the fingers or, as shown in Fig. 10, 
making marks with the tines of a fork. When this has been com- 
pleted, the pie is ready to bake. 




Fig. 7 



1# 



20. Baking the Plain-Pastry Mixture. — As soon as the 




Fig. 8 

pie or other pastry dessert has been prepared, the next step is to 
bake it. To produce the best results, the pastry should be baked as 

W I-C 4-16 



12 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



(20 




Fig. 9 



quickly as possible; consequently, a hot oven is necessary. The 
baking can be accomplished most successfully in the case of a single 

crust baked without the 
filling or a pie containing 
a mixture that does not 
require long cooking. 
Otherwise, the temper- 
ature must be sufficiently 
low to cook the filling so 
that it will be palatable, 
and for this reason the 
pastry is not baked under 
entirely ideal conditions. 
The correct temperature 
for most pastry is from 
500 to 600 degrees; that 
is, the oven should be just about as hot as it can be made. The 
length of time required for the baking depends entirely on the 
heat of the oven and the contents of the pie. It should be remem- 
bered, however, that to be properly baked, the crust should be neither 
burned nor pale looking when taken from the oven, but should be a 
golden brown. Fig. 1 1 shows a two-crust pie that has had just the 
right amount of baking. 



21. When the filling 
of the pie does not re- 
quire so much baking as 
the crust, it is well to 
bake the crust partly be- 
fore putting the filling 
in. This is particularly 
advisable in the case of 
custard pie, for the cus- 
tard is put in as an un- 
cooked mixture and 




Fig. 10 



requires the low temperature necessary for solidifying eggs without 
causing them to curd. On the other hand, pies containing certain 
kinds of filling must be baked slowly. When this condition exists, 
it is advisable to start the baking in a very hot oven, so that the 
crusts will have the benefit of the high temperature. Then the heat 



20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



13 



should be gradually reduced until the filling will cook and the crust 
will not burn. 

22. Often, especially in the baking of fresh berry or cherry pie, 
the juice that forms inside the pie cooks out. This is a condition 
that must be overcome if satisfactory pies are to be the result. Vari- 




FlG. 11 

ous means of preventing it have been suggested, but one of the suc- 
cessful ones consists in rolling a small piece of paper into a funnel 
shape, leaving both ends open, and inserting the small end in one of 
the openings in the top crust. This arrangement provides a vent 
for the steam, and so the juice is less likely to cook out of the crust 
while the pie is baking. 

UTILIZING liEFT-OVER PASTRY 

23. In making pies, it is well to mix only the quantity of 
paste that is desired for the number of pies to be made. Usually, 
1^ cupfuls of flour will make sufficient paste for one double-crust 
pie, provided the pan in which it is made is not too large. In case 
it is necessary to make fresh pie on two consecutive days, a good 
plan is to make at one time enough paste for both days, for what 
remains after the first pie is made may be allowed to stand in the 
refrigerator or some other cool place. Then it may be rolled out on 
the second day and used in exactly the same way as on the first. 
However, it is a rather difficult matter to make the exact amount of 
paste for the pies needed. If nothing more remains, there are 
usually small scraps left over from the trimming of the edge. These 
should by all means be put to some good use, for the material is 
equally as good as that which has been used in the pie and there is 
no reason why it should be wasted. 



>^ 



14 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



§20 



24. Tarts. — A very good way in which to utilize these scraps 
is to make tarts of varioiis kinds and shapes out of them. There 
are a number of attractive ways in which jam, jelly, marmalade, 
fruit butter, fresh fruits, apple sauce, stewed prunes, or other cooked 
or canned fruit may be utilized for the making of tarts. These little 
pastry desserts are the delight of children, most of whom may be 
permitted occasionally to eat such a satisfactory delicacy. 

25. Before attempting to use the pastry scraps, work them 
together with the hands. Then roll the piece out with the rolling 
pin until it is the required thickness and cut it out in the shape 
desired. To make a simple variety of tart, cut two rounds of the 

paste with a cooky cut- 
ter. In one of these, 
whichever is to be used 
for the top, make three 
or four small holes, 
using a thimble or some 
other small cutter. Bake 
these shapes in the oven 
separately, and after 
baking spread the whole 
one with jelly or jam 
and over this place the 
one containing the holes. 

26. Another attrac- 
tive way in which to 
make tarts is to cut 
rounds of the paste, as 
shown in Fig. 12, cover small pans with these rounds, and then bake 
them. Upon taking them from the oven, remove them from the 
pans and fill them with any desired filling in the form of stewed 
fruit, jam, custards, etc. If canned or stewed fruit is used, cook it 
down until it is somewhat thick. These little tarts are delicious 
when they have had a spoonful of meringue baked on the fruit or 
are served with a spoonful of whipped cream. 

27. Still another varjety of tart may be made with very little 
trouble. Cut the rolled paste into pieces about 4 inches square, and, 
on a triangular half of the square, place several spoonfuls of fruit 
with additional sugar, if necessary, and add a little flour to thicken 




Fig. 12 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 15 

the juice that forms. Fold the other triangular half over the fruit 
to cover it, turn the edges of the bottom half over the edges of the 
top, and press them down to keep the fruit from running out. Set 
in the oven and bake until the paste is brown and the filling of the 
tart is cooked. 

28. Small Pies. — Sometimes there may be enough paste 
remaining to make one crust for a small pie. In such an event, cover 
the pan with the paste, add a fruit filling of some kind, such as cran- 
berries, apple sauce, marmalade, or fruit butter, and then, out of 
the scraps that remain, cut several narrow strips and place them over 
the filling. Such an arrangement makes an agreeable change in the 
appearance of this dessert. 

29. Cheese Straws. — Small pieces of pastry that are left over 
may also be used to make cheese straws, which are one of the accom- 
paniments often served with salads. To make them, roll grated 
cheese into the mixture until it is well blended. Then roll out the 
paste until it is about -J inch thick, cut into narrow strips of the 
desired length, and bake in a hot oven. 



RECIPES FOR PASTRY AND PIES 



PASTRY 



30. Several recipes for pastry that may be used in pie making 
are here given. These recipes differ as regards the ingredients used 
and will serve to offer variety in the making of pie crust. With the 
exception of the recipe for easy pastry, the principles of pastry 
making already set forth apply to all these recipes alike. 

31. Plain Pastry. — Pastry made according to the accompany- 
ing directions is the kind that is most frequently used. It requires 
only a medium amount of shortening, and wheat flour is used in its 
preparation. It is very satisfactory for any kind of pie desired. 

Plain Pastry 

1^ c. flour i c. shortening 

i tsp. salt :| to I c. water 

Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl. Chop the shortening 
into the flour with knives. When the fat has been chopped into 



16 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

pieces the size of a small pea, add sufficient cold water to make all 
the particles adhere, mixing them together with a case knife. There 
should not be enough water added to make the paste stick to either 
the bowl or the knife. Divide the mass into halves and press each 
into a round piece with the fingers. Flour the board slightly and 
roll out about i inch thick for the pie crust. 

32. Econoiny Paste. — When both wheat flour and fat must 
be saved, economy paste should be trfed. Barley flour is substituted 
for part of the wheat flour, and this with the wheat makes an excel- 
lent, combination. 

Economy Paste 

1 c. wheat flour -J c. shortening 

■J c. barley flour J to f c. water 

i tsp. salt 
Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl. Chop in the shortening 
until it is in particles about the size of a small pea. Add water until 
the mass will cling together. Roll into sheets about i inch thick for 
pie crust. 

33. Quality Paste. — The accompanying recipe gives directions 
for a very good quality of paste. As will be noted, the lard, which 
is used for pa'rt of the shortening, is added to the flour, and the 
butter, which forms the other part, is worked into the dough. If 
the directions here given are carefully followed, excellent results 
can be expected. 

Quality Paste 

2 c. flour ^ to i c. water 

i tsp. salt .i c. butter 

I c. lard 
Sift the flour and salt into a mixing bowl. Add the lard and chop 
very fine. Add enough water to make a stiff dough. This will 
require just a little more water than the pastes previously given. 
Roll the paste in a rectangular form, spread the butter evenly over 
the paste, and fold so as to make three layers. Turn half way round 
and roll out so as to make a rectangle in the opposite direction. Fold, 
turn, and roll in this way four times, handling the rolling pin and 
paste as lightly as possible. Use to cover the pan and bake in a 
quick oven. 

34. Sour-Cream Pastry. — A slightly different kind of pastry 
can be made by using sour cream for the liquid and adding a small 



§20 PASTRIES AND PIES 17 

quantity of soda to neutralize the acid in the cream. Besides pro- 
viding a means of using up cream that has become sour, this recipe 
makes a pastry that appeals to most persons. 

Sour-Cream Pastry 
1^ c. flour 3 Tb. shortening 

i tsp. salt J to f c. thick sour cream 

i tsp. soda 
Sift the flour, salt, and soda together in a mixing bowl. Chop in 
the shortening and add the cream. Knead the paste slightly and 
after taking it out on the board, divide it into halves. Proceed in 
the usual manner for making pastry. 

35. Easy Pastry. — A departure from the usual kind of pastry 
is easy pastry, directions for which are given in the accompanying 
recipe. It is more moist and a little more .difficult to handle than 
pastry made in the usual way; consequently, it is more ideal for 
single-crust pies than for double-crust ones. Besides being easy to 
• make, pastry of this kind will stand a great deal more handling 
without injury than any other kind. It may be placed on the pan 
and patted out where it seems "too thick or patched where it pulls 
apart. The amounts given here will make one double-crust pie or 
two single-crust pies of medium size. 

Easy Pastry 
i c. fat i tsp. baking powder 

i c. boiling water i tsp. salt 

If c. flour 
Measure the fat into a mixing bowl, pour the boiling water over 
it, and stir until all the fat is softened and melted. Sift together the 
flour, baking powder, and salt, and stir into the water and fat. 
Divide into two portions and roll for crusts. If the crusts are to be 
baked before they are filled, prick them well with a fork to prevent 
the formation of bubbles. 



DOliBlyE-CRUST PIES 

36. As has already been learned, double-crust pies are pies that 
have both a bottom and a top crust and contain a filling of some 
kind. The amounts given in the recipes for pastry are sufficient to 
make the two crusts required for pies of this kind. Any of these 
recipes may be followed, depending on the variety of pastry desired. 

37. Apple Pie No. 1. — To make the best possible apple pie, 
tart apples should be used, for besides giving a good flavor they 



18 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

cook soft inside the pie much more readily than do apples that are 
more nearly sweet. If sour apples cannot be obtained, lemon juice 
sprinkled over the apples after they are placed in the crust will help 
to make them tender. The amount of lemon juice depends, of 
course, on the sourness of the apples. Any desirable spices may be 
used for flavoring, cinnamon and nutmeg being the most popular 
ones. If the apples are very juicy, a little flour mixed with the sugar 
and sprinkled over them will help to thicken the juice, but usually 
this is not necessar}'. A little butter dotted over the apples before 
the top crust is put on also helps to improve the flavor. 

For pie, the apples may be cut in as large or as small pieces as 
desired. However, it is best to cut them into thick slices or about 
sixteenths, that is, to cut each quarter into four pieces. 

Apple Pie No. 1 

1 qt. apples i tsp. cinnamon or 

4 to I c. sugar i tsp. nutmeg 

Salt Lemon juice 

After the pan has bee n covered with the paste, peel the apples, cut 
them into pieces of the desired size, and place them into the paste 
in sufficient quantity to heap the pan. In the process of cooking, 
there will be a certain amount of shrinkage caused by the apple juice 
filling in the spaces as the apples cook and soften ; therefore, in order 
to have a pie thick enough when it is baked, the apples must be 
heaped in the pan before baking. Sprinkle the apples with the sugar, 
to which has been added the nutmeg or the cinnamon. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, and, if the apples 
seem dry, a few tablespoonfuls of water. Dot with butter, wet the 
edges of the under crust, and place the top crust in position. Bake 
for about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

38. Apple Pie No. 2. — Another variety of apple pie is made 
by cooking the apples, putting them between crusts, and then baking 
the whole. This pie does not require so much time in the oven, but 
it needs a hot oven. It has a somewhat richer flavor than the preced- 
ing pie, due to the brown sugar used in making it. 

Apple Pie No. 2 

Apples § c. brown sugar 

^ c. water Cinnamon 

Prepare the required number of apples for one pie, place in a 
baking dish with the water and brown sugar, and bake in the oveH 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 19 

until the apples are tender and the water has sufficiently evaporated. 
This should be done in a slow oven, so as not to burn the apples and 
to give them rather long cooking. Remove from the oven, place on 
the lower crust, sprinkle with cinnamon, and cover with the upper 
crust. Bake in a hot oven until the crusts are sufficiently baked 
and brown. 

39. Berry Pie. — Blackberries, blueberries or huckleberries, 
and red and black raspberries may be used for pie in the same way 
by merely varying the amount of sugar with the sourness of the 
berries. For instance, blackberries will probably require a little 
more sugar than raspberries, while blueberries will require the least. 

Berry Pie 
3 to 4 c. berries 3 Tb. flour 
I to f c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Look the berries over carefully and remove any spoiled ones, 
leaves, and stems. Wash thoroughly and fill the lower crust. Add 
the sugar mixed with the flour and salt. Cover with the top crust 
and bake for about 30 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

40. Cherry Pie. — Both sweet and sour cherries may be used 
for making pie, but sour cherries are by far the more desirable. 
Their only disadvantage is that they require a rather large amount 
of sugar. Cherries used for pies should always be seeded. Canned 
cherries may be used for this purpose as Well as fresh ones, but 
they are not so delicious. The proportion of sugar used for making 
cherry pie will, of course, need to be varied according to the sourness 
of the cherries used. 

Cheery Pie 
4 c. seeded cherries 4 Tb. flour 

1^ c. sugar Pinch of salt 

Fill the lower crust of the pie with the cherries. Mix the sugar, 
flour, and salt and sprinkle over the top. Moisten the edge of the 
lower crust, place the top crust in position, and bake in a moderately 
hot oven for about 30 or 35 minutes. 

41. Peacli Pie. — Fresh peaches make a very delicious pie. 
Canned peaches may be used as well, but they do not make so good 
a pie. Less sugar will be needed if canned peaches are used instead 
of fresh ones because they are usually canned with sugar. Cling- 
stone peaches may be used rather advantageously for making pie 
because the fact ,that they cannot be cut from the stones in uniform 



20 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

pieces makes less difference for pie than for serving in almost any 
other way. 

Peach Pee 
1 qt. sliced peaches Pinch of salt 

I c. sugar 3 Tb. flour 

Fill the lower crust with the sliced peaches and sprinkle with the 
sugar, salt, and flour, which have been previously mixed. Moisten 
the edge of the lower crust, cover with the top crust, and bake in a 
moderately hot oven for 30 to 40 minutes. Peach pie served hot 
with whipped cream makes a very delicious dessert. 

42. Thickening Juicy Fruits for Pies. — ^When particularly 
juicy fruit, such as berries, cherries, peaches, etc., is used for pie, 
flour or other starchy material must necessarily be used to thicken 
the juice and thus prevent it from running out when the pie is 
served. If the fruit is very sour, a proportionately larger quantity 
of flour will be necessary. This is due to the fact that the acid of 
the fruit reduces the starch in the flour to dextrine, and this form 
of carbohydrate does not have so much thickening power as the 
starch in its original form had. 

The same thing takes place when browned flour is used in making 
sauce or gravy. As experience will prove, browned flour must be 
used in greater quantity than white flour or a thinner sauce will be 
the result. The browned flour and the flour cooked with the acid of 
fruits are similar so far as their thickening power is concerned, for 
the one is reduced to dextrine by the application of dry heat or hot 
fat and the other by moist heat and the presence of acid. 

43. Rhubarb Pie. — Rhubarb is practically the first fresh 
material for pie that can be purchased in the spring and is therefore 
very much appreciated. The most popular form in which it is served 
is probably in pie. It requires considerable sugar in order to make 
it palatable and should be thickened with starchy material so that it 
will not be too juicy when it is served. 

Rhubarb Pie 
1 qt. rhubarb 2 Tb. corn starch 
He. sugar Pinch of salt 

Cut the rhubarb into inch lengths without removing the skin and 
place in the lower crust. Mix the sugar, corn starch, and salt, and 
sprinkle over the top. Cover with a top crust and bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven for about 35 minutes. If desired, some lemon rind 
may be grated into the pie to give additional flavor. 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 21 

44. Mince Pie. — Mince meat, which is much used for pies 
during the fall and winter season, is a concoction that finds favor 
with most people. It may be comparatively simple or it may contain 
a large variety of ingredients, and in accordance with this variation 
it may be cheap or expensive. However, the ingredients generally 
used in this mixture are apples, dried fruits, sugar, molasses, cider, 
and chopped beef and suet. Other fruits, such as quinces, oranges, 
and citron, and various spices are also often used for flavoring. The 
cheaper cuts of meat, such as the neck, shoulder, brisket, etc., are 
suitable for this purpose, because the meat is ground so fine in 
making the mince meat that the fact that it was at all tough can be 
very readily concealed. Such expensive material as citron can be 
omitted altogether if desired and greater quantities of apples, which 
are the cheapest ingredient, used. A slight variation in the ingre- 
dients does not make any material difference in this mixture and the 
recipes given are submitted merely as a basis from which to work. 
If used just as they are given, they will be found to be excellent; 
but if it is necessary to practice greater economy or if it is not possi- 
ble to secure all the ingredients called for, they may be varied to 
suit conditions. The juice from pickled fruits, jelly, or the juice 
from preserves or canned cherries may be used in any desired pro- 
portion in the making of mince meat to replace some of the cider. 

45. Mince pie is most palatable when served warm, but it is 
entirely permissible to make several pies at a time and then warm 
them in the oven before serving. In this way they may be kept over 
for several days. Pie of this kind made with the usual ingredients 
is a heavy dessert, for it contains a certain amount of protein 
material and is high in fat and carbohydrate. This fact should be 
taken into consideration in meal planning, so that the dessert may 
balance properly with the other food. 

Mince Pie 

4 lb. beef 1 lb. sugar 

15 medium-size apples 1 c. vinegar 

4 quinces, chopped 3 c. cider 

1 lb. citron 1^ c. molasses 

3 lb. raisins, seeded 2 Tb. cinnamon 

6 oranges 2 tsp. cloves 

2 c. suet 2 tsp. nutmeg 

Let the beef simmer in sufificient water to cover it well until it is 
tender, and then allow it to cool in the water in which it was cooked. 



22 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

This broth may be used as part of the liquid in the mince meat if 
desired.. Chop the meat very fine, with a chopping knife and bowl 
or put it through a food chopper. Chop the apples and quinces, cut 
the citron, and wash the raisins. Squeeze the juice from the oranges 
and grate the rinds. Force the suet through a food chopper or chop 
it with a chopping knife. Mix all these ingredients, add the sugar, 
liquids, and spices, and place in a large vessel. Simmer slowly for 
1 hour. Stir frequently to prevent scorching. If the mince meat is 
cooked in the oven, it is less likely to scorch. Seal in fruit jars the 
same as for canned fruit and store for future use. 

To bake mince pie, fill the lower crust with the mince-meat mix- 
ture, place the upper crust in position, and put the pie into a hot oven. 
Gradually reduce the heat, baking the pie for about 45 minutes. 

46. Mock Mince Pie. — If a slightly more economical mince 
pie than the preceding one is desired, the recipe here given for mock 
mince pie may be followed. The various ingredients in the quanti- 
ties mentioned will make enough for four or five pies of regular 
size. To make up more than this is not advisable because the 
material will not keep so well, nor is it intended to be stored for 
future use. 

Mock Mince Pm 

2 c. suet i c. vinegar 

8 apples 1 lb. raisins 

8 crackers 1 Tb. cinnamon 

1 c. sugar 1 tsp. cloves 

1 c. molasses 1 tsp. nutmeg 
1^ c. corn sirup 1 tsp. salt 

2 colder 

Force the suet and apples through a food chopper or chop them in 
a chopping bowl. Crush the crackers with a rolling pin and add 
them. Add the sugar, molasses, corn sirup, cider, vinegar, raisins, 
spices, and salt. Cook together very slowly for about 1 hour, stirring 
to prevent burning. If more liquid is required, add cider or some 
other fruit juice, or, if these are not available, add plain water. Fill 
the lower crust of the pie with this mixture, cover with the top crust, 
and start baking in a hot oven, gradually lowering the temperature 
and continuing to bake for 40 to 50 minutes. 

47. Mock Cherry Pie. — A pie that closely resembles cherry 
pie in both flavor and appearance may be had by combining cran- 
berries and raisins. This is an excellent substitute for cherry pie 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 23 

and may be made at times when fresh cherries cannot be obtained 
and canned cherries are not in supply. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

2 c. cranberries 1 c. sugar 

f c. sultana raisins 2 Tb. flour 

I c. water 1 Tb. butter 

Wash the cranberries and cut them in half. Wash the raisins and 
mix them with the cranberries. Add the water and cook until the 
fruit is soft. Mix the sugar, flour, and butter and add to the mix- 
ture. Cook until the flour thickens, place the mixture in the lower 
crust, cover with a top crust, and bake in a hot oven until nicely 
browned. 

48. Dried-Fruit Pies. — Dried fruits may be used very suc- 
cessfully for pies if they are properly prepared. At any time that 
it is impossible to obtain fresh fruits and no fruits have been canned 
for pie making, dried fruits will prove to be very satisfactory. 
Dried apples, apricots, peaches, prunes, and raisins make delicious 
pies. With the exception of raisins, for which a special recipe is 
given, the same directions may be used for any of the pies made 
with dried fruits. 

Look the fruit over carefully, wash, and put in sufficient warm 
water to cover. Soak overnight. Put to cook in the water in which 
the fruit has been soaked and simmer slowly until tender. Sweeten 
to taste. The filling is then ready for a pie. Fill the lower crust with 
the stewed fruit, add about 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, unless a large 
quantity of juice is used, when more flour will be necessary, cover 
with a top crust, and bake in a hot oven. 

49. Raisin Pie. — Pie in which raisins are used for the filling 
is one that may be made at any season of the year and that finds 
favor with most persons. In pie of this kind, spices are used tc 
add flavor. 

Raisin Pie 

1 J c. raisins i tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. water | tsp. cloves 

i c. sugar J tsp. salt 
4 Tb. flour 

Clean the raisins and soak them overnight in the water. Put to 
cook in the same water and simmer gently until tender. Mix the 



24 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

sugar, flour, spices, and salt and add to the raisins. Cook until the 
mixture is thick, fill the lower crust of a pie, cover with the top 
crust, and bake in a hot oven. 



ONE-CRUST PIES 

50. Many varieties of pies are made with only one crust, and 
these usually prove more attractive than those having two crusts. 
As a rule, the filling is a custard or a corn-starch mixture, but often 
fruits of various kinds, as well as pumpkin and squash, are used 
in the making of pies of this kind. Frequently, meringue is used as 
a covering for one-crust pies; or, if an especially delicious dessert 
is desired, a thick layer of stiffly beaten and sweetened whipped 
cream is often added to the pie just before serving. Again, a partly 
open pie is sometimes made, this being done by putting strips or 
pieces of paste over the filling before the pie is baked. Individual 
pies of this kind are attractive for special occasions and may be made 
to advantage if small pie pans are in supply. 

The crust for one-crust pies is often placed over the back of the 
pan and baked. It is then removed, filled with the desired filling, 
and returned to the oven to complete the baking. Whether the lower 
crust should not be baked or should be partly or entirely baked before 
the filling is put into it depends on the character of the filling and the 
degree of temperature required to cook it. 

51. Meringue for One-Crust Pies. — Since meringue is often 
used as a garnish for one-crust pies, the housewife should under- 
stand its nature and the proper procedure in its making. When it is 
correctly made and properly baked, it is very attractive and improves 
the appearance of the dessert, but failure in these respects is likely 
to result in a tough, shrunken meringue, which had better be omitted, 
as it detracts from the appearance of the pie and is not agreeable 
to the taste. 

If an attractive, appetizing meringue is to be the result, the eggs 
that are used must be in good condition and very cold ; also, they 
must be properly beaten so that there will be no loss of air in manip- 
ulating the whites when they are placed on top of the pie mixture. 
The baking is important, too, both the length of time the meringue 
remains in the oven and the temperature to which it is subjected 
having a direct bearing on the finished meringue. 



§20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



25 



52. To make meringue, first separate the whites from the yolks 
and chill them thoroughly. Beat them with a fork or an egg whip 
until they are almost stiff, that is, until they will hold their shape 
fairly well but will drop from the fork or whip when it is raised. 
At this point, begin to add the sugar, which, if possible, should be 
either confectioner's or pulverized, although granulated sugar may 
be used if the others cannot be obtained. Add the sugar slowly and 
continue the beating until all of it has been incorporated. The 
meringue is then ready to place on the filling. It should be remem- 
bered that the filling must be partly or entirely cooked before the 
meringue is applied, so that when the pie is returned to the oven 
nothing but the meringue will require cooking. 



53. The manner in which meringue is placed on pie has much 
to do with the appearance of the pie. If it is spread on the filling 




Fig. 13 

in an even layer, the pie will invariably look stiff and unattractive. 
By far the better way is to drop it by spoonfuls roughly over the top 
of the filling, or first to spread a thin layer over the top in order to 
cover the entire surface and then to drop the remainder of the 
meringue over this by spoonfuls. Or, it may be forced through 
a pastry tube into rosettes or frills of any preferred design. The 
advantage of applying it unevenly rather than in a thin layer is that 
the rough surface will brown where the spots are high and the 
depressions will be a lighter brown or white. When the pie has been 
covered with meringue, set it in a moderate oven and let it bake for 
12 to 15 minutes, or until it is properly browned, when it will appear 
as in Fig. 13. By no means allow the meringue to remain in the oven 



26 PASTRIES AND PIES §20 

longer than this, for as soon as the baking is completed, it will imme- 
diately begin to shrink and toughen. 

Meringue for Pies 
2 egg whites Vanilla or 

2 Tb. pulverized or lemon juice 

granulated sugar 
Beat the egg whites according to the directions given, add the 
sugar slowly, and continue the beating. Then add the flavoring. 
Cover the filling, place in a moderate oven, and bake for 12 to 
15 minutes. 

54. Butterscotcli Pie. — A sweet dessert that is usually a 
favorite may be had by making butterscotch pie. The necessary 
ingredients for this kind of pie are few and simple. When served 
with whipped cream in place of meringue, it makes a very rich and 
delicious dessert. 

Butterscotch Pie 

1 c. brown sugar IJ c. milk 

i c. corn starch 2 Tb. butter 

i tsj>. salt i tsp. vanilla 

1 c. water, boiling 
Mix the sugar, corn starch, and salt, and add the boiling water to 
them. Cook until the mixture has thickened and in the meantime 
heat the milk. Stir in the butter, add the milk, and cook the entire 
mixture in a double boiler for 15 minutes. Add the vanilla. Pour 
into the baked pie crust, cover with meringue, and bake in a moderate 
oven, or cook without the meringue, then cool and cover with 
whipped cream' before serving. 

55. Cliocolate Pie. — Chocolate corn-starch pudding or choco- 
late blanc mange thickened with any starchy material and poured 
into a baked crust makes chocolate pie. This may be made as strong 
with chocolate as desired, but care should be taken not to make it 
too stiff or it will be pasty. 

Chocolate Pie 
2i c. milk 1^ sq. bUter chocolate 

1 c. sugar 1 egg 

I c. flour i tsp. vanilla 

I tsp. salt 
Heat the milk to scalding in a double boiler. Mix the sugar, flour, 
and salt and add to the milk. Cook over the flame until the flour 
has thickened. Return to the double boiler and cook for 10 or 15 
minutes longer. Melt the chocolate over hot water and add to the 



§ 20 , PASTRIES AND PIES 27 

mixture. Beat the egg and add slowly to the mixture, remove from 
the fire, and add the vanilla. Pour into a baked pie crust, cover with 
merii^ue, if desired, and bake in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 
minutes. If the meringue is omitted, cool and cover with whipped 
cream just before serving. 

56. Coconut Pie. — The flavor of coconuf added to an already 
delicious corn-starch custard makes a pie that never fajls.to tempt 
the appetite of every one. The crust for a pie of this ^d should 
always be baked in a deep pan. 

Coconut Pie 

2 c. milk i c. corn starch 

1 c. coconut i tsp. salt 

§ c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Put the milk in a double boiler and steep the coconut in it until 
the milk is hot. Mix the sugar, corn starch, Imd salt, add to the 
milk, and cook directly over the|f[a.me until the mixture has thick- 
ened. Return to the double boiler and cook for 10 or 15 minutes 
longer. Remove from the heat, add the vanilla, and pour into a 
baked pie crust. Cover with meringue, if d^red. 

57. Craiiberry Pie. — Persons who are fond of cranberries are 
always pleased when cranberry pie is served. As these berries are 
somewhat tart in flayor, more sugar than is generally used for pie 
is needed. Before the berries are put on to cook, they should be 
cleaned according to the directions given in Fruit and Fruit Desserts. 

Cranbeery Pie 
1 qt. cranberries 2 c. sugar ^ 
li c. water 
Cook the cranberries and water in a closed vessel until the skins 
have cracked and then add" the sugar. Cook for a few minutes 
Iqjiger to ajlow the sugar to dissolve. Pour into an unbaked pie 
crust and cover with half-inch strips of paste placed over the top 
to form a lattice effect. Place in a moderate i oven and bake until 
the crust is nicely browned. _^, . ^ 

58. Cream Pie. — The plain corn-starcn custard mixture used 
for creani;<pie may be flavored as desired. The combination ofHertion 
and vanilla is suggested here to give something a little unusual. If 
the pie is to be eaten at once upon being made, a layer of sliced 
bananas or other fresl^iruit may be placed on the crust and the 
custard poured over it after being cooked sufficiently not to aflfect the 

W I-C 4^17 



28 PASTRIES AND PIES^ §20 



fruit. In such an event, the merin^e musf be baked very quickly, 
or whipped cream may be used in place of it. Tljis pie may be made 
with one egg if desired. k 

Ckeam Pie 

2J c. milk 2 eggs — 

1 c.'isugar i tsp. vapilla " 

i c. flour i tsp. lemon extract . 

fi tsp. salt 
; milk in a double boiler. Mix the sugar, flour, and salt 
and stir into the hot milk. Cgok over the fire until the flour has ( 
thickenjsd. Place in a double boiler apd cook for 10 or 15 minutes 
longer. Beat the yolks of the eggs and add them to the mixture, 
"i^emove from the heat, add the flavoring, and pour intcf the baked 
crust of a pie. Make meringue of the:iwhites of the.eggs,^ cover 
the mixture, place iSa moderate oven, and bake for 10 to 15 minutes. 

59. Custard Pie. — Custarfl pie is made with the usual propor- 
tion of milk and eg^s necessary j.or''lhickening. A dash of nutmeg 
is considered to improve the flavor and it also makes the surface of 
the pie a little more attractive. -^ ' 

U C0STAM Pie ^ ^ 

3 eggs i tsp. salt _ ^^^ * 

3 c. milk 1 tsp. vanil|a. • 

a f c. sugaf 
Beat the eggs slightly and add the milk, sugar, salt, and vanilla. 
Partly bake the crust for the custard, but remove it from the Qven 
before it has begun to gef crisp.- Pour in the custard, place in a 
moderate ovei^ and bake until a knife will come out clean when 
inserted. The ciJfctard should by no means be overbaked,. as the 
result will Be the same curding that occurs 'in an ordinary baked, 
custard. ' . 

60. Date Cream^le. — Using dates for pie is a rather unusual 
means of adding themio the diet, but it is a very good one and pro- 
due^ an excellent dessert. If desirerf, more of the date puree may ' 
be siHded to^he mixture that is given- in the recipe. The result will 
be' a filling that has more of the date &Lv^g. ^^\ 

Date Cream Fie ■' . 

li c. stoned dates J c. sugar 

i c. water -j tsp^alt 

2 eggs , i tsjj^mnamon 

2 c. milk * % • 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 29 

Steam the dates in the water in a double boiler until they are soft. 
Rub through a sieve. Beat the eggs slightly and add them with the 
milk to the dates. Add the sugar, salt, and cipnamon. Pour into a 
partly baked pie crust, place in a moderate oven, and continue the 
baking as for custard pie. 

61. Lemon Pie Uch 1. — A plain lemon pie that is com{)ara- 
tively inexpensive may be made by following the directions given 
here. More eggs, of course, will make a better" pie and theyjmay be 
added if desired. Grating the rind'of tj^^lembn^ds flavil" to the 
filling, but too much will give a bitter taste.ALemon juice should 
never be cooked with the corn' search, Hg) the felling will graduall]^ 
become thinner and the starch will lose its value as .a thickening, 
agent. , 

Lemon Pie No. 1 ^t''} 
2 c. water ^ 2 eggs "" ^^ 
i c. sugar Wlf^^i c. lemon juice 
i tsp. salt Grated rind of 1 lemon 

■J CfCorn starch ^ « 

■^ting the water to the boiling point. Mix the siigar, salt, arid corn ' 
OstaTch and add»to the water. Cook directly over the flame until the 
mixtufe is thickenfji and then place, in a double boiler. Separate 
the eggs, beat the^^olks, an.d to them add the lemon juice and th& 
{ grated, rind of the lemon. Beat all well and add to 'the c?^-starch,9 
mixture. Remove frSm the fire atfd-pour into thf baked, cruat ofa . 
pie. Make meringue of the egg, whites and place ^n top of ^he' fill- 
ing. Brown in the oven, cool, and serve. ^4. 



62. Lemon Pie No. 2, — J'h^'acpompanying recipe is simUar to_,' 
lemon pie No., 1, exctept that it; coifeins some butter and in 'qtmntity' 
is a larger recipe. If more than'^ne pie is desired at a time, it is 
eagy to multiply ine^^tities given. 4} ^ 

iwp?salt i^. Grated rind of JMeimn 

t^coCTi starch ^jA c. lemon j^ice \ * , 
3 c. wa^ ^^Tb.buttei- \|^s^ 

Mix the sugar, salt, and corn starch and add tb^the boilingk Water.^^ 
Cook directly over the flame until thS mixture b^coqies thick. Then 
pla'ce in a double bqjler. Separate the eggs,-,beat,the yolks, and add' . 
to them the grated rind oftjemon arid' the'le^'h'' juice. ,Stir all into 
the corn-staroji mixtare. Add the butter, and \m^ it has melted 





I 



30 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

remqye from the heat. Pour the mixture into the baked crust of a 
pie. Make meringue of the egg whites, cover the filling with the 
meringue, and bake in a moderate oven until a delicate brown. 

63. Orange Pie. — An orange pie is similar to a lemon pie, 
except that orange juice, together with grated orange rind, is used 
to give flavor and a little lemon juice is added for acidity. Pie of 
this kind makes a piecing change from the desserts usually served. 

/ Orange Pie 

2 c. j|^ter , 2 eggs 

i c.^rt^tarch Grated rind of 1 orange 
1 c. sugar @ J c. orange juice 
i tsp. salt 2 Tb. lemon juice 

king the water to the boiling point. Mix the com starch, sugar, 
id salt and add toi^^ water. Cook directly over the flame until 
!ie corn starch has lH^ened. Place in a double boiler. Separate 
the eggs, beat the yolks, and to th«n add the grated^ rind of the 
orange and the orange and lemon juice. Beat well and add to the 
corn-starch mixture. Remove from the heat and paur into a baked 
crust of a pie. Make meringue of the egg whites, cover the filling, 
and bake until a delicate brown in a moderate oven. 

64. Pineapple Pie. — Nothing more delicious in the way of_ a, 

one-crust pie can be made than pineapple pie. It is similar to lemon'^, 
pie, but 3^iffers in that a certain amount of the fruit is used in the • 
^filling. Therefore, unless the fruit is cut very fine, the pie will be 
difficult^o cut^jM ^ 

^1^ H c. water (^H^Sft *^- pineapple juice 
^ i c. corn star^H^H| Tb. lemon ji^^e 

1 c. sugar ^^^^ c.^shredded or finely 
^ tsp. salt chopped pin^nple 

1 egg ^^^ ^ .d'^^^L 

Bring the water to the b^^p polht. Mj|ftheMM^tarch. sugar, 

f and salt and add to the boili^^water. Co^d ffeCTrvj^ er the flcune 

. until the mixture has^ickened. Sepatate tffl|^^Hat the yolk, and 

add to the piqeapple and lemon juice. Stir thiTinto the corn-starch 

mixture, remove trom the heat, and add the pineapple. Fill a baked 

crust of a pie, make meringue of the egg white, cover the filling, 

arid bake in a moderate oven until delicately browned. 

65. Pum p^n Pie No. 1. — There are very few persons with 
whom pumpkii^^ is not a favorite.') While it is especially popular 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 31 

in the autumn, it may be made at any time of the year. Sometimes 
pumpkin is dried or canned in the household or commercially for 
this purpose. Then, too, pumpkins may be kept all winter if they 
are stored in a cool, dry place and are not bruised when put away. 

Pumpkin Pie No. 1 

li c. pumpkin i tsp. ginger 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg i tsp. cloves 

■J c. sugar 1 Tb. corn starch 

f tsp. salt 
The preparation of the pumpkin is the first step in the making of 
pumpkin pie. First chop the pumpkin into 3- or 4-inch pieces, 
remove the seeds, and peel off the skin. Cut the peeled pulp into 
cubes about 1 inch square and cook with just enough water to start 
the cooking or steam until the pumpkin is soft. When it has become 
soft, mash thoroughly or force through a sieve, and then cook again, 
stirring frequently to prevent the pumpkin from burning. Cook 
until as much water as possible has been evaporated and the mass of 
pumpkin seems quite dry. With the pumpkin prepared, mix the milk 
with it and add the beaten egg. Stir in the sugar, salt, spices, and 
corn starch. Fill partly baked pie crust with this mixture and 
bake in a moderate oven until the filling is cooked thoroughly and the 
crust is baked. 

66. Pumpkin Pie No. 2. — Pumpkin pie is in reality a form 
of custard to which spice is added, but much of the original flavor of 
the pumpkin is lost if too much spice is used. The finished product 
should not be dark in color, but a golden brown. This dessert 
becomes much more delicious by adding a layer of whipped cream 
to it just before serving. 

Pumpkin Pie No. 2 

2 c. pumpkin | tsp. salt 

li c. milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

3 eggs ^ tsp. cloves 
i c. sugar ^ tsp. nutmeg 

Prepare the pumpkin as directed in Art. 65 and add the milk to 
it. Beat the eggs and add to them the sugar, salt, and spices. Stir 
this into the mixture. Fill partly baked pie crust and bake in a 
moderate oven until the mixture is set and the crust is baked. Serve 
plain or spread a layer of whipped cream over the pie when it has 
cooled. 



32 PASTRIES AND PIES § 2(y 

67. Squash Pie. — Pie that is similar to pumpkin pie may be 
made by using winter squash instead of pumpkin. It is somewhat 
finer in texture than pumpkin, and most persons consider it to be 
superior in flavor. When squash is desired for pies, it should be 
prepared in the same way as pumpkin. 

Squash Pie 

2 c. squash ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 egg i tsp. nutmeg 
i c. sugar 

Mix the squash and milk and add the beaten egg, sugar, salt, and 
spices. Fill an unbaked pie crust, place in a moderate oven, and bake 
until the mixture is set and the crust is brown. 

68. Strawberry Pie. — The season for strawberries being 
short, it is usually desired to use them in as many ways as possible. 
Strawberry pie is offered as one of the more unusual ways. Made 
into individual pies or tarts and served with whipped cream, this 
furnishes a very attractive dessert. 

Stkawberry Pie 

1 qt. strawberries 3 Tb. flour 

li c. sugar 

Spread the strawberries on a single unbaked crust of a pie. Mix 
the sugar and flour and sprinkle over the berries. Put half-inch 
strips of paste across the top in the form of a lattice. Place in the 
oven and bake until the crust is brown, the strawberries are well 
cooked, and the juice is thick. 

69. Sweet-Potato Pie. — The amount of milk needed for 
making sweet-potato pie varies according to the dryness of the pota- 
toes. Before they can be used for pie, the sweet potatoes must be 
cooked until they are tender and then mashed. The quantities given 
in the accompanying recipe will make enough filling for two pies. 

Sweet-Potato Pie 

3 c. sweet potato 1 tsp. cinnamon 

f c. sugar i tsp. ginger 

1 tsp. salt 2 eggs 

i tsp. nutmeg 2 c. milk 
i tsp. cloves 

To the sweet potatoes add the dry ingredients and the unbeaten 
eggs, and then beat the mixture thoroughly. Pour in the milk and 



§20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



33 



stir well. Turn into a partly baked pie crust, place in a moderate 
oven, and bake until the filling is set. 

70. Open Peach Pie. — Pare sufficient peaches to cover a 
single-crust pie. Cut them into halves, remove the seeds, and place 
in a single layer over an unbaked pie crust. Cover with 1 cupful of 
sugar to which have been added 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. Dot well 
with butter, add i cupful of water, and place in the oven. Bake 
until the crust is brown and the peaches are well cooked. Apples 
used in the same way make a delicious dessert. 



PUFF PASTE 

71. Procedure in Making- Puff Paste. — The making of 
puff paste differs somewhat from the making of plain pastry. If 
puff paste is to be successful, it must be made carefully and with 
close attention to every detail. Even then the first attempt may not 
prove to be entirely successful, 
for often considerable experience 
is required before one becomes 
expert in the making of this deli- 
cate pastry. The best time to 
make puff paste is in the cold 
weather, as the butter, which is 
the fat used, can be handled 
more easily and rolled into the 
paste with greater success if it, 
as well as the other ingredients, 
are cold. If puf? paste is desired 
in weather that is not cold, the 
mixture will have to be placed 
on ice at various intervals, for it 
positively must be kept as cold as 
possible. However, it is always 
preferable to make puff paste without the assistance of ice. Further 
essentials in the making of successful puff paste are a light touch 
and as little handling as possible. Heavy pressure with the rolling 
pin and rolling in the wrong direction are mistakes that result in an 
inferior product. The desirable light, tender qualities of puff paste 
can be obtained only by giving attention to these details. 




Fit. 14 



34 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



§20 



72. Before beginning the mixing of puff paste, wash the bowl, 
spoon, and hands first in hot water to insure perfect cleanliness and 

then in cold water to 
make them as cold as 
possible. Measure the 
ingredients very care- 
fully, or, better, weigh 
them if possible. Put 
the butter in a mass in 
the bowl and, as shown 
in Fig. 14, wash out the 
salt by running cold 
water over the piece and 
working it with a wooden spoon or a butter paddle. When it 
becomes hard and waxy and may be handled with the hands, take it 
from the bowl and remove the water by patting it vigorously, first 
on one side and then on the other. Finally, form it into a flat, oblong 
piece and set it into the refrigerator to harden. 




Fig. 15 



73. With the butter ready, break off a tablespoonf ul or two and 
mix it with all of the flour except 2 tablespoonfuls, which must be 
retained for flouring the board, in the same way as for plain pastry. 
Then add the water, and, when a mass is formed, remove it to a 
well-floured board and knead it as shown in Fig. 15. When the 
mixture has become somewhat elastic, cover it with a towel, as shown 
in Fig. 16, and allow it 
to remain covered for 3 
to 5 minutes. Then roll 
it into an oblong piece, 
and, as in Fig. 17, place 
the butter on one end of 
it. Bring the opposite 
end down over the butter 
and press the edges to- 
gether with the tips of 
the fingers, as shown in 
Fig. 18. Then, with the 
rolling pin, make several 
dents in the dough mixture and the butter, as shown in Fig. 19, and 
begin to roll, being careful to roll in one direction and not to allow 




Fig. la 



20 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



35 




Fig. 17 



the butter to come through the paste. If it should come through, it 

will have to be treated until it becomes perfectly cold and hard again 

before the making can 

go on. The quickest and 

most satisfactory way in 

which to accomplish this 

is to wrap it in a piece of 

linen, set it on a plate in 

a pan of crushed ice, and 

place another pan of 

crushed ice over the top 

of it. In case this is 

done once, it will have to 

be done each time the 

paste is rolled. 

Continue to roll until 
a rectangular piece is formed, always being careful to move the 
rolling pin in the same direction and never to roll backwards and 
forwards. With a long, narrow piece of dough formed, fold about 
one-third under and one-third over, as shown in Fig. 20, turn the 
open end toward you, and roll lightly and carefully in one direction 
until another long, narrow piece of dough is formed. Fold this in 
the same way, turn it half way around, and roll again. Continue 
in this manner until the piece has been rolled about six times and, 
during the entire process, try, if possible, to keep the butter from 
coming through. As may be readily understood, this can be accom- 
plished only with light, 
careful handling. 

As soon as the rolling 
has been completed in 
the manner described, 
cut the pufif paste into 
the desired shapes and 
place them on the ice for 
about i hour or until 
they are thoroughly 
chilled. They are then 
ready to be baked. If 
time is too limited to keep the paste on ice for ^ hour, chill it as long 
as possible before baking. 




Fig. 18 



36 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



§2» 



74. Baking Puff Paste, — ^A very hot oven is required for 
successful puff paste. In fact, the colder the pastry and the hotter 
the oven, the better will be the chances for light pastry. The air 
incorporated between the layers of the paste by the folding and roll- 
ing expands in the heat of the oven, causing the paste to rise and 
producing the characteristic lightness. For instance, if the pieces 

of paste are about i inch 
thick before baking, they 
should be 2 inches thick 
when baked. Set the 
pan containing the pieces 
on the floor of the oven 
in order to give the paste 
every opportunity to 
rise. If it seems to rise 
unevenly, turn it around 
so that it will get the 
same heat on all sides. Should there be any danger of the paste 
burning on the bottom, put pieces of heavy paper or asbestos under 
the pan and should it appear to burn on top, put pieces of paper 
directly over the paste on the rack above. Bake until light and nicely 
browned and then remove from the oven. 




Fig. 19 



75. Recipe for Puff Paste. — Either bread or pastry flour 
may be used in the preparation of puff paste, but if pastry flour is 
used a tablespoonful or 
two more will be re- 
quired. The amount of 
cold water needed varies 
with the absorbing power 
of the flour. However, 
only enough should be 
used to make it possible 
to knead the mass of 
dough that forms so that 
it may become elastic. Kneading develops the gluten in the flour 
and helps to hold in the fat thus making the paste easier to handle. 

Puff Paste 

2 c. flour Cold water 

1 c. butter 




Fig. 20 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 37 

Put the flour into a mixing bowl and chop a tablespoonful of the 
butter into it. Add cold water until a mass that may be removed to 
a baking board is formed. Then proceed in the manner explained 
for the making of puff paste. 

76. Uses of Puff Paste. — Puff paste is seldom used in the 
making of single- or double-crust pies ; instead, it is usually employed 
for daintier desserts commonly known as French pastry. However, 
there are really innumerable uses to which it may be put in addition 
to those for which ordinary pastry can be used. In fact, after the 
art of making this kind of pastry is mastered, it will prove to be 
invaluable for serving on special occasions. 

77. With puff paste may be made tarts of any kind or shape. 
Particularly attractive tarts can be made by covering small tins in 
the manner shown in Fig. 12 and then, after the shapes have been 
baked, filling each one with half of a peach or half of an apricot and 
juice that has boiled thick and piling sweetened whipped cream 
over it. 

Puff paste made into the same shapes as those just mentioned for 
tarts may have placed in it a layer of cake, on top of which may be 
spread a layer of jam; and, to add a dainty touch, either whipped 
cream or chopped nuts may be put over the jam. The cake used for 
such a dessert should preferably be simple butter cake or sponge 
cake, such as might be baked in a loaf. 

Puff paste in the form of tubes and shells may be used for serving 
foods daintily. Thus, a hollow tube may be made by rolling the 
paste very thin, cutting it into rectangular pieces, placing each piece 
over a round stick about IJ inches in diameter, and then baking. 
After the baked tube is slipped off the stick, it may be filled with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream, to which may be added 
chopped nuts, chopped fruit, or jam. Small baked shells of puff 
paste answer very well as timbale cases, which may be filled with 
creamed mushrooms, creamed sweetbreads, or other delicate creamed 
food. If shells are not desired, small triangular or round pieces 
may be cut and baked and creamed food served over them as it 
would be served over toast. 

An attractive dessert may be prepared by baking several rectangu- 
lar pieces of puff paste in the oven and then arranging them in two 
or three layers with custard between. Simple sugar icings into which 



38 PASTRIES AND PIES § 20 

some butter is beaten may also be utilized to advantage in making 
French pastry of this kind. 

Puff paste may also be used as the covering for small individual 
pies. 

SERVING PASTRY 

78. To be most palatable, pastry should be served as soon as 
possible after it is baked. When it is allowed to stand for any 
length of time, the lower crust becomes soaked with moisture from 
the filling used, and in this state the pie is not only unpalatable, but 
to a certain extent indigestible. Consequently, whenever it is possi- 
ble, only enough for one meal should be baked at a time. 

After a pie is taken from the oven, it should not be removed from 
the pan in which it is baked until it is served. In fact, pie with a 
tender crust cannot be handled easily and so should be cut while it 
is still in the pan. Often it is best to serve a pie warm. When this is 
to be done, it can be served immediately upon being taken from the 
oven, or if it has been baked for some time and is cold, it may be set 
in the oven and reheated before serving. Such treatment will 
freshen any pie that has become more or less stale and, as is well 
known, pie is much more palatable when it is warm and fresh than 
when it is cold or stale. In case pies must be kept before being 
served, they should be stored in a place that is both cold and dry. 
A refrigerator is too damp and for this reason should not be used ; 
but any other cool place that is sufficiently dry will be satisfactory. 

79. Several ways of serving pie are in practice. This dessert 
may be baked in attractive dishes especially designed for this pur- 
pose and then served from them at the table, or it may be baked in 
an ordinary pie pan and then placed on a plate larger than the pan 
for serving. Pie of the usual size is generally divided into five or 
six pieces, a sharp knife being used to cut it. If possible, a pie 
knife, which is narrow at the end of the blade and gradually grows 
broader until the handle is reached, where it is very broad, should be 
provided for the serving of this dessert, for it helps very much in 
handling the triangular pieces that are cut from a large pie. The 
plates on which pie is served should be at least as large as salad 
plates. Very often, instead of serving it from the pan at the table, 
it is put on plates in the kitchen and passed at the table. Pie is always 
eaten with a fork, one that is smaller than a dinner fork being used. 



§ 20 PASTRIES AND PIES 39 

80. With most pies containing fruit filling, a small piece of 
cheese, preferably highly flavored cheese, may be served. This 
makes a very good accompaniment so far as flavor is concerned, but 
is omitted in some meals because it may supply too much food value 
or too much protein. However, if the fact that a high-protein food 
is to be served at the end of the meal is taken into account when the 
remainder of the meal is planned, there need be no hesitancy in 
serving cheese with pie. Of course, when cheese is to be included 
in the meal in this way, the portions of the protein foods served 
with the main course should be smaller. 

81. A very attractive as well as appetizing way in which to serve 
pie is known as pie a la mode. This method of serving, which is 
often resorted to when something extra is desired, consists in placing 
a spoonful or two of ice cream of any flavor on each serving of apple 
or other fruit pie. Pie served in this way is high in food value and 
is a general favorite with persons who are fond of both ice cream 
and pie. 



PASTRIES AND PIES 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) What is pastry? (6) What is the principal use of pastry? 

(2) How should the use of pastry with meals be governed? 

(3) What may be said of the flour used for pastry? 

(4) Discuss the shortenings that may be used for pastry. 

(5) Give the proportions of fat and flour that may be used for pastry. 

(6) What may be said of the handling of pastry in its preparation for 
baking ? 

(7) Describe a method of mixing fat and flour for pastry. 

(8) How is the liquid added to the fat and flour for pastry? 

(9) Describe the rolling of pie crust. 

(10) How is a pan covered with paste for pies? 

(11) How may a single crust that is to be baked before it is filled be kept 
from blistering? 

(12) Describe the making of a top crust and the covering of a pie with it. 

(13) What oven temperature is best for baking pastry? Tell why. 

(14) On what does the length of time for baking pastry depend? 

(15) Describe briefly the making of puflf paste. 

(16) What may be done with bits of paste not utilized in making pies? 

(17) If more than sufficient paste for use at one time is mixed, what may 
be done with that which remains ? 

(18) How should pastry be cared for after baking? 

(19) Describe the serving of pastry. 

(20) Why should starchy material used for thickenmg not be cooked with 
acid fruit juice for any length of time if this can be avoided? 

§20 



INDEX 



Note. — In this Volume, each Section is complete in itself and has a number, which, 
together with the section mark (§), is printed at the top of every page of the Section. 
To find a reference, glance along the inside edges of the headlines until you find the 
desired section number and then along the outside edges until you find the 
desired page. Thus, to find the reference, "Combination salad, §16, p26," turn to the 
Section marked §16 and then to page 26 of that Section. 

A Bread pudding, §19, p40 

pudding. Chocolate, §19, p4S 

Bride's cake, §18, p33 

Brioche, §19, p22 
buns, §19, p23 
dessert, §19, p23 
pudding, §19, p23 

Brown Betty, §19, p39 
-sugar boiled icing, §18, p43 

Brownies, §19, p4 

Butter cake, §18, p7 
cake after baking. Care of, §18, p2S 
cake. Baking, §18, p23 
-cake ingredients. Combining the, §18, p21 
cake. Nature of, §18, p20 
-cake pans, §18, pll 
cakes and their preparation, §18, p20 
cakes. Procedure in making, §18, p20 
icing, §18, p39 
icing. Chocolate, §18, p39 

Butterscotch pie, §20, p26 



Almond macaroons, §19, pl8 
Angel cake, §18, pl9 
Apple-and-celery salad, §16, p29 

cakes, §19, p24 

-date-and-orange salad, §16, p33 

pie, §20, pl7 

sauce, §19, p6 

-sauce cakes, §19, pS 

tapioca, §17, pl8 
Apricot mousse, Banana-and-, §17, p49 

sandwiches, §16, p51 

sauce, §19, p35 
Asparagus salad, §16, pl8 



Baked custard, §17, p9 
Baking butter cake, §18, p23 

cookies, §19, pl2 

plain pastry, §20, pll 

puff paste, §20, p6 

small cakes, §19, pi 

sponge cake, §18, pl5 
Banana-and-apricot mousse, §17, p49 

-and-peanut salad, §16, p33 
Barley-molasses cookies, §19, pl4 
Beet-and-bean salad, §16, pl9 
Berry pie, §20, pl9 
Biscuit tortoni, §17, p51 
Biscuits, Definition of, §17, p47 

Molding, §17, p47 
Blanc mange, Chocolate, §17, plS 

mange. Plain, §17, plS 
Boiled icing, §18, p42 

icing. Brown-sugar, §18, p43 

salad dressing, §16, pp6, 16 
Bomebe glace, %17, p54 
Boston cream pie, §19, p46 
Bread-and-butter sandwiches, §16, p47 

-and-cheese sandwiches. Rye-, §16, p52 

ior sandwiches, §16, p43 



C 
Cabbage-and-celery salad, §16, p20 

salad, §16, pl9 
Cafe parfait, §17, pSO 
Cake after baking. Care of butter, §18, p25 

after baking. Care of sponge, §18, pl7 

and pudding mixtures in the diet, §18, pi 

Angel, §18, pl9 

Apple, §19, p24 

Baking butter, §18, p23 

Baking sponge, §18, pl5 

Bride's, §18, p33 

Butter, §18, p7 

Caramel, §18, p31 

Chocolate nut, §18, p26 

Cinnamon, §18, p30 

Cocoa and chocolate in, §18, p6 

Coconut in, §18, p6 

Cold-water sponge, §18, pl7 



INDEX 



Cake, Corn-starch, §18, p30 

Devil's food, §18, p27 

Feather, §18, p29 

fillings, §18, p44 

Flavoring extracts in, §18, p7 

from pan. Removing sponge, §18, pl7 

Fruit, §18, p33 

Gold, §18, p29 

Hot-water sponge, §18, pl7 

Ice-cream, §18, p30 

icings and fillings, §18, p3S 

icings, Preparation of, §18, p38 

ingredients. Combining butter-, §18, p21 

ingredients. Combining sponge-, §18, pl3 

ingredients. Preparation of, §18, p9 

ingredients. Quality of, §18, p3 

Lady Baltimore, §18, p32 

making. Equipment for, §18, p8 

making. Procedure in, §18, p9 

Miscellaneous fruits in, §18, p5 

mixture. Baking the butter-, §18, p23 

mixture, Baking the sponge-, §18, pl5 

Nature of butter, §18, p20 

Nature of sponge, §18, pl3 

Nut layer, §18, p26 

Nut spice, §18, p28 

Nuts in, §18, p6 

One-egg, §18, p25 

Orange sponge, §18, pl8 

pans. Preparation of, §18, pll 

pans. Sponge-, §18, pl2 

Plain layer, §18, p25 

Plain sponge, §18, pl7 

Potato-fiour sponge, §18, pl9 

Pound, §18, p31 

Raisin spice, §18, p27 

Raisins and currants in, §18, p5 

Sour-milk chocolate, §18, p27 

Sponge, §18, p7 

Sunshine, §18, plS 

War, §18, p28 

Wedding, §18, p35 

White, §18, p28 

White fruit, §18, p34 

with potato flour, Sponge, §18, p20 
Cakes, Apple-sauce, §19, pS 

Baking small, §19, pi 

Cinnamon cup, §19, pS 

Cocoa cup, §19, p5 

Coffee, §19, p23 

cookies, and puddings, §18, pi; §19, pi 

Cup, §19, p4 

Cup and drop, §19, p2 

Drop, §19, p3 

Fat for, §18, p3 

Flour for, §18, p4 

Fruit drop, §19, p6 

General classes of, §18, p7 

Ginger drop, §19, p7 

Ingredients used in, §18, p3 



Cakes, Leavening for, §18, p3 

Liquid for, §18, p4 

made with yeast, §19, p22 

Nature of mixture for small, §19, pi 

Oat-flake drop, §19, p6 

Ornamental icing for cup, §19, p7 

Preparation of small, §19, p2 

Procedure in making butter, §18, p20 

Procedure in making sponge, §18, pl2 

Roxbury, §19, p5 

Small, §19, pi 

Sour-milk drop, §19, p6 

Spices in, §18, p6 

Sweetening for, §18, p3 

Varieties of small, §19, pi 
California salad, §16, p33 
Canapes, §16, p58 

Cantaloupe shells. Fruit in, §16, p34 
Canton parfait, §17, p51 
Caramel cake, §18, p31 

custard, §17, plO 

filling for eclairs, §19, p28 

ice cream, §17, p38 

icing, §18, p41 

mousse, §17, p48 

tapioca, §17, pl9 
Carbohydrate in desserts, §17, p3 

in salads, §16, p3 
Care of butter cake after baking, §18, p2S 

of salad greens, §16, p8 

of sandwiches after making, §16, p46 

of sponge cake after baking, §18, pl7 
Cauliflower-and-tomato salad, §16, p21 

salad, §16, p21 
Celery salad, §16, p22 

salad, Apple-and-, §16, p29 

salad, Grapefruit-and-, §16, p20 

sandwiche". Rolled, §16, p49 

Stuffed, §16, p42 
Cellulose in salads, §16, p4 
Checkerboard sandwiches. §16, p48 
Cheese-and-nut sandwiches, §16, p52 

dreams, §16, p56 

filling for sandwiches, §16, pS2 

salad, Green-pepper-and-, §16, p37 

salad, Peach-and-cream-, §16, p36 

salad, Pear-and-, §16, p36 

sandwiches, §16, p52 

sandwiches, Jelly-and-cream-, §16, pS2 

sandwiches, Rye-bread-and-, §16 pS2 

straws, §20, pl5 
Cherry frappe, §17, p44 

pie, §20, pl9 

pie. Mock, §20, p22 

salad, Filbert-and-, §16, p32 
Chicken salad, §16, p41 

-salad filling for sandwiches, §16, pS4 

-salad sandwiches. §16, p54 

sandwiches, §16, p54 
Chocolate and cocoa in cake, §18 n6 



INDEX 



111 



Chocolate blanc mange, §17, pl5 

bread pudding, §19, p4S 

butter icing, £18, p39 

cake, Sour-milk, §18, p27 

filling, §18, p45 

filling for eclairs, §19, p27 

ice cream, §17, p27 

icing, §18, p43 

mousse, §17, p49 

nut cake, §18, p26 

pie, §20, p26 

pudding, §19, p46 

sauce, §17, p6; §19, p33 

water icing, §18, p39 
Christmas pudding, §19, p43 
Cider frappe, §17, p44 
Cinnamon cake, §18, p30 

cup cakes, §19, p5 
Classes of cookies, §19, p9 
Cleaning and freshening salad ingredients, 

§16, p8 
Club sandwiches, §16, p5S 
Cocoa and chocolate in cake, ,§18, p6 

cup cakes, §19, p5 
Coconut-corn-starch custard, §17, pl4 

filling, §18, p45 

in cake, §18, p6 

macaroons, §19, pl9 

pie, §20, p27 

puff, §19, p44 

sauce, §19, p36 
Coffee cakes, §19, p23 

filling, §18, p45 

filling for eclairs, §19, p28 

jelly, §17, p23 
Cold and frozen desserts, §17, pi 

desserts and their preparation, §17, pS 

-water icing, §18, p38 

-water sponge cake, §18, pl7 
Combination fruit-and-vegetable salads, 
§16, p29 

fruit salad, §16, p31 

salad, §16, p26 

salad. Summer, §16, p31 
Combining butter-cake ingredients, §18, p21 

sponge-cake ingredients, §18, pl3 
Composition and food value of desserts, 
§17, p2 

of salads, §16, p3 
Cooked icings, §18, p40 

mayonnaise, ^16, plS 
Cookery rules to desserts. Applying, §17, p4 
Cookies, §19, p9 

and puddings. Cakes, §18, plj §19, pi 

Baking, §19, pl2 

Barley-molasses, §19, pl4 

Classes of, §19, p9 

Cream, §19, pl4 

Filled, §19, pl5 

Filling for, §19, pl6 

W I-C 4—18 



Cookies, Ingredients in, §19, plO 

Oatmeal, §19, pl5 

Procedure in making, §19, plO 

Sour-cream, §19, pl6 
Cooky recipes, §19, pl3 
Corn oil, §16, p6 

-starch cake, §18, p30 

-starch custard, §17, pl3 
Cottage pudding, §19, p4S 
Cottonseed oil, §16, p6 
Crab salad, Lobster or, §16, p40 
Cranberry frappe, §17, p44 

pie, §20, p27 
Cream, Caramel ice, §17, p38 

-cheese salad, Peach-and-, §16, p36 

-cheese sandwiches, Jelly-and-, §16, p52 

Chocolate ice, §17, p37 

cookies, §19, pl4 

Dessert sauces and whipped, §17, p5 

dressing, §16, pl7 

filling for cream puffs, §19, p27 

filling, Fruit, §18, p45 

fluff. Pineapple, §17, p26 

fluff. Strawberry, §17, p2S 

French, §17, pl2 

Mocha ice, §17, p38 

Neapolitan ice, §17, pS3 

Philadelphia ice, §17, p36 

pie, §20, p28 

pie, Boston, §19, p46 

pie. Date, §20, p28 

puffs, §19, p26 

puffs and eclairs, §19, p2S 

puffs. Cream filling for, §19, p27 

Spanish, §17, p24 

Tapioca, §17, pl7 

Vanilla ice, §17, p37 

Whipped, §17, p6 
Crullers, Frying doughnuts and, §19, p29 

Nature of doughnuts and, §19, p28 

Shaping doughnuts and, §19, p29 
Cucumber-and-onion salad. Sliced, §16, p22 

-and-tomato salad, §16, p23 

salad, §16, p23 

sandwiches, §16, p49 
Cup and drop cakes, §19, p2 

cakes, §19, p4 

cakes. Cinnamon, §19, p5 

cakes. Cocoa, §19, p5 

cakes. Ornamental icing for, §19, p7 
Currants and raisins in cake, §18, p5 
Custard, Baked, §17, p9 

Caramel, §17, plO 

Corn-starch, §17, pl3 

desserts, §17, p7 

Farina, §17, pl9 

Frozen, §17, p40 

Minute-tapioca, §17, pl8 

pie, §20, p28 

Plain frozen, §17, p40 



IV 



INDEX 



Custard, Rice, §17, pl6 
sauce, |17, p6; §19, p36 
Soft, §17, pU 
Tapioca, §17, pl8 
Tutti-frutti frozen, §17, p41 
with nuts. Frozen, §17, p40 
with raisins. Frozen, §17, p40 

Custards, True, §17, p7 



Daisy salad, §16, p38 
Date-and-English-walnut salad, §16, p32 

-and-orange salad, Apple-, §16, p33 

cream pie, §20, p28 

sandwiches, §16, pSO 
Dessert in the meal, §17, pi 

ingredients. Economical use of, §17, p4 

making. Principles of, §17, p4 

making. Principles of frozen-, §17, p27 

Packing a frozen, §17, p33 

sauces and whipped cream, §17, p5 
Desserts and their preparation. Cold, §17, 
pS 

Applying cookery rules to, §17, p4 

Attractiveness of, §17, p4 

Carbohydrate in, §17, p3 

Cold and frozen, §17, pi 

Composition and food value of, §17, p2 

Custard, §17, p7 

Fat in, §17, p3 

Frozen, §17, p27 

Gelatine, §17, p20 

General discussion of, §17, pi 

Method of freezing, §17, p31 

Molding frozen, §17, p52 

Principles of making gelatine, §17, p20 

Procedure in freezing, §17, p30 

Proportion of ice to salt in frozen, §17, 
p29 

Protein in, §17, p3 

Recipes for frozen, §17, p36 

Recipes for gelatine, §17, p22 

Serving frozen, §17, p54 
Devil's food cake, §18, p27 
Diet, Cake and pudding mixtures in the, 
§18, pl 

Purposes of salads in the, §16, p2 

Salads in the, §16, pl 
Double-crust pies, §20, pl7 
Doughnuts, §19, p32 

and crullers, Frying, §19, p29 

and crullers. Nature of, §19, p28 

and crullers. Shaping, §19, p29 

Drop, §19, p32 

Potato-and-barley, §19, p32 

Sour-milk, §19, p32 

Yeast, §19, p33 
Dreams, Cheese, §16, p56 
Dressing, Boiled salad, §16, pp6, 16 

Cream, §16, pl7 



Dressing, French, §16, pI3 

Fruit-salad, §16, p3I 

Mayonnaise, §16, pl4 

Sour-cream, §16, pl7 

Thousand Island, §16, pl6 
Dressings and their preparation. Salad, 
§16, pl3 

Nature of salad, §16, p6 
Dried-fruit pies, §20, p23 
Drop cakes, §19, p3 

cakes. Cup and, §19, p2 

cakes. Fruit, §19, p6 

cakes. Ginger, §19, p7 

cakes. Oat-flake, §19, p6 

cakes. Sour-milk, §19, p6 

doughnuts, §19, p32 

K 
Easter salad, §16, p39 
Easy pastry, §20, pl7 
£clairs, §19, p27 

and cream puffs, §19, p25 

Caramel filling for, §19, p28 

Chocolate filling for, §19, p27 

Coffee filling for, §19, p28 

Royal, §19, p27 
Economical use of dessert ingredients, 

§17, p4 
Economy paste, §20, pl6 
Egg sandwiches, Ham-and-, §16, p55 

sandwiches. Hard-cooked-, §16, p53 

sandwiches. Hot fried-, §16, p55 
English-walnut salad, Date-and-, §16, p32 
Equipment for cake making, §18, p8 
Extracts in cake. Flavoring, §18, p7 



Farina custard, §17, pl9 
Fat for cakes, §18, p3 

in desserts, §17, p3 

in salads, §16, p3 
Feather cake, §18, p29 
Fig pudding, Steamed, §19, p43 
Filbert-and-cherry salad, §16, p32 
Filled cookies, §19, pl5 
Filling, Chocolate, §18, p45 

Coconut, §18, p45 

Coffee, §18, p45 

for cookies, §19, pl6 

for cream puffs. Cream, §19, p27 

for eclairs, Caramel, §19, p28 

for eclairs. Chocolate, §19, p27 

for eclairs. Coffee, §19, p28 

for ladyfingers, §19, p22 

for sandwiches. Cheese, §16, p32 

for sandwiches, Chicken-salad. §W, pS* 

for sandwiches, Fruit. §16, p51 

Fruit cream, §18, p4S 

Lemon, §18, p46 

Marshmallow, §18, p46 



INDEX 



Filling, Orange, S18i p46 

Raisin-and-nut, §18, p45 
Fillings and icings, Cake, §18, p35 

Cake, §18, p44 

French, §18, p45 
Flavoring extracts in cake, §18, p7 
Floating island, §17, pl3 
Flour for cakes, §18, p4 

for pastry, §20, p3 
Fluff, Pineapple cream, §17, p26 

Strawberry cream, §17, p25 
Food value of desserts. Composition and, 

§17. P2 
Forks, Salad, §16, pl3 
Frappe, Cherry, §17, p44 

Cider, §17. p44 

Cranberry, §17, p44 
Freezer, Using a vacuum, §17, p34 
Freezing desserts. Method of, §17, p31 

desserts. Procedure in, §17, p30 

Table showing details of, §17, p30 

Theory of, §17, p28 
French cream, §17, pl2 

dressing, §16, pl3 

fillings, §18, p45 

ice cream, §17, p39 
Fresh-fruit pudding, §19, p44 
Freshening salad ingredients. Cleaning 

and, §16, p8 
Fried-egg sandwiches. Hot, §16, p5S 
Frozen custard,' Plain, §17, p40 

custard. Tutti-frutti, §17, p41 

custard with nuts, §17, p40 

custard with raisins, §17, p40 

custards, §17, p40 n 

-dessert making. Principles of, §17, p27 

dessert. Packing a, §17, p33 

desserts, §17, p27 

desserts. Cold and, §17, pi 

desserts. Molding, §17, p52 

desserts. Proportion of ice to salt in, §17, 
p29 

desserts. Recipes for, §17, p36 

desserts. Serving, §17, p54 

spiced punch, §17, p42 
Fruit-and-vegetable salads, Combination 
of, §16, p29 

cake, §18, p33 

cake, W^ite, §18, p34 

cream filling, §18, p4S 

drop cakes, §19, p6 

filling for sandwiches, §16, p51 

gelatine, §17, p23 

ice, §17, p42 

in cantaloupe shells, §16, p34 

salad. Combination, §16, p31 

-salad dressing, §16, p31 

salads, §16. p30 

sandwiches, §16, p50 

sauce, §17, p6; §19, p35 



Fruits in cake. Miscellaneous, §18, p5 
Frying doughnuts and crullers, §19, p29 

G 

Garnishes, Salad, §16, pS 
Gelatine desserts, §17, p20 

desserts. Principles of making, §17, p20 

desserts, Recipes for, §17, p22 

Fruit, §17, p23 

Plain, §17, p22 
Ginger drop cakes, §19, p7 

pudding, Steamed, §19, p41 

snaps, §19, pl4 
Glace, Bomebe, §17, p54 
Gold cake, §18, p29 
Grape sherbet, §17, p46 
Grapefruit-and-celery salad, §16, p30 
Green-pepper-and-cheese salad, §16, p37 

-vegetable salad, §16, p28 



Ham-and-egg sandwiches, §16 p55 
Hard-cooked -egg sandwiches, §16, p53 

sauce, §19, p35 
High-protein salads, §16, p34 

-protein sandwiches, §16, pS2 
Highland dainties, §19, pl5 
Hot fried-egg sandwiches, §16, p55 

-meat sandwiches, %16, p55 

sandwiches, §16, p54 

-water sponge cake, §18, pl7 
Humpty Dumpty salad, §16, p38 



Ice-cream cake, §18, p30 

cream. Caramel, §17, p38 

cream. Chocolate, §17, p37 

cream, French, §17, p39 

cream, Mocha, §17, p38 

cream, Neapolitan, §17, p53 

cream, Philadelphia, §17, p36 

cream. Vanilla, §17, p37 

cream with peaches. Junket, §17, p39 

Fruit, §17, p42 

Lemon, §17, p42 

Orange, §17, p42 
Ices, §17, p41 
Icing, Boiled, §18, p42 

Butter, §18, p39 

Caramel, §18, p41 

Chocolate, §18, p43 

Chocolate butter, §18, p39 

Chocolate water, §18, p39 

Cold-water, §18, p38 

for cup cakes. Ornamental, §19, p7 

Maple, §18, p42 

Orange, §18, p39 

Ornamental, §18, p40 

Plain, §18, p38 

Time-saving, §18. p43 



VI 



INDEX 



Icing, White, §18, p39 

Icings and fillings, Cake, §18, p35 

Cooked, §18, p40 

Kinds of, §18, p38 

Preparation of cake, §18, p38 

Uncooked, §18, p38 
Indian pudding, §19, p39 
Ingredients, Condition of salad, §16, p8 

in cookies, §19, plO 

Marinating salad, §16, plO 

of salads, %i6, p4 

Quality of cake, §18, p3 

used for pastry, §30, p3 

used in cakes, §18, p3 

Variety in salad, §16, p4 



Jelly-and-cream-cheese sandwiches, §16, 
p52 

and marmalade sandwiches, §16, p51 

Coffee, §17, p23 

Orange, §17, p23 

roll, §18, p31 

sauce, §19, p37 
Junket ice cream with peaches, §17, p39 

k: 

Kisses and macaroons, §19, pl6 
or meringues, §19, pl8 



Lady Baltimore cake, §18, p32 
Ladyfingers, §19, p20 

and sponge drops, §19, pl9 

Filling for, §19, p22 
Layer cake, Nut, §18, p26 

-cake pans, §18, pl2 

cake. Plain, §18, p25 
Leavening for cakes, §18, p3 
Left-over pastry. Utilizing, §20, pl3 
Lemon filling, §18, p46 

ice, §17, p42 

pie, §20, p29 

sauce, §19, p34 

snow, §17, p24 
Lettuce sandwiches, §16, p48 

Shredded, §16, p6 
Liquid for cakes, §18, p4 

for pastry, §20, p4 
Loaf-cake pans, §18, pl2 
Lobster or crab salad, §16, p40 

M 

Macaroons, Almond, §19, pl8 

Coconut, §19, pl9 

Oatmeal-fruit, §19, pl9 

Pecan, §19, pl8 
Maize pudding, §19, p40 
Maple icing, §18, p42 

parfait, §17, p50 



Maraschino sauce, §19, p36 
Marguerites, §19, ppl7, 19 
Marinating salad ingredients, §16, plO 
Marmalade sandwiches, Jelly and, §16, p5l 
Marshmallow filling, §18, p46 

whip, §17, p26 
Mayonnaise, Cooked, §16, pl5 

dressing, §16, pl4 
Meal, Dessert in the, §17, pi 
Meals, Relation of salads to, §16, p7 
Meat sandwiches, §16, p54 

sandwiches. Hot-, §16, pS5 
Meringue, §19, pl6 

for one-crust pies, §20, p24 
Meringues or kisses, §19, pl8 
Method of freezing desserts, §17. p31 
Methods of mixing pastry, §20, p7 
Milk sherbet, §17, p45 
Mince pie, §20, p21 

pie, Mock, §20, p22 
Mineral salts and salads, §16, p4 
Mint punch, §17, p43 
Minute tapioca, §17, pl7 

-tapioca custard, |17, pl8 
Miscellaneous fruits in cake, §18, p5 
Mixtures for small cakes. Nature of, §19, pi 
Mocha ice cream, §17, p38 
Mock cherry pie, §20, p22 

mince pie, §20, p22 
Molding frozen desserts, §17, p52 

mousses, parfaits, and biscuits, §17, p47 
Mousse, Banana-and-apricot, §17, p49 

Caramel, §17, p48 

Chocolate, §17, p49 
HMousses, Definition of, §17, p47 

Molding, §17, p47 

parfaits, and biscuits, §17, p47 



Nature of butter cake, §18, p20 

of doughnuts and crullers, §19, p28 

of mixtures for small cakes, §19, pi 

of salad dressings, §16, p6 

of sandwiches, §16, p43 

of sponge cake, §18, pl3 
r^eapolitan ice cream, §17, pS3 
Nut cake. Chocolate, §18, p26 

filling, Raisin-and-, §18, p4S 

layer cake, §18, p26 

salad, Pineapple-and-. §16, p34 

sandwiches, Cheese-and-, §16, p53 

spice cake, §18, p28 
Nuts in cake, §18, p6 



Oat-flake drop cakes, §19, p6 
Oatmeal cookies, §19, pl5 

-fruit macaroons, §19, pl9 
Old-fashioned potato salad, §16, p27 
Olive oil, Characteristics of, §16, p6 



INDEX 



Vll 



One-crust pies, S20, p24 

-egg cake, §18, p2S 
Onion-and-pepper sandwiches, §16, p50 

salad, §16, p24 
Open peach pie, §20, p33 

sandwiches, §16, pS6 
Orange filling, §18, p46 

ice, §17, p42 

icing, §18, p39 

jelly, §17, p23 

pie, §20, p30 

salad, Apple-date-and-, §16, p33 

saUce, §19, p36 

sponge cake, §18, pl8 
Ornamental icing, §18, p40 

icing for cup cakes, §19, p7 



Packing n frozen dessert, §17, p33 
Fans, Layer-cake, §18, pl2 

Loaf-cake, §18, pl2 

Preparation of cake, §18, pll 
Parfait, Cafe, §17, p50 

Canton, §17, p51 

Maple, §17, pSO 

Strawberry angel, §17, pSO 
Parfaits, Definition of, §17, p47 

Molding, §17, p47 
Paste, Baking puff, §20, p36 

Economy, §20, pl6 

Procedure in making puff, §20, p33 

Puff, §20, p33 

Quality, §20, pl6 
Pastries and pies, §20, pi 

and pies, Requirements for, §20, pi 
Pastry, §20, pl5 

Baking plain, §20, pll 

Definition of, §20, pi 

Easy, §20, pl7 

Flour for, §20, p3 

for pies, §20, pS 

ingredients. Proportion of, §20, p4 

Ingredients used for, §20, p3 

Liquid for, §20, p4 

making. Utensils for, §20, p5 

Methods of mixing, §20, p7 

Plain, §20, pl5 

Procedure in making plain, §20, pS 

Serving, §20, p38 

Shortening for, §20, p3 

Sour-cream, §20, pl6 

Utilizing left-over, §20, pl3 
Peach-and-cream-cheese salad, §16, p36 

pie, §20, pl9 

pie, Open, §20, p33 
Peaches, Junket ice cream with, §17, p39 
Peanut-butter sandwiches, §16, p-53 

salad, Banana-and-, §16, p33 
Pear-and-cheese salad, §16, p36 

sherbet, §17, p46 



Pearl tapioca, §17, pl7 
Feas-and-celery salad, §16, p24 
Pecan macaroons, §19, pl8 
Philadelphia ice cream, §17, p36 
Pie a la mode, §20, p39 

Apple, §20, pl7 

Berry, §20, pl9 

Boston cream, §19, p46 

Butterscotch, §20, p26 

Cherry, §20, pl9 

Chocolate, §20, p26 

Coconut, §20, p27 

Cranberry, §20, p27 

Cream, §20, p28 

Custard, §20, p28 

Date cream, §20, p28 

Lemon, §20, p29 

Mince, §20, p21 

Mock cherry, §20, p22 

Mock mince, §20, p22 

Open peach, §20, p33 

Orange, §20, p30 

Peach, §20, pl9 

Pineapple, §20, p30 

Pumpkin, §20, pp30, 31 

Raisin, §20, p23 

Rhubarb, §20, p20 

Squash, §20, p32 

Strawberry, §20, p32 

Sweet-potato, §20, p32 
Pierrot pudding, §19, p41 
Pies and pastries, §20, pi 

and pastries. Requirements for, §20, pi 

Double-crust, §20, pl7 

Dried-fruit, §20, p23 

Meringue for one-crust, §20, p24 

One-crust, §20, p24 

Pastry for, §20, p8 
Pineapple-and-nut salad, §16, p34 

cream fluff, §17, p26 

pie, §20, p30 

sauce, §19, p36 
Plain blanc mange, §17, pl5 

frozen custard, §17, p40 

gelatine, §17, p22 

icing, §18, p38 

layer cake, §18, p2S 

pastry, §20, plS 

pastry. Baking, §20, pll 

pastry. Procedure in making, §20, p8 

sponge cake, §18, pl7 
Pocono pudding, §19, p43 
Foinsettia salad, §16, p35 
Poor man's pudding, §17, pl6 
Potato-and-barley doughnuts, §19, p32 

-flour sponge cake, §18, pl9 

flour. Sponge cake with, §18, p20 

salad, §16, p26 

salad, Old-fashioned, §16, p27 
Found cake, §18, p31 



VIU 



INDEX 



Preparation of batter cake, §18, p20 

of cake icings, §18, p38 

of cake ingredients, §18, p9 

of cake pans, §18, pll 

of sandwiches, §16, p47 

of small cakes, §19, p2 

of sponge cakes, §18, pl2 

Salad dressings and their, §16, pl3 

Varieties of salads and their, §16, pl8 
Preparing fruits for sara<i3, §16, p9 

nuts for salads, §16, plO 
Principles, of dessert making, §17, p4 

of frozen-dessert making, §17, p27 

of making gelatine desserts, §17, p20 

of salad making, §16, p8 

of sandwich making, §16, p43 
Procedure in cake making, §18, p9 

in freezing desserts, §17, p30 

in making butter cakes, §18, p20 

in making cookies, §19, plO 

in making puil paste, §20, p33 

in making sponge cake, §18, pl2 
Proportion of pastry ingredients, §20, p4 
Protein in desserts, §17, p3 

in salads, §16, p3 
Pudding, Bread, §19, p40 

Chocolate, §19, p46 

Chocolate bread, §19, p45 

Christmas, §19, p43 

Cottage, §19, p45 

Fresh-fruit, §19, p44 

Indian, §19, p39 

Maize, §19, p40 

mixtures in the diet, Cake and, §18, pi 

Pierrot, §19, p41 

Pocono, §19, p43 

Poor man's, §17, pl6 

sauces, §19, p34 

Snow, §17, pl4 

Steamed fig, §19, p43 

Steamed ginger, §19, p41 

Suet-fruit, §19, p42 
Puddings and pudding sauces, §19, p33 

Cakes, cookies, and, §18, pi; §19, pi 

Nature of, §19, p33 

Preparation of, §19, p37 
Puff paste, §20, p33 ' 

paste. Baking, §20, p36 

paste. Procedure in making, §20, p33 

paste. Recipe for, §20, p36 

paste. Uses of, §20, p37 

Raisin, §19, p41 
iPumpkin pie, §20, pp30, 31 
Punch, Frozen spice, §17, p42 

Mint, §17, p43 
Purposes of salads in the diet, §16, p2 



Quality of cake ingredients, §18, p3 
paste, §20, pl6 



Raisin-and-nut filling, §18, p4S 

pie, §20, p23 

puff, §19, p41 

spice cake, §18, p27 
Raisins and currants in cake, §18, pS 
Raspberry sherbet, §17, p4S 
Relation of salads to meals, §16, p7 
Removing sponge cake from pans, §18, pl7 
Rhubarb pie, §20, p20 
Ribbon sandwiches, §16, p48 
Rice custard, §17, pl6 
Ring, Swedish tea, §19, p24 
Ripening the frozen mixture, §17, p33 
Roll, Jelly, §18, p31 
Rolled celery sandwiches, §16, p49 
Round sandwiches, §16, p47 
Roxbury cakes, §19, p5 
Royal eclairs, §19, p27 
Rye-bread-and-cheese sandwiches, §16, p52 



Salad accompaniments, §16, p2 
Apple-and-celery, §16, p29 
Asparagus, §16, pl8 
Banana-and-peanut, §16, p33 
Beet-and-bean, §16, pl9 
Cabbage, §16, pl9 
Cabbage and celery, §16, p20 
California, §16, p33 
Cauliflower, §16, p21 
Caulifiower-and-tomato, §16, p21 
Celery, §16, p22 
Chicken, §16. I>41 
Combination, §16, p26 
Combination fruit, §16, p31 
Crab, §16, p40 
Cucumber, §16, p23 
Cucumber-and-tomato, §16, p23 
Daisy, §16, p3S 

Date-and-English-walnut, §16, p32 
dressing. Boiled, §16, pp6, 16 
dressings and their preparation, §16, pl3 
dressings. Nature of, §16, p6 
Easter, §16, p39 
Filbert-and-cherry, §16, p32 
filling for sandwiches. Chicken-, §16, p54 
forks, §16, pl3 
garnishes, §16, p5 
Grapefruit-and-celery, §16, p30 
Green-pepper-and-cheese, §16, p37 
Green-vegetable, §16, p28 
greens. Care of, §16, p8 
Humpty Dumpty, §16, p38 
ingredients. Cleaning and freshening, §16^ 

p8 
ingredients. Condition of, §16, p8 
ingredients. Marinating, §16, plO 
ingredients. Variety in, §16, p4 
Lobster or crab, §16, p40 



INDEX 



IX 



Salad making, Principles of, §16, p8 

Onion, §16, p24 

Peach-and-cream-cheese, §16, p36 

Pear-and-cheese, §16, p36 

Peas-and-celery, §16, p24 

Pineapple-and-nut, §16, p34 

Poinsettia, §16, p3S 

Potato, §16, pp26, 27 

Salmon, §16, p39 

sandwiches. Chicken-, §16, p54 

Shrimp, §16, p41 

Sliced cucumber-and-onion, §16, p22 

String-bean, §16, p28 

StufiEed-tomato, §16, p25 

Summer combination, §16, p31 

Tomato, §16, p24 

Tomato-and-string-bean, §16, p28 

Tuna-fish, §16, p40 

Waldorf, §16, p30 

Water-lily, §16, p39 

Winter, §16, p21 
Salads and sandwiches, §16, pi 

and their preparation, Varieties of, §16, 
pl8 

Carbohydrates in, §16, p3 

Cellulose in, §16, p4 

Definition of, §16, pi 

Fat in, §16, p3 

Fruit, §16, p30 

High-protein, §16, p34 

in the diet, §16, pi 

in the diet. Purposes of, §16, p2 

ingredients, §16, p4 

Mineral salts in, §16, p4 

Preparing nuts for, §16, plO 

Protein in, §16, p3 

Selection of, §16, p2 

Serving, §16, pll 

to meals. Relation of, §16, p7 

Vegetable, §16, pl8 
Salmon salad, §16, p39 
Salts in salads, Mineral, §16, p4 
Sand tarts, §19, pl5 
Sandwich making. Principles of, §16, p43 

making, Utensils for, §16, p44 
Sandwiches, §16, p43 

after making, Care of, §16, p46 

Apricot, §16, pSl 

Bread-and-butter, §16, p47 

Bread for, §16, p43 

Checkerboard, §16, p48 

Cheese, §16, p52 

Cheese-and-nut, §16, pS3 

Cheese filling for, §16, p52 

Chicken, §16, pS4 

Chicken-salad, §16, p54 

Chicken-salad filling for, §16, pS4 

Club, §16, pSS 
Cucumber, §16, p49 
Date, §16, p50 



Sandwiches, Fruit, §16, p50 

Fruit filling for, §16, p51 

Jelly-and-cream-cheese, §16, p52 

Jelly and marmalade, §16, p51 

Ham-and-egg, §16, p55 

Hard-cooked-egg, §16, pS3 

Hot, §16, p54 

Hot fried-egg, §16, pS5 

Hot-meat, §16,.p5S 

Lettuce, §16, p48 

Making, §16, p4S 

Meat, §16, pS4 

Nature of, §16, p43 

Onion-and-pepper, §16, pSO 

Open, §16, pS6 

Peanut-butter, §16, pS3 

Ribbon, §16, p48 

Rolled celery, §16, p49 

Round, §16, p47 

Salads and, §16, pi 

Tomato, §16, p49 

Variety in, §16, p46 
Sauce, Apricot, §19, p35 

Chocolate, §17, p6; §19, p3S 

Coconut, §19, p36 

Custard, §17, p6; §19, p36 

Fruit, §17, p6; §19, p35 

Jelly, §19, p37 

Hard, §19, p3S 

Lemon, §19, p34 

Maraschino, §19, p36 

Orange, §19, p36 

Pineapple, §19, p36 

Sterling, §19, p35 

Vanilla, §19, p35 
Sauces and whipped cream, Dessert, §17, pS 

Pudding, §19, p34 
Selection of salads, §16, p2 
Serving frozen desserts, §17, p54 

pastry, §20, p38 

salads, §16, pll 
Sherbet, Grape, §17, p46 

Milk, §17, p45 

Pear,. §17, p46 

Raspberry, §17, p45 

Strawberry, §17, p46 
Sherbets, §17, p45 
Shortening for pastry, §20, p3 
Shredded lettuce, §16, p6 
Shrimp salad, §16, p41 

Sliced cucumber-and-onion salad, §16, p22 
Small cakes, §19, pi 

pies, §20, pl5 
Snow pudding, §17, pl4 
Soft custard, §17, pll 
Sour-cream cookies, §19, pl6 

-cream dressing, §16, pl7 

-cream pastry, §20, pl6 

-milk chocolate cake, §18, p27 

-railk doughnuts, §19, p32 



INDEX 



Sour-milk drop cakes, $19, p6 
Spanish cream, §17, p24 
Spice cake. Nut, §18, p28 

cake. Raisin, §18, p27 
Spices in cake, §19, p6 
Sponge cake, §18, p7 

cake, Baking, §18, pl5 

cake. Cold-water, §18, pl7 

cake from pans, Removing, §18, pl7 

cake. Hot-water, §18, pl7 

-cake ingredients, Combining the, §18, pl3 

cake. Nature of, §18, pl3 

cake. Orange, §18, pl8 

•cake pans, §18, pI2 

cake. Plain, §18, pl7 

cake. Potato-flour, §18, pl9 

cake, Procedure in making, §18, pl2 

cake with potato flour, §18, p20 

cakes. Preparation of, §18, pl2 

drops. Lady Angers and, §19, pl9 
Squash pie, §20, p32 
Steamed fig pudding, §19, p43 

ginger pudding, |19, p41 
Sterling sauce, §19, p35 
Strawberry angel parfait, §17, p50 

cream fluff, §17, p25 

pie, §20, p32 

sherbet, §17, p46 
Straws, Cheese, §20, pl5 
String-bean salad, § 16, p28 

-bean salad, Tomato-and-, §16, p28 
Stuflfed celery, §16, p42 

-tomato salad, §16, p25 
Suet-fruit pudding, §19, p42 
Summer combination salad, §16, p31 
Sunshine cake, §18, pl8 
Swedish tea ring, §19, p24 
Sweet-potato pie, §20, p32 
Sweetening for cakes, §18, p3 

T 

Table showing details of freezing, §17, p30 
Tapioca, Apple, §17, pl8 

Caramel, §17, pl9 

cream, §17, pl7 

custard, §17, pl8 

Minute, §17, pl7 

Pearl, §17, pl7 
Tarts, §20, pl4 
Tea ring, Swedish, §19, p24 
Theory of freezing, §17, p28 
Thickened juicy fruit for pies, §20, p20 



Thousand Island dressing, §16, pl6 
Time-saving icing, §18, p43 
Tomato-and-string-bean salad, §16, p28 

salad, §16, p24 

salad. Stuffed-, §16, p25 

sandwiches, §16, p49 
Tortoni, Biscuit, §17, pSl 
True custard, §17, p7 
Tuna-fish salad, §16, p40 
Tutti-frutti frozen custard, §17, p41 

V 

Uncooked icings, §18, p38 

Use of dessert ingredients, Economical, 

§17, p4 
Using a vacuum freezer, §17, p34 
Utensils for pastry making, §20, p5 

for sandwich making, §16, p44 
Utilizing left-over pastry, §20, pl3 



Vacuum freezer. Using a, §17, p34 

Value of desserts. Composition and food, 

SI7. p2 
Vanilla cream, §17, p37 

sauce, §19, p35 

wafers, §19, pl4 
Varieties of salads and their preparation. 
§16, pl8 

of small cakes, §19, pi 
Variety in salad ingredients, §16, p4 

in sandwiches, §16, p46 
Vegetable salad. Green-, §16, p28 

salads, §16, pl8 

salads, Combination fruit-and-, §16, 
p29 

sandwiches, §16, p48 

W 

Wafers, Vanilla, §19, pl4 

Waldorf salad, §16, pSO 

War cake, §18, p28 

Water icing. Chocolate, §18, p39 

-lily salad. §16, p39 
Wedding cake, §18, p35 
Whip, Marshmallow, §17, p26 
Whipped cream, §17, p6 

cream. Dessert sauces and, §17, p5 
White cake, §18, p28 

fruit cake, §18, p34 

icing, §18, p39 
Winter salad, §16, p21 



if-'inii^Hi-i'V'-.-iu-? 





ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 
TX 651.W87 
V.3 

Woman's Institute library of cookery 



3 1924 003 570 599 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003570599 



WoMAN'5 Institute 
Library of Cookery 




50UP 

MEAT 
POULTRY AND GAME 
FISH AND 5HELL FISH 



WOMAN'S INSTITUTE 

OF DOMESTIC ARTS AND SCIENCES. Inc 

SCRANTON. PA. 



317759 



Soup: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational 'Publishing Company. 

Meat, Parts 1 and 2: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing 
Company. 

Poultry and Game: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing Com- 
pany. 

Fish and Shell Fish: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing 
Company. 



Copyright in Great Britain 



All rights reserved 



Printed in U. S. A. 



Press of 
International Textbook Company 

SCRANTON, Pa. 96661 

3 



PREFACE 

This volume, which is the third of the Woman's Institute Library 
of Cookery, includes soups and the high-protein foods, meat, poultry, 
game, and fish. It therefore contains information that is of interest 
to every housewife, for these foods occupy an important place in 
the majority of meals. 

In her study of Soup, she will come to a thorough appreciation of 
the place that soup occupies in the meal, its chief purposes, and its 
economic value. All the different kinds of soups are classified and 
discussed, recipes for making them, as well as the stocks used in 
their preparation, receiving the necessary attention. The correct 
serving of soup is not overlooked ; nor are the accompaniments and 
garnishes so often required to make the soup course of the meal an 
attractive one. 

In Meat, Parts 1 and 2, are described the various cuts of the 
different kinds of meat — beef, veal, lamb, mutton, and pork — ^and 
the part of the animal from which they are obtained, the way in 
which to judge a good piece of meat by its appearance, and what 
to do with it from the time it is purchased until all of it is used. 
All the methods applicable to the cooking of meats are emphasized 
in this section. Supplementing the text are numerous illustrations 
showing the ways in which meat cuts are obtained. Besides, many 
of them are so reproduced that actual cuts of meat may be readily 
recognized. Equipped with this knowledge, the housewife need give 
no concern to the selection, care, and cooking of every variety of 
meat. 

In Poultry and Game, the selection and preparation of all kinds of 
poultry receive attention. While such food is somewhat of a luxury 
in a great many homes, it helps to relieve the monotony of the 
usual protein foods, and it often supplies just what is desired for 
special occasions. Familiarity with poultry and game is a decided 
asset to any housewife, and success with their cooking and serving is 



iv PREFACE 

assured through a study of this text, for every step in their prepara- 
tion is clearly explained and illustrated. 

In Fish and Shell Fish, the other high-protein food is treated in 
full as to its composition, food .value, purchase, care, and preparation. 
Such interesting processes as the boning, skinning, and filleting of 
fish are not only carefully explained but clearly illustrated. In addi- 
tion to recipes for fresh, salt, smoked, and canned fish are given 
directions for the preparation of all edible shell fish and recipes for 
the various stuffings and sauces served with fish. 

Too much cannot be said about the importance of the subjects 
covered in this volume and the necessity for a thorough understand- 
ing of them on the part of every housewife. Indeed, a mastery of 
them will mean for her an acquaintance with the main part of the 
meal, and when she knows how to prepare these foods, the other 
dishes will prove a simple matter. 



CONTE.NTS 



Soup Section Page 

Value of Soup 9 1 

Classification of Soups 9 3 

Uses and Varieties of Soup Stock 9 5 

The Stock Pot 9 7 

Principal Ingredients in Soup 9 9 

Processes Involved in Making Stock 9 11 

Serving Soup 9 16 

Recipes for Soup and Soup Accompaniments. ... 9 18 

Stocks and Clear Soups 9 19 

Heavy Thick Soups 9 21 

Cream Soups 9 25 

Purees 9 29 

Chowders 9 30 

Soup Accompaniments and Garnishes 9 31 

Meat 

Value of Meat as Food 10 1 

Structure and Composition of Meat 10 3 

Purchase and Care of Meat 10 8 

Purposes of Cooking Meat 10 11 

Methods of Cooking Meat 10 11 

Time Required for Cooking Meat 10 15 

Beef — General Characteristics 10 17 

Cuts of Beef 10 18 

Steaks and Their Preparation 10 22 

Roasts and Their Preparation 10 31 

Preparation of Stews and Corned Beef 10 38 

Beef Organs and Their Preparation 10 42 

T 



VI 



CONTENTS 



Meat — Continued Section Page 

Making Gravy 10 44 

Trying Out Suet and Other Fats 10 44 

Preparation of Left-Over Beef 10 45 

Veal 11 1 

Cuts of Veal and Their Uses 11 2 

Veal Cuts and Their Preparation 11 4 

Veal Organs and Their Preparation 11 9 

Preparation of Left-Over Veal 11 10 

Mutton and Lamb — Comparison 11 12 

Cuts of Mutton and Lamb 11 IS 

Preparation of Roasts, Chops, and Stews 11 17 

Preparation of Left-Over Lamb and Mutton. ... 11 21 

Pork 11 23 

Cuts of Pork 11 24 

Fresh Pork and Its Preparation 11 29 

Cured Pork and Its Preparation 11 32 

Preparation of Left-Over Pork 11 37 

Serving and Carving of Meat 11 38 

Sausages and Meat Preparations 11 39 

Principles of Deep-Fat Frying 11 40 

Application of Deep-Fat Frying 11 41 

Timbale Cases 11 44 

Poultry and Game 

Poultry as a Food 12 1 

Selection of Poultry 12 3 

Selection of Chicken 12 6 

Selection of Poultry Other Than Chicken 12 9 

Composition of Poultry 12 12 

Preparation of Chicken for Cooking 12 13 

Preparation of Poultry Other Than Chicken for 

Cooking 12 23 

Cooking of Poultry 12 24 

Stuffing for Roast Poultry 12 33 

Boned Chicken 12 35 

Dishes from Left-Over Poultry 12 46 

Serving and Carving of Poultry 12 49 

Game 12 52 

Recipes for Game 12 53 



CONTENTS vii 

Fish and Shell Fish Section Page 

Fish in the Diet 13 1 

Composition and Food Value of Fish 13 3 

Purchase and Care of Fish 13 7 

Cleaning Fish 13 11 

Boning Fish 13 14 

Skinning Fish 13 14 

Filleting Fish 13 15 

Methods of Cooking Fish 13 17 

Recipes for Fish Sauces and Stuffings 13 18 

Recipes for Fresh Fish 13 21 

Recipes for Salt and Smoked Fish 13 31 

Recipes for Canned Fish 13 33 

Recipes for Left-Over Fish 13 35 

Shell Fish — Nature, Varieties, and Use 13 36 

Oysters and Their Preparation 13 39 

Clams and Their Preparation 13 47 

Scallops and Their Preparation 13 49 

Lobsters and Their Preparation 13 51 

Crabs and Their Preparation 13 56 

Shrimp and Their Preparation 13 58 



SOUP 

SOUP AND ITS PLACE IN THE MEAL 



VALUE OF SOUP 

1. Soup is a liquid food that is prepared by boiling meat or 
vegetables, or both, in water and then seasoning and sometimes 
thickening the liquid that is produced. It is usually served as the 
first course of a dinner, but it is often included in a light meal, such 
as luncheon. While some persons regard the making of soup as 
difficult, nothing is easier when one knows just what is required and 
how to proceed. The purpose of this Section, therefore, is to 
acquaint the housewife with the details of soup making, so that she 
may provide her family with appetizing and nutritious soups that 
make for both economy and healthfulness. 

2. It is interesting to note the advancement that has been made 
with this food. The origin of soup, like that of many foods, dates 
back to practically the beginning of history. However, the first soup 
known was probably not made with meat. For instance, the mess of 
pottage for which Esau sold his birthright was soup made of red 
lentils. Later on meat came to be used as the basis for soup 
because of the agreeable and appetizing flavor it provides. Then, 
at one time in France a scarcity of butter and other fats that had 
been used to produce moistness and richness in foods, brought 
about such clear soups as bouillon and consomme. These, as well as 
other liquid foods, found much favor, for about the time they wtre 
devised it came to be considered vulgar to chew food. Thus, at 
Various periods, and because of different emergencies, particular 
kinds of soup have been introduced, until now there are many kinds 
from which the housewife may choose when she desires a dish that 

COPYRIGHTEn B^ INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHINO COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVXO 

wi— cj-a 



2 SOUP I 9 

will start a meal in the right way and at the same time appeal to 
the appetite. 

3. Value of Soup In the Meal. — Not all persons have the 
same idea regarding the value of soup as a part of a meal. Some 
consider it to be of no more value than so much water, claiming 
that it should be fed to none but children or sick persons who are 
unable to take solid food. On the other hand, many persons believe 
that soup contains the very essence of all that is nourishing and 
sustaining in the foods of which it is made. This difference of 
opinion is well demonstrated by the ideas that have been advanced 
concerning this food. Some one has said that soup is to a meal what 
a portico is to a palace or an overture to an opera, while another 
person, who evidently does not appreciate this food, has said that 
soup is the preface to a dinner and that any work really worth while 
is sufficient in itself and needs no preface. Such opinions, however, 
must be reconciled if the true value of this food is to be appreciated. 

4. Probably the best way in which to come to a definite con- 
clusion as to the importance of soup is to consider the purposes it 
serves in a meal. When its variety and the ingredients of which it 
is composed are thought of, soup serves two purposes : first, as an 
appetizer taken at the beginning of a meal to stimulate the appetite 
and aid in the flow of digestive juices in the stomach; and, secondly, 
as an actual part of the meal, when it must contain sufficient nutritive 
material to permit it to be considered as a part of the meal instead of 
merely an addition. Even in its first and minor purpose, the impor- 
tant part that soup plays in many meals is not hard to realize, for 
it is just what is needed to arouse the flagging appetite and create 
a desire for nourishing food. But in its second purpose, the real 
value of soup is evident. Whenever soup contains enough nutritive 
material for it to take the place of some dish that would otherwise 
be necessary, its value cannot be overestimated. 

If soup is thought of in this way, the prejudice that exists against 
it in many households will be entirely overcome. But since much 
of this prejudice is due to the fact that the soup served is often 
unappetizing in both flavor and appearance, sufficient attention 
should be given to the making of soup to have this food attractive 
enough to appeal to the appetite rather than discourage it. Soup 
should not be greasy nor insipid in flavor, neither should it be served 
in large quantities nor without the proper accompaniment. A small 



§ 9 SOUP 3 

quantity of well-flavored, attractively served soup cannot fail to 
meet the approval of any family when it is served as the first course 
of the meal. 

5. General Classes of Soup. — Soups are named in various 
ways, according to material, quality, etc. ; but the two purposes for 
which soup is used have led to the placing of the numerous kinds 
into two general classes. In the first class are grouped those which 
serve as appetizers, such as bouillon, consomme, and some other 
broths and clear soups. In the second class are included those eaten 
for their nutritive effect, such as cream soups, purees, and bisques. 
From these two classes of soup, the one that will correspond with 
the rest of the meal and make it balance properly is the one to 
choose. For instance, a light soup that is merely an appetizer should 
be served with a heavy dinner, whereas a heavy, highly nutritious 
soup should be used with a luncheon or a light meal. 

6. Econonalc Value of Soup. — Besides having an important 
place in the meal of which it forms a part, soup is very often an 
economy, for it affords the housewife a splendid opportunity to 
utilize many left-overs. With the French people, who excel in the 
art of soup making chiefly because of their clever adaptation of 
seasoning to foods, their pot-au-feu is a national institution and 
every kitchen has its stock pot. Persons who believe in the strictest 
food economy use a stock pot, since it permits left-overs to be 
utilized in an attractive and palatable way. In fact, there is scarcely 
anything in the way of fish, meat, fowl, vegetables, and cereals that 
cannot be used in soup making, provided such ingredients are cared 
for in the proper way. Very often the first glance at the large 
number of ingredients listed in a soup recipe creates the impression 
that soup must be a very complicated thing. Such, however, is not 
the case. In reality, most of the soup ingredients are small quan- 
tities of things used for flavoring, and it is by the proper blending of 
these that appetizing soups are secured. 



CLASSIFICATION OF SOUPS 

7. The two general classes of soup already mentioned permit 
of numerous methods of classification. For instance, soups are 
sometimes named from the principal ingredient or an imitation of 
it, as the names potato soup, beef soup, macaroni soup, mock-turtle 
soup testify. Again, both stimulating and nutritious soups may be 



4 SOUP § 9 

divided into thin and thick soups, thin soups usually being clear, 
and thick soups, because of their nature, cloudy. When the quality 
of soups is considered, they are placed in still different classes and 
are called broth, bisque, consomme, puree, and so on. Another 
important classification of soups results from the nationality of the 
people who use them. While soups are classified in other ways, it 
will be sufficient for all practical purposes if the housewife under- 
stands these three principal classes. 

8. Classes Denoting: Consistency. — As has already been 
pointed out, soups are of only two kinds when their consistency 
is thought of, namely, clear soups and thick soups. 

Clear soups are those made from carefully cleared stock, or 
soup foundation, and flavored or garnished with a material from 
which the soup usually takes its name. There are not many soups 
of this kind, bouillon and consomme being the two leading varieties, 
but in order to be palatable, they require considerable care in making. 

Tliick soups are also made from stock, but milk, cream, water, 
or any mixture of these may also be used as a basis, and to it may be 
added for thickening meat, fish, vegetables, eggs, or grain or some 
other starchy material. Soups of this kind are often made too 
thick, and as such soups are not appetizing, care must be taken to 
have them just right in consistency. 

9. Classes Denoting' Quality. — ^When attention is given to 
the quality of soup, this food divides itself into several varieties, 
namely, broth, cream soup, bisque, chowder, and puree. 

Broths have for their foundation a clear stock. They are some- 
times a thin soup, but other times they are made quite thick with 
vegetables, rice, barley, or other material, when they are served as a 
substantial part of a meal. 

Cream soups are highly nutritious and are of great variety. 
They have for their foundation a thin cream sauce, but to this are 
always added vegetables, meat, fish, or grains. 

Bisques are thick, rich soups made from game, fish, or shell fish, 
particularly crabs, shrimp, etc. Occasionally, vegetables are used 
in soup of this kind. 

Chowders are soups that have sea food for their basis. Vege- 
tables ana. crackers are generally added for thickening and to 
impart flavor. 



§ 9 SOUP 5 

Purees are soups made thick partly or entirely by the addition 
of some material obtained by boiling an article of food and then 
straining it to form a pulp. When vegetables containing starch, 
such as beans, peas, lentils, and potatoes, are used for this purpose, 
it is unnecessary to thicken the soup with any additional starch ; but 
when meat, fish, or watery vegetables are used, other thickening is 
required. To be right, a puree should be nearly as smooth as thick 
cream and of the same consistency. 

10. Classes Typical of Particular Countries. — Certain 
kinds of soup have been made so universally by the people of various 
countries that they have come to be regarded as national dishes and 
are always thought of as typical of the particular people by whom 
they are used. Among the best known of these soups are Borsch, 
a soup much used by the Russian people and made from beets, leeks, 
and sour cream ; Daikan, a Japanese soup in which radishes are the 
principal ingredient; Kouskous, a soup favored by the people of 
Abyssinia and made from vegetables; Krishara, a rice soup that 
finds much favor in India; Lebaba, an Egyptian soup whose chief 
ingredients are honey, butter, and raisin water ; Minestra, an Italian 
soup in which vegetables are combined ; Mulligatawny, an Indian rice 
soup that is flavored with curry ; Potroka, another kind of Russian 
soup, having giblets for its foundation ; Soljinka, an entirely different 
variety of Russian soup, being made from fish and onions; and 
Tarhonya, a Hungarian soup containing noodles. 



STOCK FOR SOUP 



USES AND VARIETIES OF STOCK 

11. Meaning and Use of Stock. — In order that soup-making 
processes may be readily grasped by the housewife, she should be 
thoroughly familiar with what is meant by stock, which forms the 
foundation of many soups. In looking into the derivation of this 
term, it will be found that the word stock comes from an Anglo- 
Saxon word meaning to stick, and that while it has many different 
uses, the idea of fixedness is expressed in every one of them. As is 
generally known, a stock of anything means a reserve supply of that 
thing stored away for future use. When applied to soup, stock is 



6 SOUP § 9 

similar in meaning, for it refers to material stored or prepared in 
such a way that it may be kept for use in the making of certain 
kinds of soup. In a more definite sense, soup stock may be regarded 
as a liquid containing the juices and soluble parts of meat, bone, and 
vegetables, which have been extracted by long, slow cooking and 
which can be utilized in the making of soups, sauces, and gravies. 

12. Soups in which stock is utilized include all the varieties 
made from beef, veal, mutton, and poultry. If clear stock is desired 
for the making of soup, only fresh meat and bones should be used 
and all material that will discolor the liquid in any way carefully 
avoided. For ordinary, unclarified soups, the trimmings and bones 
of roast, steak, or chops and the carcass of fowl can generally be 
utilized. However, very strongly flavored meat, such as mutton, 
or the fat from mutton should be used sparingly, if at all, on account 
of the strong flavor that it imparts. 

13. Varieties of Stock. — Several kinds of stock are utilized 
in the making of soup, and the kind to employ depends on the soup 
desired. In determining the kind of stock required for the founda- 
tion of a soup, the housewife may be guided by the following classi- 
fication : 

First stock is made from meat and bones and then clarified and 
used for well-flavored, clear soups. 

Second stock is made from the meat and the bones that remain 
after the first stock is strained off. More water is added to the 
remaining material, and this is then cooked with vegetables, which 
supply the needed flavor. Such stock serves very well for adding 
flavor to a nutritious soup made from vegetables or cereal foods. 

Houseliold. stock is made by cooking meat and bones, either 
fresh or cooked, with vegetables or other material that will impart 
flavor and add nutritive value. Stock of this kind is used for ordi- 
nary soups. 

Bone stock is made from meat bones to which vegetables are 
added for flavor, and it is used for making any of the ordinary 
soups. 

Vegetable stock is made from either dried or fresh vegetables 
or both. Such stock is employed in making vegetable soups. 

Game stock is made from the bones and trimmings of game to 
which vegetables are added for flavor. This kind of stock is used 
for making game soups. 



§ 9 SOUP 7 

Fish, stock is made from fish or fish trimmings to which vege- 
tables are added for flavor. Shell fish make especially good stock 
of this kind. Fish stock is employed for making chowders and 
fish soups. 

14. Additional Uses of Stock. — As has already been shown, 
stock is used principally as a foundation for certain varieties of 
soup. This material, however, may be utilized in many other ways, 
being especially valuable in the use of left-over foods. Any bits of 
meat or fowl that are left over can be made into an appetizing dish 
by adding thickened stock to them and serving the combination over 
toast or rice. In fact, a large variety of made dishes can be devised 
if there is stock on hand to add for flavor. The convenience of a 
supply of stock will be apparent when it is realized that gravy or 
sauce for almost any purpose can be made from the contents of the 
stock pot. 

15. Soup Extracts. — If a housewife does not have sufficient 
time to go through the various processes involved in making soup, 
her family need not be deprived of this article of diet, for there are 
a number of concentrated meat and vegetable extracts on the market 
for making soups quickly. The meat extracts are made of the same 
flavoring material as that which is drawn from meat in the making 
of stock. Almost all the liquid is evaporated and the result is a 
thick, dark substance that must be diluted greatly with water to 
obtain the basis for a soup or a broth. Some of the vegetable', 
extracts, such as Japanese soy and English marmite, are so similar 
in appearance and taste to the meat extracts as to make it quite 
difficult to detect any difference. Both varieties of these extracts 
may be used for sauces and gravies, as well as for soups, but it 
should be remembered that they are not highly nutritious and are 
valuable merely for flavoring. 



THE STOCK POT 

16. Nature, Use, and Care of Stock Pot. — Among the 
utensils used for cooking there is probably none more convenient 
and useful than the stock pot. It is nothing more or less than a 
covered crock or pot like that shown in Fig. 1, into which materials 
that will make a well-flavored stock are put from time to time. From 
such a supply, stock can be drawn when it is needed for soup ; then, 



8 



SOUP 



§9 



when some is taken out, more water and materials may be added to 
replenish the pot. The stock pot should be made of either enamel 
or earthenware, since a metal pot of any kind is liable to impart 
flavor to the food. Likewise, its lid, or cover, should be tight-fitting, 
for then it will be an excellent utensil in which the materials may 
be stored until they are to be heated, when they can be poured or 
dipped into a saucepan or a kettle. 

The stock pot, like any other utensil used for making soup, should 
receive considerable care, as it must be kept scrupulously clean. No 
stock pot should ever be allowed to stand from day to day without 
being emptied, thoroughly washed, and then exposed to the air for 
a while to dry. 

17. Food Suitable for the Stock Pot. — Some one has said 
that nothing edible is out of place in the stock pot, and, to a great 
extent, this statement is true. Here should 
be put the bones from the cooked roast, as 
well as the trimmings cut from it before it 
went into the oven; the tough ends and 
bones of beefsteak ; the trimmings or bones 
sent home by the butcher ; the carcasses of 
fowls, together with any remains of stuflF- 
ing and tough or left-over bits of meat ; any 
left-over vegetables ; the remains of the 
gravy or any unsweetened sauces used for 
meats or vegetables ; the spoonful of left- 
over hash, stew, or stuffing; a left-over stuffed tomato or pepper; 
and the water in which rice, macaroni, or certain vegetables have 
been cooked. Of course, plain water can be used for the liquid, 
but the water in which such vegetables as cauliflower, carrots, 
beans, peas, asparagus, celery, and potatoes have been cooked is 
especially desirable, for, besides imparting flavor to the soup, it adds 
valuable mineral salts. However, when such things as left-over 
cereals, rice, macaroni, and green vegetables are to be utilized in 
soup, they should not be put in the stock pot; rather, they should 
be added to the stock after it is removed from the pot. 




Fig. 1 



§ 9 SOUP 



MAKING OF SOUP 



PRINCIPAL, INGREDIENTS 

18. The making of the stock that is used in soup is the most 
important of the soup-making processes ; in fact, these two things — 
soup and stock — may be regarded, in many instances, as one and the 
same. The housewife will do well, therefore, to keep in mind that 
whenever reference is made to the making of soup usually stock 
making is also involved and meant. Before the actual soup-making 
processes are taken up, however, the nature of the ingredients 
required should be well understood; for this reason, suitable meats 
and vegetables, which are the principal ingredients in soups, are first 
discussed. 

19. Meat Used for Soup Making. — ^With the exception of 
pork, almost every kind of meat, including beef, veal, mutton, lamb, 
game, and poultry, is used for soup making. Occasionally, ham is 
employed, but most other forms of pork are seldom used to any 
extent. When soup stock is made from these meats, they may be 
cooked separately, or, as a combination is often an improvement 
over a single variety, several kinds may be combined. For instance, 
mutton used alone makes a very strongly flavored soup, so that it is 
usually advisable to combine this kind of meat with another meat 
that has a less distinctive flavor. On the other hand, veal alone does 
not have sufficient flavor, so it must be combined with lamb, game, 
fowl, or some other well-flavored meat. 

20. Certain cuts of meats are preferred to others in the making 
of soups, because of the difference in their texture. The tender cuts, 
which are the expensive ones, should not be used for soups, as they 
do not produce enough flavor. The tough cuts, which come from 
the muscles that the animal uses constantly and that therefore grow 
hard and tough, are usually cheaper, but they are more suitable, 
because they contain the material that makes the best soup. The 
pieces best adapted to soup making are the shins, the shanks, the 
lower part of the round, the neck, the flank, the shoulder, the tail, 
and the brisket. The parts of the animal from which these cuts are 
taken are clearly shown in Fig. 2. Although beef is obtained from 
the animal shown, the same cuts come from practically the same 



10 



SOUP 



§9 



places In other animals. Stock made from one of these cuts will 
be improved if a small amount of the fat of the meat is cooked 
with it; but to avoid soup that is too greasy, any excess fat that 
remains after cooking should be carefully removed. The marrow 
of the shin bone is the best fat for soup making. 

If soup is to be made from fish, a white variety should be selected. 
The head and trimmings may be utilized, but these alone are not 
sufficient, because soup requires some solid pieces of meat. The 
same is true of meat bones; they are valuable only when they are 
used with meat, an equal proportion of bone and meat being required 
for the best stock. 



21. Vegetables Used for Soup Making. — In soup making, 
the housewife has also a large number of vegetables from which 




Fig. 2 



to select, for any vegetable that has a decided flavor may be used. 
Among those from which soups can be made successfully are cab- 
bage, cauliflower, asparagus, corn, onions, turnips, carrots, parsnips, 
tomatoes, beans, peas, lentils, salsify, potatoes, spinach, celery, mush- 
rooms, okra, and even sweet potatoes. These vegetables are used 
for two purposes : to provide flavoring and to form part of the soup 
itself as well as to furnish flavor. When they are used simply for 
flavoring, they are cooked until their flavor is obtained and then 
removed from the stock. When they are to form part of the soup, 
as well as to impart flavor, they are left in the soup in small pieces 
or made into a puree and eaten with the soup. 



§ 9 SOUP 11 

Attention, too^ must be given to the condition of the vegetables 
that are used in soup. The fresh vegetables that are used should 
be in perfect condition. They should have no decayed places that 
might taint or discolor the soups, and they should be as crisp and 
solid as possible. If they are somewhat withered or faded, they can 
be freshened by allowing them to stand in cold water for a short 
time. When dried vegetables are to be used for soup making, they 
should first be soaked well in cold water and then, before being 
added to the stock, either partly cooked or entirely cooked and made 
into a puree. 

PROCESSES INVOIiVED IJT MAKING STOCK 

22. Although the making of stock or soup is a simple process, it 
must necessarily be a rather long one. The reason for this is that all 
flavor cannot be drawn from the soup materials unless they are 
subjected to long, slow cooking at a temperature lower than the 
boiling point. With this point definitely understood, the actual work 
of soup making may be taken up. 

23. Cooking- Meat for Soup. — ^When clear stock is to be 
made from fresh meat, the required quantity of meat should be cut 
into small pieces rather than large ones, so as to expose as much of 
the surface as possible from which the flavor of the meat can be 
drawn. A little more flavor is obtained and a brown color developed 
if a small part, perhaps a fourth, of the pieces of meat are first 
browned in the frying pan. The pieces thus browned, together with 
the pieces of fresh meat, are put into a kettle and a quart of cold 
water for each pound of meat is then added. 

The reason for using cold rather than hot water will be evident 
when the action of water on raw meat is understood. The fiber of 
meat is composed of innumerable thread-like tubes containing the 
flavor that is to be drawn out into the water in order to make the 
stock appetizing. When the meat is cut, these tiny tubes are laid 
open. Putting the meat thus prepared into cold water and allowing 
it to heat gradually tend to extract the contents of the tubes. This 
material is known as extractives, and jt contains in its composition 
stimulating substances. On the other hand, plunging the meat into 
hot water and subjecting it quickly to a high temperature will coag- 
ulate the protein in the tissue and prevent the extractives from 
leaving the tubes. 



12 SOUP § 9 

24. To obtain the most flavor from meat that is properly pre- 
pared, it should be put over a slow fire and allowed to come gradu- 
ally to the boiling point. As the water approaches the boiling point, 
a scum consisting of coagulated albumin, blood, and foreign mate- 
rial will begin to rise to the top, but this should be skimmed off at 
once and the process of slcimming continued until no scum remains. 
When the water begins to boil rapidly, either the fire should be 
lowered or the kettle should be removed to a cooler part of the 
stove so that the water will bubble only enough for a very slight 
motion to be observed. Throughout the cooking, the meat should 
not be allowed to boil violently nor to cease bubbling entirely. 

The meat should be allowed to cook for at least 4 hours, but 
longer if possible. If, during this long cooking, too much water 
evaporates, more should be added to dilute the stock. The salt that 
is required for seasoning may be added just a few minutes before 
the stock is removed from the kettle. However, it is better to add 
the salt, together with the other seasonings, after the stock has been 
drawn off, for salt, like heat, has a tendency to harden the tissues 
of meat and to prevent the flavor from being readily extracted. 

25. Although, as has been explained, flavor is drawn from the 
fibers of meat by boiling it slowly for a long time, the cooking of 
meat for soup does not extract the nourishment from it to any 
extent. In reality, the meat itself largely retains its original nutri- 
tive value after it has been cooked for soup, although a small 
quantity of protein is drawn out and much of the fat is removed. 
This meat should never be wasted; rather, it should be used care- 
fully with materials that will take the place of the flavor that has 
been cooked from it. 

26. Flavoring Stoclt. — It is the flavoring of stock that indi- 
cates real skill in soup making, so this is an extremely important 
part of the work. In fact, the large number of ingredients found 
in soup recipes are, as a rule, the various flavorings, which give the 
distinctive flavor and individuality to a soup. However, the house- 
wife whose larder will not produce all of the many things that may 
be called for in a recipe should not feel that she must forego making 
a particular kind of soup. Very often certain spices or certain 
flavoring materials may be omitted without any appreciable differ- 
ence, or something that is on hand may be substituted for an ingre- 
dient that is lacking. 



§ 9 SOUP 13 

27. The flavorings used most for soup include cloves, pepper- 
corns, red, black, and white pepper, paprika, bay leaf, sage, mar- 
joram, thyme, summer savory, tarragon, celery seed, fennel, mint, 
and rosemary. While all of these are not absolutely necessary, the 
majority of them may well be kept on the pantry shelf. In addition, 
a bottle of Worcestershire sauce should be kept on hand. Celery 
and parsley, which are also much used for flavoring, can usually be 
purchased fresh, but as they are scarce at times it is advisable to 
dry some of the leaves during the season when they can be secured, 
so as to have a supply when they are not in the market. A small 
amount of lemon peel often improves soup, so some of this should 
be kept in store. Another group of vegetables that lend themselves 
admirably to soup flavoring includes leeks, shallots, chives, garlic, 
and onions, all of which belong to the same family. They must be 
used judiciously, however, as a strong flavor of any of them is 
offensive to most persons. 

28. As many of the flavorings used for soup lose their strength 
when they are exposed to the air, every effort should be made to keep 
them in good condition. Many of them can be kept an indefinite 
length of time if they are placed in tightly closed metal boxes or 
glass jars. Flavorings and spices bought from the grocer or the 
druggist in paper packages should be transferred to, and enclosed 
in, a receptacle that will not allow them to deteriorate. If proper 
attention is given to these materials, the supply will not have to be 
replenished often; likewise, the cost of a sufficient number to pro- 
duce the proper flavorings will be very slight. 

29. In the use of any of the flavorings mentioned or the strongly 
flavored vegetables, care should be taken not to allow any one 
particular flavor to predominate. Each should be used in such 
quantity that it will blend well with the others. A very good way 
in which to fix spices and herbs that are to flavor soup is to tie them 
in a small piece of cheesecloth and drop the bag thus made into the 
soup pot. When prepared in this way, they will remain together, 
so that, while the flavor can be cooked out, they can be more readily 
removed from the liquid than if they are allowed to spread through 
the contents of the pot. Salt, which is, of course, always used to 
season soup, should be added in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful to 
each quart of liquid 



14 SOUP § 9 

30. Removing Grease From Soup. — A greasy soup is 
always unpalatable. Therefore, a very important feature of soup 
making, whether a thin or a thick soup is being made, is the removal 
of all grease. Various ways of removing grease have been devised, 
depending on whether the soup is hot or cold. In the case of hot or 
warm soup, all the grease that it is possible to remove with a spoon 
may be skimmed from the top, and the remainder then taken up with 
a piece of clean blotting paper, tissue-paper, or absorbent cotton. 
Another plan, by which the fat may be hardened and then collected, 
consists in tying a few small pieces of ice in a piece of cloth and 
drawing them over the surface of the soup. A very simple method 
is to allow the soup or stock to become cold, and then remove the 
fat, which collects on the top and hardens, by merely lifting off the 
cake that forms. 

31. Clearing Soupj — Sometimes it is desired to improve the 
appearance of soup stock, particularly a small amount of soup that is 
to be served at a very dainty luncheon or dinner. In order to do this, 
the stock may be treated by a certain process that will cause it to 
become clear. After being cleared, it may be served as a thin soup 
or, if it is heavy enough, it may be made into a clear, sparkling 
jelly into which many desirable things may be molded for salad or 
for a dish to accompany a heavy course. Clearing soup is rather 
extravagant; however, while it does not improve the taste, it does 
improve the appearance. 

A very satisfactory way in which to clear stock is to use egg 
whites and crushed egg shell. To each quart of cold stock should be 
added the crushed shell and a slightly beaten egg white. These 
should be mixed well, placed on the fire, and the mixture stirred 
constantly until it boils. As the egg coagulates, some of the float- 
ing particles in the stock are caught and carried to the top, while 
others are carried to the bottom by the particles of shell as they 
settle. After the mixture has boiled for 5 or 10 minutes, the top 
should be skimmed carefully and the stock then strained through 
a fine cloth. When it has been reheated, the cleared stock will be 
ready to serve. 

32. Thickening Soup. — ^Although thin, clear soups are pre- 
ferred by some and are particularly desirable for their stimulating 
effect, thick soups find much favor when they are used to form a 
substantial part of a meal. Besides giving consistency to soup, 



§ 9 SOUP 15 

thickening usually improves the flavor, but its chief purpose is to 
give nutritive value to this food. In fact, whenever a soup is thick- 
ened, its food value is increased by the ingredient thus added. For 
this reason, it is advisable to thicken soups when they are desired 
for any other purpose than their stimulating effect. 

33. The substance used to thicken soups may be either a starchy 
material or food or a puree of some food. The starchy materials 
generally used for this purpose are plain flour, browned flour, corn 
starch, and arrowroot flour. Any one of these should be moistened 
with enough cold water to make a mixture that will pour easily, and 
then added to the hot liquid while the soup is stirred constantly to 
prevent the formation of lumps. A sufficient amount of this thick- 
ening material should be used to make a soup of the consistency of 
heavy cream. 

The starchy foods that are used for thickening include rice, bar- 
ley, oatmeal, noodles, tapioca, sago, and macaroni. Many unusual 
and fancy forms of macaroni can be secured, or the plain varieties 
of Italian pastes may be broken into small pieces and cooked with 
the soup. When any of these foods are used, they should be added 
long enough before the soup is removed to be cooked thoroughly. 

Purees of beans, peas, lentils, potatoes, and other vegetables are 
especially desirable for the thickening of soups, for they not only 
give consistency, but add nutritive value and flavor as well. Another 
excellent thickening may be obtained by beating raw eggs and then 
adding them carefully to the soup just before it is to be served. 
After eggs have been added for thickening, the soup should not be 
allowed to boil, as it is liable to curdle. 

34. Keeping Stock.' — Soup stock, like many other foods, 
spoils quite readily. Therefore, in order to keep it for at least a 
few days, it must receive proper attention. At e^ll times, the vessel 
containing stock should be tightly closed and, especially in warm 
weather, the stock should be kept as cold as possible. Stock that is 
heavy enough to solidify into a jellylike consistency when it is cold 
will keep better than stock that remains liquid. The addition of 
salt or any spicy flavoring also helps to keep stock from deteriorat- 
ing, because these materials act as preservatives and prevent the 
action of bacteria that cause spoiling. Bacteria may be kept from 
entering soup if, instead of removing the grease, it is allowed to 



16 SOUP § 9 

form in a solid cake over the top. No matter which of these pre- 
cautions is taken to prevent stock from spoiling, it should be heated 
to boiling point once a day when it is to be kept for several days. 



SERVING SOUP 

35. Soup may be correctly served in several different ways, the 
method to adopt usually depending on the kind of soup. Thin, clear 
soups are generally served in bouillon cups, as shown in Fig. 3, which 
may be placed on the table immediately before the family assembles 
or passed after the members are seated. Heavier soups may be 
served at the table from a soup tureen, or each person's portion 




Fig. 3 

may be served before the family comes to the table. For soups of 
this kind, the flat soup plate, like that shown in Fig. 4, is found 
preferable. 

The spoon to be served with soup also depends on the kind of 
soup, but a larger spoon than a teaspoon is always necessary. When 
soup is served in a soup plate, a dessert spoon is used, as will be 
observed in Fig. 4. A bouillon spoon is the best kind to use with 
any thin soup served in bouillon cups. Such a spoon, as shoNvn 
in Fig. 3, is about the length of a teaspoon, but has a round bowl. 

36, To increase the attractiveness of soup and at the same time 
make it more appetizing and nutritious, various accompaniments 
and relishes are served with it. When the accompaniment is in the 
form of crackers, croutons, or bread sticks, they may be passed after 
the soup is served, or, as shown in Figs. 3 and 4, a few of them 
may be placed on the bread-and-butter plate at each person's place. 



§9 



SOUP 



17 



The relishes should be passed while the soup is being eaten. Plain 
whipped cream or whipped cream into which a little mashed 
pimiento has been stirred adds much to the flavor and appearance 
of soup when served on the top of any hot or cold variety. Then, 
too, many soups, especially vegetable soups, are improved in flavor 
by the addition of a spoonful of grated cheese, which should be 
sprinkled into the dish at the time of serving. For this purpose, a 




Fig. 4 

hard, dry cheese, such as Parmesan, which can often be purchased 
already grated in bottles, is the most satisfactory. 

37. In summer, clear soups are sometimes served cold, as cold 
soups are found more desirable for warm weather than hot ones. 
However, when a soup is intended to be hot, it should be hot when 
it is ready to be eaten, and every effort should be made to have it 
in this condition if an appetizing soup is desired. This can be 
accomplished if the soup is thoroughly heated before it is removed 
from the stove and the dishes in which it is to be served are warmed 
before the soup is put into them. 



WI— C3— 3 



18 SOUP § 9 



RECIPES FOR SOUP AND SOUP 
ACCOMPANIMENTS 



NECESSITY FOR CAREFUL WORK 

38. So that the housewife may put into practice the knowledge 
she has gained about soup making, there are here given recipes for 
various kinds of soup. As will be observed, these recipes are classi- 
fied according to the consistency and nature of the soups, all those 
of one class being placed in the same group. As it is important, too, 
for the housewife to know how to prepare the various accompani- 
ments and garnishes that are generally served with soup, directions 
for the making of these are also given and they follow the soup 
recipes. 

39. In carrying out these recipes, it will be well to note that 
exactness in fulfilling the requirements and care in working out 
the details of the recipes are essential. These points cannot be 
ignored in the making of soup any more than in other parts of 
cookery, provided successful results and excellent appearance are 
desired. It is therefore wise to form habits of exactness. For 
instance, when vegetables are to be cut for soups, they should be 
cut into pieces of equal size, or, if they are to be diced, they should 
be cut so that the dice are alike. All the pieces must be of the same 
thickness in order to insure uniform cooking; if this precaution is 
not observed, some of the pieces are likely to overcook and fall to 
pieces before the others are done. 

Strict attention should also be given to the preparation of other 
ingredients and the accompaniments. The meat used must be cut 
very carefully rather than in ragged, uneven pieces. Noodles, which 
are often used in soup, may be of various widths ; but all those used 
at one time should be uniform in width — that is, all wide or all nar- 
row. If diflferent widths are used, an impression of careless cutting 
will be given. Croutons and bread sticks, to be most satisfactory, 
should be cut straight and even, and, in order to toast uniformly, all 
those made at one time should be of the same size. 



§ 9 SOUP 19 



STOCKS AND CLEAR SOUPS 

40. Stock for Clear Soup or Bouillon. — ^A plain, but well- 
flavored, beef stock may be made according to the accompanying 
recipe and used as a basis for any clear soup served as bouillon 
without the addition of anything else. However, as the addition of 
rice, barley, chopped macaroni, or any other such food will increase 
the food value of the soup, any of them may be supplied to produce 
a more nutritious soup. When this stock is served clear, it should 
be used as the first course in a comparatively heavy meal. 

Stock for Clear Soup or Bouillon 

4 lb. beef 6 whole cloves 

4 qt. cold water 12 peppercorns 
1 medium-sized onion 1 bay leaf 

1 stalk celery Salt 

2 sprigs parsley Pepper 

Cut the meat into small pieces. Pour the cold water over it, place 
on a slow fire, and let it come to a boil. Skim off all scum that rises 
to the top. Cover tightly and keep at the simmering point for 6 to 
8 hours. Then strain and remove the fat. Add the onion and 
celery cut into pieces, the parsley, cloves, peppercorns, and bay leaf. 
Simmer gently for about 20 minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
Strain through a cloth. 

41. Household Stock. — If it is desired to make a stock that 
may be kept on hand constantly and that may be used as a founda- 
tion for various kinds of soups, sauces, and gravies, or as a broth 
for making casserole dishes, household stock will be found very 
satisfactory. Such stock made in quantity and kept in a sufficiently 
cool place may be used for several days before it spoils. Since most 
of the materials used in this stock cannot be put to any other par- 
ticularly good use, and since the labor required in making it is slight, 
this may be regarded as an extremely economical stock. 

Household Stock 
3 qt. cold water 4 cloves 

3 lb. meat (trimmings of fresh 6 peppercorns 

meat, bones, and tough pieces Herbs 

from roasts, steaks, etc.) Salt 

1 medium-sized onion Pepper 

Pour the cold water over the meat and bones and put them on the 
fire to cook. When they come to a boil skim well. Then cover and 



20 SOUP § 1) 

simmer 4 to 6 hours. Add the onion, cloves, peppercorns, and herbs 
and cook for another hour. Add salt and pepper to taste. Strain 
and set aside to cool. Remove the fat. 

42. White Stock. — An especially nice broth having a delicate 
flavor and generally used for special functions when an attractive 
meal is being served to a large number of persons is made from 
veal and fowl and known as white stock. If allowed to remain in 
a cool place, this stock will solidify, and then it may be used as the 
basis for a jellied meat dish or salad. 

White Stock 
5 lb. veal 2 stalks celery 

1 fowl, 3 or 4 lb. 1 blade mace 
8 qt. cold water Salt 

2 medium-sized onions Pepper 
2 Tb. butter 

Cut the veal and fowl into pieces and add the cold water. Place 
on a slow fire, and let come gradually to the boiling point. Skim 
carefully and place where it will simmer gently for 6 hours. Slice 
the onions, brown slightly in the butter, and add to the stock with 
the celery and mace. Salt and pepper to suit taste. Cook 1 hour 
longer and then strain and cool. Remove the fat before using. 

43. Consommfi. — One of the most delicious of the thin, clear 
broths is consomme. This is usually served plain, but any material 
that will not cloud it, such as finely diced vegetables, green peas, 
tiny pieces of fowl or meat, may, if desired, be added to it before 
it is served. As » rule, only a very small quantity of such material 
is used for each serving. 

CoNSOMMi 

4 lb. lower round of beef 5 cloves 

4 lb. shin of veal 4 sprigs parsley 

i c. butter Pinch summer savory 

8 qt. cold water Pinch thyme 

1 small carrot 2 bay leaves 

1 large onion Salt 

2 stalks celery Pepper 
12 peppercorns 

Cut the beef and veal into small pieces. Put the butter and meat 
into the stock kettle, and stir over the fire until the meat begins to 
brown. Add the cold water, and let come to the boiling point. 
Skim carefully and let simmer for 6 hours. Cut the vegetables into 



§ 9 SOUP 21 

small pieces and add to the stock with the spices and herbs. Cook 
for 1 hour, adding salt and pepper to suit taste. Strain and cool. 
Remove the fat and clear according to directions previously given. 

44. Tomato Bouillon. — It is possible to make a clear tomato 
soup without meat stock, but the recipe here given, which is made 
with meat stock, has the advantage of possessing a better flavor. 
The tomato in this bouillon lends an agreeable color and flavor and 
affords a change from the usual clear soup. Cooked rice, macaroni, 
spaghetti, or vermicelli may be added to tomato bouillon to provide 
an additional quantity of nutrition and vary the plain soup. 

Tomato Bouillon 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 qt. meat stock ^ tsp. pepper 

1 tsp. salt 1 can tomatoes 

1 Tb. sugar 
Heat the stock, and to it add the salt, sugar, and pepper. Rub 

the tomatoes through a fine sieve, and add them to the stock. Cook 

together for a few minutes and serve. 



HEAVY THICK SOUPS 

45. Julienne Soup.f — A very good way in which to utilize 
any small quantities of vegetables that may be in supply but are not 
sufficient to serve alone is to use them in julienne soup. For soup 
of this kind, vegetables are often cut into fancy shapes, but this is 
a more or less wasteful practice and should not be followed, as tiny 
strips or dice cut finely and carefully are quite as agreeable. The 
vegetables do not add a large amount of nutriment to this soup, but 
they introduce into the soup mineral salts that the soups would 
otherwise not have and they also add a variety of flavor. 

Julienne Soup 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. mixed vegetables 1 qt. stock 

i tsp. salt i tsp. pepper 

Cut into tiny dice or into strips such vegetables as celery, carrots, 
and turnips, making them as nearly the same size and shape as 
possible. Put them on to cook in enough boiling salted water to 
cover well. Cook until they are soft enough to be pierced with a 
fork, but do not lose their shape. Drain off the water and put the 



22 SOUP § 9 

vegetables into the stock. Bring to the boihng point, season with the 
pepper, and serve. 

46. Ox-Tail Soup. — The use of ox tails for soup helps to 
utilize a part of the beef that would ordinarily be wasted, and, as 
a rule, ox tails are comparatively cheap. Usually the little bits of 
meat that cook oflE the bones are allowed to remain in the soup. 
Variety may be obtained by the addition of different kinds of 
vegetables. 

Ox-Tail Soup 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

2 ox tails 1 Tb. mixed herbs 

1 large onion 4 peppercorns 

1 Tb. beef drippings 1 Tb. salt 

4 qt. cold water 
Wash and cut up the ox tails, separating them at the joints. Slice 
the onion and brown it and half of the ox tails in the beef drip- 
pings. When they are browned, put them and the remainder of the 
ox tails into a kettle. Add the water and the herbs and peppercorns 
tied in a little piece of cheesecloth. Bring to the boiling point, and 
then simmer for 3 to 4 hours or until the meat separates from the 
bones. Add the salt an hour before serving the soup. Remove the 
fat and serve some of the nicest joints with the soup. If vegetables 
are desired, they should be diced and added 20 minutes before 
serving, so that they will be cooked soft. 

47. Mulligatawny Soup. — If a highly seasoned soup is 
desired, mulligatawny, although not a particularly cheap soup, will 
be found very satisfactory. The curry powder that is used adds 
an unusual flavor that is pleasing to many people, but if it is not 
desired, it may be omitted. 

Mulligatawny Soup 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

3 lb. chicken 4 cloves 

1 lb. veal 1 stalk celery 

4 qt. cold water 1 Tb. curry powder 

2 onions 1 tsp. salt 

1 Tb. butter | tsp. pepper 

4 peppercorns 1 lemon 

Cut up the chicken and veal, add the cold water to them, and place 

over a slow fire. Slice the onions and brown them in the butter. 

Add them and the peppercorns, cloves, chopped celery, and curry 

powder stirred to a smooth paste with a little water to the meat. 



§9 



SOUP 



23 



Simmer together slowly until the chicken is tender. Remove the 
meat from the bones and cut it into small pieces. Put the bones 
into the kettle and simmer for another hour. Strain the liquid from 
the veal and bones and remove the fat. Add the salt, pepper, 
chicken, and the juice of the lemon. Return to the fire and cook for 
a few minutes. Serve with a tablespoonful or two of cooked rice 
in each soup dish. 

48. Noodle Soup. — The addition of noodles to soup increases 
its food value to a considerable extent by providing carbohydrate 
from the flour and protein from the egg and flour. Noodle soup is 
a very attractive dish if the noodles are properly made, for then 
they will not cause the soup to become cloudy when they are put 
into it. Little difficulty will be experienced if the directions here 
given for making noodles are followed explicitly. 

Noodle Soup 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 egg 1 qt. household stock 

1 Tb. milk 3 sprigs parsley 

■J tsp. salt 1 small onion 

Flour 
To make noodles, beat the egg slightly, add to it the milk, and stir 
in the salt and enough flour to make a stiff dough. Toss upon a 




Fig. 5 

floured board and roll very thin. Allow the dough to dry for ^ hour 
or more, and then, as shown in Fig. 5, cut it into strips about 
4 inches wide. Place several strips together, one on top of the 



24 



SOUP 



§9 



other, and roll them up tight, in the manner indicated. Cut each roll 
into thin slices with a sharp knife, as shown in Fig. 6. When the 
slices are separated the noodles should appear as shown in the pile 
at the right. If it is desired not to follow this plan, the dough may 
be rolled into a thin sheet and cut into strips with a noodle cutter. 




Fig. 6 

Such a supply of noodles may be used at once, or they may be 
dried thoroughly and sealed tightly in a jar for future use. The 
very dry ones, however, require a little longer cooking than those 
which are freshly made. With the noodles prepared, heat the stock 
with the parsley and onion chopped very fine. Add the noodles and 
cook for 15 or 20 minutes or until the noodles are thoroughly 
cooked. 

Rice, barley, macaroni, and other starchy materials may be added 
to stock in the same way as the noodles. 

49. Vegetable Soup With Noodles. — The combination of 
noodles and vegetables in soup is a very excellent one, since the 
vegetables add flavor and the noodles add nutritive value. If the 
vegetables given in the accompanying recipe cannot be readily 
obtained, others may be substituted. 

Vegetable Soup With Noodles 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 carrot i tsp. salt 

1 onion i c. noodles 

1 turnip 2 sprigs parsley 

1 stalk celery -J tsp. pepper 

1 c. boiling water 1 qt. household stock 



SOUP 



25 



Dice the vegetables and put them on to cook with the boiling 
water and the salt. Cook for a few minutes or until partly soft. 
Add the noodles, parsley, pepper, and stock and cook for IS min- 
utes longer. Serve. 



CREAM SOUPS 

50. Soups classed as cream soups consist of a thin white 
sauce to which is added a vegetable in the form of a puree or cut 
into small pieces. Because of their nature, cream soups are usually 
high in food value ; but they are not highly flavored, so their use is 
that of supplying nutrition rather than stimulating the appetite. 
Considerable variety can be secured in cream soups, for there are 
scarcely any vegetables 
that cannot be used in 
the making of them. 
Potatoes, corn, aspara- 
gus, spinach, peas, toma- 
toes, and onions are the 
vegetables that are used 
oftenest, but cream 
soups may also be made 
of vegetable oysters, 
okra, carrots, water- 
cress, celery, cabbage, 
cauliflower, beans, len- 
tils, and dried peas. The 
vegetables may be cooked especially for the soup, or left-over or 
canned vegetables may be utilized. It is an excellent plan to cook 
more than enough of some vegetables for one day, so that some will 
be left over and ready for soup the next day. 

If the vegetable is not cut up into small pieces, it must be put 
through a sieve and made into the form of a puree before it can 
be added to the liquid. Two kinds of sieves for this purpose are 
shown in Fig. 7. It will be observed that with the large, round 
sieve, a potato masher must be used to mash the vegetables, the 
pulp of which is caught by the utensil in which the sieve is held. 
In making use of the smaller sieve, or ricer, the vegetable is placed 
in it and then mashed by pressing the top down over the contents 
with the aid of the handles. 




Fig. 7 



26 SOUP § 9 

51. Thin White Sauce.-^The liquid for cream soups should 
be thin white sauce made entirely of milk or of milk and cream. 
The flavor of the soup will be improved, however, by using with 
the milk some meat stock, or the stock that remains from cooking 
celery, asparagus, or any vegetables that will lend a good flavor to 
the soup. The recipe here given makes a sauce that may be used 
for any kind of cream soup. 

Thin White Sauce 

1 pt. milk, or milk and cream or 2 Tb. butter 

stock 2 Tb. flour 

1 tsp. salt 
Heat the liquid, salt, and butter in a double boiler. Stir the flour 
and some of the cold liquid that has been reserved to a perfectly 
smooth, thin paste and add to the hot liquid. Stir constantly after 
adding the flour, so that no lumps will form. When the sauce 
becomes thick, it is ready for the addition of any flavoring material 
that will make a palatable soup. If thick material, such as any 
vegetable in the form of a puree, rice, or potato, is used without 
additional liquid, only half as much flour will be required to thicken 
the sauce. 

52. Cream-of-Potato Soup. — Because of the large quantity 
of carbohydrate derived from the potato, cream-of -potato soup is 
high in food value. For persons who are fond of the flavor of the 
potato, this makes a delicious soup and one that may be served as 
the main dish in a light meal. 

Ceeam-of-Potato Soup 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 slices of onion 1 Tb. flour 

1 sprig parsley 2 Tb. butter 

2 medium-sized potatoes 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. milk i tsp. pepper 

1 c. potato water 
Cook the onion and parsley with the potatoes, and, when cooked 
soft, drain and mash. Make a sauce of the milk, potato water, 
flour, and butter. Season with the salt and pepper, add the mashed 
potato, and serve. 

53. Cream-of-Corn Soup. — -The flavor of corn is excellent 
in a cream soup, the basis of the soup being milk, butter, and flour. 
Then, too, the addition of the corn, which is comparatively high in 
food value, makes a very nutritious soup. 



§ 9 SOUP 27 

Cream-of-Corn Soup 
(SuiEcient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk 1 c. canned corn 

1 Tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 Tb. flour i tsp. pepper 

Make a white sauce of the milk, butter, and flour. Force the corn 
through a colander or a sieve, and add the puree to the white sauce. 
Season with the salt and pepper, and serve. 

54. Cream-of-Asparagus Soup. — The asparagus used in 
cream-of-asparagus soup adds very little besides flavor, but this is 
of sufficient value to warrant its use. If a pinch of soda is used 
in asparagus soup, there is less danger of the curdling that some- 
times occurs. In making this soup, the asparagus should be com- 
bined with the white sauce just before serving. 

Cream-of-Asparagus Soup 

(SuiBcient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk 1 c. asparagus puree 

2 Tb. flour 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter ^ tsp. pepper 
Make white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Add to it the 
cup of puree made by forcing freshly cooked or canned asparagus 
through a sieve. Season with the salt and pepper, and serve. 

55. Cream-of-Spinach Soup. — Although cream-of-spinach 
soup is not especially attractive in appearance, most persons enjoy 
its flavor, and the soup serves as another way of adding an iron-con- 
taining food to the diet. Children may often be induced to take the 
soup when they would refuse the spinach as a vegetable. 

Cream-of-Spinach Soup 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk i c. spinach puree 

2 Tb. flour 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 
Make white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Add the spinach 
puree, made by forcing freshly cooked or canned spinach through a 
sieve. Season with the salt and pepper, heat thoroughly, and serve. 

56. Cream-of-Pea Soup. — Either dried peas or canned green 
peas rnay be used to make cream-of-pea soup. If dried peas are 
used, they must first be cooked soft enough to pass through a sieve. 
The flavor is quite different from that of green peas. With the use 
of green peas, a fair amount of both protein and carbohydrate is 



28 SOUP § 9 

added to the soup, but more protein is provided when dried peas 
are used. 

Ckeam-of-Pea Soup 
(SuiEcient to Serve Four) 

1 pt. milk i c. pea puree 

1 Tb. flour 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

Make white sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Put enough 
freshly cooked or canned peas through a sieve to make i cupful of 
puree. Then add the pea puree, the salt, and the pepper to the 
white sauce. Heat thoroughly and serve. 

57. Cream-of-Toinato Soup. — ^As a rule, cream-of-tomato 
soup is popular with every one. Besides being pleasing to the 
taste, it is comparatively high in food value, because its basis is 
cream sauce. However, the tomatoes themselves add very little 
else besides flavor and mineral salts. 

Cream-of-Tomato Soxjp 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 c. canned tomatoes ^ tsp. soda 

1 pt. milk 1 tsp. salt 

3 Tb. flour i tsp. pepper 

3 Tb. butter 
Force the tomatoes through a sieve and heat them. Make white 
sauce of the milk, flour, and butter. Add the soda to the tomatoes, 
and pour them slowly into the white sauce, stirring rapidly. If the 
sauce begins to curdle, beat the soup quickly with a rotary egg 
beater. Add the salt and pepper and serve. 

58. Cream-of-Onion Soup. — Many persons who are not fond 
of onions can often eat soup made of this vegetable. This is prob- 
ably due to the fact that the browning of the onions before they 
are used in the soup improves the flavor very decidedly. In addi- 
tion, this treatment of the onions gives just a little color to the soup. 

Cream-of-Onion Soup 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

4 medium-sized onions 2^ c. milk 

4 Tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. flour J tsp. pepper 

Slice the onions and brown them in a frying pan with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of the butter. Make white sauce of the flour, the remain- 
ing butter, and the milk. Add to this the browned onions, salt, and 
pepper. Heat thoroughly and serve. 



§ 9 SOUP 29 



PUREES 

59. Chestnut Pur6e. — There are many recipes for the use of 

chestnuts in the making of foods, but probably none is any more 
popular than that for chestnut puree. The chestnuts develop a light- 
tan color in the soup. The very large ones should be purchased for 
this purpose, since chestnuts of ordinary size are very tedious to 
work with. 

Chestnut Puree 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1 c. mashed chestnuts 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. milk i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. flour i tsp. celery salt 
2 Tb. butter 1 c. white stock 

Cook Spanish chestnuts for 10 minutes; then remove the shells 
and skins and mash the chestnuts. Make white sauce of the milk, 
flour, and butter. Add to this the mashed chestnuts, salt, pepper, 
celery salt, and stock. Heat thoroughly and serve. 

60. Split-Pea Pur^e. — Dried peas or split peas are extremely 
high in food value, and their addition to soup stock makes a highly 
nutritious soup of very delightful flavor. Such a puree served in 
quantity does nicely for the main dish in a light meal. Instead of 
the peas, dried beans or lentils may be used if they are preferred. 

Split-Pea Puree 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

f c. split peas i tsp. pepper 

1 pt. white stock 2 Tb. butter 

1 tsp. salt 2 Tb. flour 

Soak the peas overnight, and cook in sufficient water to cover 
well until they are soft. When thoroughly soft, drain the water 
from the peas and put them through a colander. Heat the stock 
and add to it the pea puree, salt, and pepper. Rub the butter and 
flour together, moisten with some of the warm liquid, and add to 
the soup. Cook for a few minutes and serve. 



30 SOUP § 9 



CHOWDERS 

61. Clam Chowder^ — The flavor of clams, like that of oysters 
and other kinds of sea food, is offensive to some persons, but where 
this is not the case, clam chowder is a popular dish of high food 
value. This kind of soup is much used in localities where clams 
are plentiful. 

Clam Chowder 
(SufBcient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. water i c. diced celery 

1 qt. clams H c milk 

1 small onion 2 Tb. butter 

1 c. sliced potatoes li tsp. salt 

i c. stewed tomatoes i tsp. pepper 

I c. diced carrots 
Add the water to the clams, and pick them over carefully to 
remove any shell. Strain the liquid through cheesecloth, and then 
scald the clams in it. Remove the clams and cook the vegetables in 
the liquid until they are soft. Add the milk, butter, salt, and pepper 
and return the clams. Heat thoroughly and serve over crackers. 

62. Fish. Chowder, — An excellent way in which to utilize a 
small quantity of fish is afforded by fish chowder. In addition, this 
dish is quite high in food value, so that when it is served with 
crackers, little of anything else need be served with it to make an 
entire meal if it be luncheon or supper. Cod, haddock, or fresh- 
water fish may be used in the accompanying recipe. 

Fish Chowder 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 lb. fish li tsp. salt 

1 small onion 4 tsp. pepper 

1 c. sliced potatoes 2 Tb. butter 

I c. stewed tomatoes IJ c. milk 

Skin the fish, remove the flesh, and cut it into small pieces. Sim- 
mer the head, bones, and skin of the fish and the onion in water 
for i hour. Strain, and add to this stock the fish, potatoes, toma- 
toes, salt, and pepper. Simmer together until the potatoes are soft. 
Add the butter and milk. Serve over crackers. 

63. Potato Chowder, — A vegetable mixture such as the one 
suggested in the accompanying recipe is in reality not a chowder, 
for this form of soup requires sea food for its basis. However, 



§ 9 SOUP 31 

when it is impossible to procure the sea food, potato chowder does 
nicely as a change from the usual soup. This chowder differs in 
no material way from soup stock in this form. 

Potato Chowder 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

1^ c. sliced potatoes 1 tsp. salt 

1 small onion, sliced -J tsp. pepper 

1 c. water 2 Tb. butter 

14 c. milk 
Cook the potatoes and onion in the water until they are soft, but 
not soft enough to fall to pieces. Rub half of the potatoes through 
a sieve and return to the sliced ones. Add the milk, salt, pepper, and 
butter. Cook together for a few minutes and serve. 

64. Corn. Chowder. — The addition of corn to potato chowder 
adds variety of flavor and makes a delicious mixture of vegetables. 
This dish is rather high in food value, especially if the soup is 
served over crackers. A small amount of tomato, although not 
mentioned in the recipe, may be added to this combination to 
improve the flavor. 

Corn Chowder 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sliced potatoes IJ c. milk 

1 small onion, sliced 2 Tb. butter 
1 c. water 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. canned corn ^ tsp. pepper 

Cook the potatoes and onions in the water until they are soft. 

Add the corn, milk, butter, salt, and pepper, and cook together for 

a few minutes. Serve over crackers. 



SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS ANB GARNISHES 

65. The soup course of a meal is a more or less unattractive 
one, but it may be improved considerably if some tempting thing in 
the way of a garnish or an accompaniment is served with it. But 
whatever is selected to accompany soup should be, in a great 
measure, a contrast to it in both consistency and color. The reason 
why a difference in consistency is necessary is due to the nature of 
soup, which, being liquid in form, is merely swallowed and does not 
stimulate the flow of the gastric juices by mastication. Therefore, 
the accompaniment should be something that requires chewing and 
rhat will consequently cause the digestive juices, which respond to 



32 



SOUP 



§9 



the mechanical action of chewing, to flow. The garnish may add the 
color that is needed to make soup attractive. The green and red of 

olives and radishes or 
of celery and radishes 
make a decided con- 
trast, so that when any 
of these things are 
served with soup, an 
appetizing first course 
is the result. It is not 
necessary to serve more 
than one of them, but if celery and radishes or celery, radishes, 
and olives can be combined in the same relish dish, they become more 
attractive than when each is served by itself. 




Fig. 8 



66. Radishes and Celery. — Before radishes and celery are 
used on the table, whether with soup or some other part of a meal, 
they should be put into cold water and allowed to stand for some 
time, so that they will be perfectly crisp when they are served. In 
the case of radishes, the tops and roots should first be cut from 
them, and the radishes then scrubbed thoroughly. They may be 
served without any further treatment, or they may be prepared to 
resemble flowers, as is shown in Fig. 8. This may be done by peel- 
ing the red skin back to show the white inside, and then cutting the 
sections to look like the petals of a flower. Little difficulty will be 




Fig. 9 



experienced in preparing radishes in this artistic way if a sharp 
knife is used, for, with a little practice, the work can be done quickly 
and skilfully. 



§ 9 SOUP 33 

67. Celery that is to be served with soup may be prepared in two 
ways, as Fig. 9 illustrates. The stems may be pulled from the; stalk 
and served separately, as in the group on the right, or the stalk may 
be cut down through the center with a knife into four or more 
pieces, as shown at the left of the illustration. The first of these 
methods is not so good as the second, for by it one person gets all 
of the tender heart and the coarse outside stems are left for all the 
others. By the second method, every piece consists of some of the 
heart and some of the outside stems attached to the root and makes 
a similar serving for each person. Whichever way is adopted, how- 
ever, the celery should be scrubbed and cleansed thoroughly. This 
is often a difficult task, because the dirt sticks tightly between the 
stems. Still, an effort should be made to have the celery entirely 
free from dirt before it goes to the table. A few tender yellow 
leaves may be left on the pieces to improve the appearance of the 
celery. 

68. Crackers. — Various kinds of wafers and crackers can be 
purchased to serve with soup, and the selection, as well as the serving 
of them, is entirely a matter of individual taste. One point, how- 
ever, that must not be overlooked is that crackers of any kind must 
be crisp in order to be appetizing. Dry foods of this sort absorb 
moisture from the air when they are exposed to it and consequently 
become tough. As heat drives off this moisture and restores the 
original crispness, crackers should always be heated before they are 
served. Their flavor can be improved by toasting them until they 
are light brown in color. 

69. Croutons. — As has already been learned, croutons are 
small pieces of bread that have been fried or toasted to serve with 
soup. These are usually made in the form of cubes, or dice, as is 
shown in the front group in Fig. 10 ; but they may be cut into tri- 
angles, circles, ovals, hearts, or, in fact, any fancy shape, by means 
of small cutters that can be purchased for such purposes. The 
bread used for croutons should not be fresh bread, as such bread 
does not toast nor fry very well; left-over toast, stale bread, cr 
slices of bread that have been cut from the loaf and not eaten are 
usually found more satisfactory. If the croutons are not made from 
slices already cut, the bread should be cut into slices i to J inch 
thick, and, after the crusts have been closely trimmed, the slices 
should be cut into cubes. When the cubes have been obtained, they 

WT— CV-4 



34 SOUP § 9 

may be put into a shallow pan and toasted on all sides quickly, 
placed in a frying basket and browned in deep fat, or put into a 
frying pan and sauted in butter. If toast is used, it should merely 
be cut in the desired shape. 

Various methods of serving croutons are in practice. Some 
housewives prefer to place them in the soup tureen and pour the 
soup over them, while others like to put a few in each individual 
serving of soup. A better plan, however, and one that is much 
followed, is to serve a number of croutons on a small plate or dish 
at each person's place, as shown in Figs. 3 and 4, for then every one 
may eat them in the way preferred. 

70. Bread Sticks^ — ^A soup accompaniment similar in nature 
to croutons, and known as bread sticks, is made of pieces of bread 
i inch wide, ^ inch thick, and several inches long. These are toasted 



Fig. 10 

on each side and are served in place of crackers. A number of them 
are shown in the back row in Fig. 10. Variety in bread sticks may 
be secured by spreading butter over them before the toasting is 
begun or by sprinkling grated cheese over them a few minutes 
before they are removed from the oven. Bread sticks are usually 
served on a bread-and-butter plate to the left of each person's place 
at the table. 

71. Pastry Strips. — ^A very appetizing addition to soup may 
be made by cutting pastry into narrow strips and then baking these 
strips in the oven until they are brown or frying them in deep fat 
and draining them. Strips prepared in this way may be served in 
place of crackers, croutons, or bread sticks, and are considered 
delicious by those who are fond of pastry. Details regarding 
pastry are given in another Section. 



§ 9 SOUP 35 

72. Soup Fritters. — If an entirely different kind of soup 
accompaniment from those already mentioned is desired, soup frit- 
ters will no doubt find favor. These are made by combining certain 
ingredients to form a batter and then dropping small amounts of 
this into hot fat and frying them until they are crisp and brown. 
The accompanying recipe, provided it is followed carefully, will 
produce good results. 

Soup Fritters 

1 egg f tsp. salt 

2 Tb. milk | c. flour 

Beat the egg, and to it add the milk, salt, and flour. Drop the 
batter in tiny drops into hot fat, and fry until brown and crisp. 
Drain on paper and serve with the soup. 

73. Egg Balls. — To serve with a soup that is well flavored 
but not highly nutritious, egg balls are very satisfactory. In addi- 
tion to supplying nutrition, these balls are extremely appetizing, and 
so they greatly improve a course that is often unattractive. Careful 
attention given to the ingredients and the directions in the accom- 
panying recipe will produce good results. 

Egg Balls 

3 yolks of hard-cooked eggs Salt and pepper 
•^ tsp. melted butter 1 uncooked yolk 

Mash the cooked yolks, and to them add the butter, salt, and 
pepper, and enough of the uncooked yolk to make the mixture of a 
consistency to handle easily. Shape into tiny balls. Roll in the 
white of egg and then in flour and saute in butter. Serve in the 
individual dishes of soup. 

74. Forcemeat Balls. — ^Another delicious form of accom- 
paniment that improves certain soups by adding nutrition is force- 
meat balls. These contain various nutritious ingredients combined 
into small balls, and the balls are then either sauted or fried in deep 
fat. They may be placed in the soup tureen or in each person's 

soup. 

Forcemeat Balls 

i c. fine stale-bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

1 c. milk Few grains of pepper 

2 Tb. butter f c. breast of raw chicken or 
White of 1 egg raw fish 



36 SOUP § 9 

Cook the bread crumbs and milk to form a paste, and to this add 
the butter, beaten egg white, and seasonings. Pound the chicken 
or fish to a pulp, or force it through a food chopper and then 
through a puree strainer. Add this to the first mixture. Form 
into tiny balls. Roll in flour and either saute or fry in deep fat. 
Serve hot. 

75. American Forcemeat Balls. — ^A simple kind of force- 
meat balls may be made according to the accompanying recipe. The 
meat used may be sausage provided especially for the purpose or 
some that is left over from a previous meal. If it is not possible 
to obtain sausage, some other highly seasoned meat, such as ham 
first ground very fine and then pounded to a pulp, may be sub- 
stituted. 

American Forcemeat Balls 

1 Tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 small onion ^ tsp. pepper 

IJ c. bread, without crusts Dash of nutmeg 

1 tgg 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

i c. sausage meat 
Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the onion finely chopped. 
Fry for several minutes over the fire. Soak the bread in water until 
thoroughly softened and then squeeze out all the water. Mix with 
the bread the egg, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and meat, and to 
this add also the butter and fried onion. Form small balls of this 
mixture and saute them in shallow fat, fry them in deep fat, or, after 
brushing them over with fat, bake them in the oven. Place a few in 
each serving of soup. 



SOUP 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) Mention the two purposes that soups serve in a meal. (6) What 
are the qualities of a good soup ? 

(2) (o) Mention the two general classes of soup. (6) Explain and illus- 
trate how to choose a soup. 

(3) Why is soup an economical dish? 

(4) (a) Explain in full the meaning of stock as applied to soup. (6) For 
what purposes other than soup making is stock used? 

(5) (a) What is the value of the stock pot? (&) What care should be 
given to it? 

(6) Mention some of the materials that may be put into the stock pot. 

(7) (a) Why are the tough cuts of meat more suitable for soup than the 
tender ones? (6) Name the pieces that are best adapted to soup making. 

(8) (o) What proportion of bone to meat should be used in making soup 
from fresh meat? (6) For what two purposes are vegetables used in soup? 

(9) Explain briefly the making of stock from meat. 

(10) (a) Why should the cooking of the meat for stock be started with 
cold water rather than with hot water? (&) What disposal should be made of 
meat from which stock is made? 

(11) (a) Of what value are flavorings in the making of soups? (6) What 
precaution should be taken in the use of flavorings ? 

(12) Explain how prrease may be removed from soup. 

(13) How may soup be cleared? 

(14) (o) For what purposes is thickening used in soups? (6) Mention 
the materials most used to thicken soups. 

(15) What precaution should be taken to keep soup or stock from spoiling. 

(16) What point about the serving of soup should be observed if an appetiz- 
ing soup is desired ? 

(17) What kind of dish is used for serving: (a) thin soup? (6) thick 
soup? 

§9 



2 SOUP §9 

(18) (a) What is a cream soup? (6) Give the general directions for 
making soup of this kind. 

(19) (o) How may the soup course of a meal be made more attractive? 
(6) In what ways should soup accompaniments be a contrast to the soup? 

(20) (o) Explain the making of croutons. (6) What is the most satis- 
factory way in which to prepare celery that is to be served with soup? 



ADDITIONAL WORK 

Plain and prepare a dinner menu from the recipes given in the lessons that 
you have studied. Submit the menu for this dinner and give the order in which 
you prepared the dishes. In addition, tell the number of persons you served, as 
well as what remained after the meaj and whether or not you made use of it 
for another meal. Send this information with your answers to the Examina- 
tion Questions. 



MEAT 

(PART 1) 



MEAT IN THE DIET 



TALUE OP MEAT AS POOD 

1. In its broadest sense, meat may be considered as "any clean, 
sound, dressed or properly prepared edible part of animals that are 
in good health at the time of slaughter." However, the flesh of 
carniverous animals — ^that is, animals that eat the flesh of other 
animals — is so seldom eaten by man, that the term meat is usually 
restricted to the flesh of all animals except these. But even this 
meaning of meat is too broad ; indeed, as the term is generally used it 
refers particularly to the flesh of the so-called domestic animals, and 
does not include poultry, game, fish, and the like. It is in this limited 
sense that meat is considered in these Sections, and the kinds to 
which attention is given are beef, veal, lamb, mutton, and pork. 
Meat, including these varieties, forms one of the principal sources 
of the family's food supply. As such, it is valuable chiefly as a 
food; but, in the form of broths and extracts made from it, meat 
stimulates the appetite and actually assists the flow of gastric juice. 
Therefore, so that the outlay for meat will not be greater than it 
should be and this food will provide the greatest amount of nourish- 
ment, every housewife should be thoroughly familiar with the place 
it occupies in the dietary. 

2. In the first place, it should be remembered that the food 
eaten by human beings comes from two sources — animal and vege- 
table. The foods of animal origin, which include milk, eggs, and 
meat, have a certain similarity that causes them to be classed together 
and this is the fact that they are high-protein foods. Milk is the 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§10 



2 MEAT § 10 

first protein food fed to the young, but a little later it is partly- 
replaced by eggs, and, finally, or in adult life, meat largely takes 
the place of both. For this reason, meat has considerable importance 
in the dietary. In reality, from this food is obtained the greatest 
amount of protein that the average person eats. However, it will 
be well to note that milk and eggs, as well as cheese and even cereals 
and vegetables, can be made to take the place of meat when the use 
of less of this food is deemed advisable. 

3. As the work of protein foods is to build and repair tissue, it 
is on them that the human race largely depends. Of course, protein 
also yields energy ; but the amount is so small that if one variety 
of protein food, such as meat, were eaten simply to supply energy 
to the body, huge quantities of it would be needed to do the same 
work that a small amount of less expensive food would accomplish. 
Some persons have an idea that meat produces the necessary strength 
and energy of those who perform hard work. This is entirely 
erroneous, because fats and carbohydrates are the food substances 
that produce the energy required to do work. Some kind of protein 
is, of course, absolutely necessary to the health of every normal 
person, but a fact that cannot be emphasized too strongly is that an 
oversupply of it does more harm than good. 

Scientists have been trying for a long time to determine just how 
much of these tissue-building foods is necessary for individuals, 
but they have found this a difficult matter. Nevertheless, it is gener- 
ally conceded that most persons are likely to use too much rather 
than too little of them. It is essential then, not only from the stand- 
point of economy, but from the far more important principle of 
health, that the modern housewife should know the nutritive value 
of meats. 

4. In her efforts to familiarize herself with these matters, the 
housewife should ever remember that meat is the most expensive 
of the daily foods of a family. Hence, to get the greatest value for 
the money expended, meat must be bought judiciously, cared for 
properly, and prepared carefully. Too many housewives trust the 
not overscrupulous butcher to give them the kind of meat they 
should have, and very often they do not have a clear idea as to 
whether it is the best piece that can be purchased for the desired 
purpose and for the price that is asked. Every housewife ought to 
be so familiar with the various cuts of meat that she need not 



§ 10 MEAT 3 

depend on any one except herself in the purchase of this food. She 
will find that both the buying and the preparation of meats will be a 
simple matter for her if she learns these three important things: 
(1) From what part of the animal the particular piece she desires 
is cut and how to ask for that piece ; (2) how to judge a good piece 
of meat by its appearance; and (3) what to do with it from the 
moment it is purchased until the last bit of it is used. 

5. Of these three things, the cooking of meat is the one that 
demands the most attention, because it has a decided effect on the 
quality and digestibility of this food. Proper cooking is just as 
essential in the case of meat as for any other food, for a tender, 
digestible piece of meat may be made tough and indigestible by 
improper preparation, while a tough piece may be made tender and 
very appetizing by careful, intelligent preparation. The cheaper 
cuts of meat, which are often scorned as being too tough for use, 
may be converted into delicious dishes by the skilful cook who 
understands how to apply the various methods of cookery and 
knows what their effect will be on the meat tissues. 

6. Unfortunately, thorough cooking affects the digestibility of 
meat unfavorably; but it is doubtless a wise procedure in some 
cases because, as is definitely known, some of the parasites that 
attack man find their way into the system through the meat that 
is eaten. These are carried to meat from external sources, such as 
dust, flies, and the soiled hands of persons handling it, and they 
multiply and thrive. It is known, too, that some of the germs that 
cause disease in the animal remain in its flesh and are thus trans- 
mitted to human beings that eat such meat. If there is any question 
as to its good condition, meat must be thoroughly cooked, because 
long cooking completely eliminates the danger from such sources. 



STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION OF MEAT 

7. An understanding of the physical structure of meat is essen- 
tial to its successful cooking. Meat consists of muscular tissue, or 
lean; varying quantities of visible fat that lie between and within 
the membranes and tendons; and also particles of fat that are too 
small to be distinguished except with the aid of a microscope. The 
general nature of the lean part of meat can be determined by exam- 



4 MEAT § 10 

ining a piece of it with merely tiie unaided eye. On close observation, 
it will be noted that, especially in the case of meat that has been 
cooked, innumerable threadlike fibers make up the structure. With 
a microscope, it can be observed that these visible fibers are made 
up of still smaller ones, the length of which varies in diflferent parts 
of the animal. It is to the length of these fibers that the tenderness 
of meat is due. Short fibers are much easier to chew than long 
ones ; consequently, the pieces containing them are the most tender. 
These muscle fibers, which are in the form of tiny tubes, are filled 
with a protein substance. They are held together with a tough, 
stringy material called connective tissue. As the animal grows older 
and its muscles are used more, the walls of these tubes or fibers 
become dense and tough; likewise, the amount of connective tissue 
increases and becomes tougher. Among the muscle fibers are 
embedded layers and particles of fat, the quantity of which varies 
greatly in different animals and depends largely on the age of the 
animal. For instance, lamb and veal usually have very little fat 
in the tissues, mutton and beef always contain more, while pork 
contains a greater amount of fat than the meat of any other domestic 
animal. 

8. The composition of meat depends to a large extent on the 
breed of the animal, the degree to which it has been fattened, and 
the particular cut of meat in question. However, the muscle fibers 
are made up of protein and contain more protein, mineral salts, or 
ash, and certain substances called extractives, all of which are held 
in solution by water. The younger the animal, the greater is the 
proportion of water and the lower the nutritive value of meat. It 
should be understood, however, that not all of meat is edible 
material; indeed, a large part of it is made up of gristle, bones, 
cartilage, nerves, blood vessels, and connective tissue. The amount 
of these indigestible materials also varies in different animals and 
different cuts, but the average proportion in a piece of meat is 
usually considered to be 15 per cent, of the whole. Because of the 
variation of both the edible and inedible material of meat, a standard 
composition for this food cannot readily be given. However, an 
idea of the average composition of the various kinds can be obtained 
from Fig. 1. 

9. Protein in Meat. — The value of meat as food is due to the 
proteins that it contains. Numerous kinds of protein occur in meat. 



§10 



MEAT 



but the chief varieties are myosin and muscle albumin. The myosin, 
which is the most important protein and occurs in the greatest 



Chuck, medium tal ^S^-t? 



Loin, medium fat 
Ribs, medium fat 
Round, very lean 
Round, medium fat 
Round, very fat 






M ';!! ^ 




Breast, medium fat ^MS^^^ 



Leg, medium fat 
Loin, medium fat 

L^g. medium fal 

Leg, medium fat 



w 



mMs 



Ham, fresh, medium fat ffi^^f 



Ham, smoked 
Loin 

Bacon, medium fat 
Refuse 



te: 



Beef 



Fuel VJuo 
Per Pound 



msi 















m 




m 



735 

1040 

1155 

475 

895 



^11-75 



^gl n.o 



Veal 



Lamb 












MUTTOK 



^^ 







620 
690 



870 



900 



Pork 



ll345 



mm 















m^m^mmm 


';■■; 



1675 
1455 
2795 



k^ 



Walel 

D 



Protein 



Fig. 1 



Fat 



A^h 



2^ 



quantity, hardens after the animal has been killed and the muscles 
have become cold. The tissues then become tough and hard, a con- 



6 MEAT § 10 

dition known as rigor mortis. As meat in this condition is not 
desirable, it should be used before rigor mortis sets in, or else it 
should be put aside until this condition of toughness disappears. 
The length of time necessary for this to occur varies with the size 
of the animal that is killed. It may be from 24 hours to 3 or 
4 days. The disappearance is due to the development of certain 
acids that cause the softening of the tissues. The albumin, which 
is contained in solution in the muscle fibers, is similar in composi- 
tion to the albumen of eggs and milk, and it is affected by the 
application of heat in the cooking processes in much the same way. 

10. Gelatine In Meat. — The gelatine that is found in meat 
is a substance very similar in composition to protein, but it has less 
value as food. It is contained in the connective tissue and can be 
extracted by boiling, being apparent as a jellylike substance after 
the water in which meat has been cooked has cooled. Use is made 
of this material in the preparation of pressed meats and fowl and 
in various salads and other cold-meat dishes. Some kinds of com- 
mercial gelatine are also made from it, being first extracted from the 
meat and then evaporated to form a dry substance. 

11. Fat in Meat. — All meat, no matter how lean it appears, 
contains some fat. As already explained, a part of the fat con- 
tained in meat occurs in small particles so embedded in the muscle 
fibers as not to be readily seen, while the other part occurs in suffi- 
ficient amounts to be visible. In the flesh of some animals, such as 
veal and rabbit, there is almost no visible fat, but in very fat hogs 
or fowls, one-third or one-half of the weight may be fat. Meats 
that are very fat are higher in nutritive value than meats that con- 
tain only a small amount of this substance, as will be observed on 
referring to the table of meat compositions in Fig. 1. However, 
an excessive amount of fat prevents the protein materials from 
digesting normally. 

The quality of fat varies greatly, there being two distinct kinds 
of this material in animals. That which covers or lies between the 
muscles or occurs on the outside of the body just beneath the skin 
has a lower melting point, is less firm, and is of a poorer grade for 
most purposes than that which is found inside the bony structure 
and surrounds the internal organs. The suet of beef is an example 
of this internal fat. 



§ 10 MEAT 7 

Fat is a valuable constituent of food, for it is the most concen- 
trated form in which the fuel elements of food are found. In 
supplying the body with fuel, it serves to maintain the body tem- 
perature and to yield energy in the form of muscular and other 
power. Since this is such a valuable food material, it is important 
that the best possible use be made of all drippings and left-over 
fats and that not even the smallest amount of any kind be wasted. 

12. Carbohydrate in Meat. — In the liver and all muscle 
fibers of animals is stored a small supply of carbohydrate in a form 
that is called glycogen, or muscle sugar. However, there is not 
enough of this substance to be of any appreciable value, and, so far 
as the methods of cookery and the uses of meat as food are con- 
cerned, it is of no importance. 

13. Water In Meat. — The proportion of water in meat varies 
from one-third to three-fourths of the whole, depending on the 
amount of fat the meat contains and the age of the animal. This 
water carries with it the flavor, much of the mineral matter, and 
some food material, so that when the water is removed from the 
tissues these things are to a great extent lost. The methods of 
cookery applied to meat are based on the principle of either retain- 
ing or extracting the water that it contains. The meat in which 
water is retained is more easily chewed and swallowed than that 
which is dry. However, the water contained in flesh has no greater 
value as food than other water. Therefore, as will be seen in 
Fig. 1, the greater the amount of water in a given weight of food, 
the less is its nutritive value. 

14. Minerals in Meat. — Eight or more kinds of minerals 
in sufficient quantities to be of importance in the diet are to be found 
in meat. Lean meat contains the most minerals ; they decrease in 
proportion as the amount of fat increases. These salts assist in the 
building of hard tissues and have a decided effect on the blood. 
They are lost from the tissues of meat by certain methods of cook- 
ery, but as they are in solution in the water in which the meat is 
cooked, they need not be lost to the diet if use is made of this water 
for soups, sauces, and gravies. 

15. Extractives in Meat. — The appetizing flavor of meat is 
due to substances called extractives. The typical flavor that serves 
to distinguish pork from beef or mutton is due to the difference in 



8 MEAT § 10 

the extractives. Although necessary for flavoring, these have no 
nutritive vaJue ; in fact, the body throws them off as waste material 
when they are taken with the food. In some methods of cookery, 
such as broiling and roasting, the extractives are retained, while in 
others, such as those employed for making stews and soups, they 
are drawn out. 

Extractives occur in the greatest quantity in the muscles that the 
animal exercises a great deal and that in reality have become tough. 
Likewise, a certain part of an old animal contains more extractives 
than the same part of a young one. For these reasons a very young 
chicken is broiled while an old one is used for stew, and ribs of beef 
are roasted while the shins are used for soup. 

Meat that is allowed to hang and ripen develops compounds that 
are similar to extractives and that impart additional flavor. A 
ripened steak is usually preferred to one cut from an animal that 
has been killed only a short time. However, as the ripening is in 
reality a decomposition process, the meat is said to become "high" 
if it is allowed to hang too long. 



PURCHASE AND CARE OF MEAT 

16. Purchase of Meat. — Of all the money that is spent for 
food in the United States nearly one-third is spent for meat. This 
proportion is greater than that of any European country and is 
probably more than is necessary to provide diets that are properly 
balanced. If it is found that the meat bill is running too high, one 
or more of several things may be the cause. The one who does the 
purchasing may not understand the buying of meat, the cheaper cuts 
may not be used because of a lack of knowledge as to how they 
should be prepared to make them appetizing, or more meat may 
be served than is necessary to supply the needs of the family. 

Much of this difficulty can be overcome if the person purchasing 
meat goes to the market personally to see the meat cut and weighed 
instead of telephoning the order. It is true, of course, that the 
method of cutting an animal varies in different parts of the country, 
as does also the naming of the different pieces. However, this need 
give the housewife no concern, for the dealer from whom the meat 
is purchased is usually willing to supply any information that is 
desired about the cutting of meat and the best use for certain pieces,. 



§ 10 MEAT 9 

In fact, if the butcher is competent, this is a very good source from 
which to obtain a knowledge of such matters. 

Another way in which to reduce the meat bill is to utilize the 
trimmings of bone and fat from pieces of meat. In most cases, 
these are of no value to the butcher, so that if a request for them is 
made, he will, as a rule, be glad to wrap them up with the meat 
that is purchased. They are of considerable value to the housewife, 
for the bones may go into the stock pot, while the fat, if it is tried 
out, can be used for many things. 

17. The quantity of meat to purchase depends, of course, on the 
number of persons that are to be served with it. However, it is 
often a good plan to purchase a larger piece than is required for a 
single meal and then use what remains for another meal. For 
instance, a large roast is always better than a small one, because it 
does not dry out in the process of cookery and the part that remains 
after one meal may be served cold in slices or used for making some 
other dish, such as meat pie or hash. Such a plan also saves both 
time and fuel, because sufficient meat for several meals may be 
cooked at one time. 

In purchasing meat, there are certain pieces that should never be 
asked for by the pound or by the price. For instance, the house- 
wife should not say to the butcher, "Give me 2 pounds of porter- 
house steak," nor should she say, "Give me 25 cents worth of 
chops." Steak should be bought by the cut, and the thickness that 
is desired should be designated. For example, the housewife may 
ask for an inch-thick sirloin steak, a 2-inch porterhouse steak, and 
so on. Chops should be bought according to the number of persons 
that are to be served, usually a chop to a person being quite suffi- 
cient. Rib roasts should be bought by designating the number of 
ribs. Thus, the housewife may ask for a rib roast containing two, 
three, four, or more ribs, depending on the size desired. Roasts 
from other parts of beef, such as chuck or rump roasts, may be cut 
into chunks of almost any desirable size without working a disad- 
vantage to either the butcher or the customer, and may therefore be 
bought by the pound. Round bought for steaks should be purchased 
by the cut, as are other steaks ; or, if an entire cut is too large, it 
may be purchased as upper round or lower round, but the price 
paid should vary with the piece that is purchased. Round bought 
for roasts, however, may be purchased by the pound. 



10 MEAT § 10 

18. Care of Meat in the Market. — ^Animal foods decompose 
more readily than any other kind, and the products of their decom- 
position are extremely dangerous to the health. It is therefore a 
serious matter when everything that comes in contact with meat is 
not clean. Regarding the proper care of meat, the sanitary condition 
of the market is the first consideration. The light and ventilation of 
the room and the cleanliness of the walls, floors, tables, counters, and 
other equipment are points of the greatest importance and should 
be noted by the housewife when she is purchasing meat. Whether 
the windows and doors are screened and all the meat is carefully 
covered during the fly season are also matters that should not be 
overlooked. Then, too, the cleanliness and physical condition of 
the persons who handle the meat should be of as great concern as 
the sanitary condition of the market. The housewife who desires 
to supply her family with the safest and cleanest meat should 
endeavor to purchase it in markets where all the points pertaining 
to the sanitary condition are as ideal as possible. If she is at all 
doubtful as to the freshness and cleanliness of what is sold to her, 
she should give it thorough cooking in the process of preparation so 
that no harm will be done to the persons who are to eat it. 

19. Care of Meat in the Home. — Because of the perishable 
nature of meat, the care given it in the market must be continued 
in the home in order that no deterioration may take place before it 
is cooked. This is not much of a problem during cold weather, but 
through the summer months a cool place in which to keep it must 
be provided unless the meat can be cooked very soon after it is 
delivered. Meat that must be shipped long distances is frozen 
before it is shipped and is kept frozen until just before it is used. 
If such meat is still frozen when it enters the home, it should not 
be put into a warm place, for then it will thaw too quickly. Instead, 
it should be put in the refrigerator or in some place where the 
temperature is a few degrees above freezing point, so that it will 
thaw slowly and still remain too cold for bacteria to become active. 

Even if meat is not frozen, it must receive proper attention after 
it enters the home. As soon as it is received, it should be removed 
from the wrapping paper or the wooden or cardboard dish in which 
it is delivered. If the meat has not been purchased personally, it 
is advisable to weigh it in order to verify the butcher's bill. When 
the housewife is satisfied about the weight, she should place the 



§ 10 MEAT 11 

meat in an earthenware, china, or enameled bowl, cover it, and then 
put it away in the coolest available place until it is used. Some 
persons put salt on meat when they desire to keep it, but this prac- 
tice should be avoided, as salt draws out the juices from raw meat 
and hardens the tissues to a certain extent. 

If such precautions are taken with meat, it will be in good con- 
dition when it is to be cooked. However, before any cooking 
method is applied to it, it should always be wiped with a clean, 
damp cloth. In addition, all fat should be removed, except just 
enough to assist in cooking. the meat and give it a good flavor. Bctne 
or tough portions may also be removed if they can be used to better 
advantage for soups or stews. 



COOKING OF MEAT 



PURPOSES OF COOKING MEAT 

120. It is in the preparation of food, and of meat in particular, that 
one of the marked differences between uncivilized and civilized man 
is evident. Raw meat, which is preferred by the savage, does not 
appeal to the appetite of most civilized persons; in fact, to the 
majority of them the idea of using it for food is disgusting. There- 
fore, civilized man prepares his meat before eating it, and the higher 
his culture, the more perfect are his methods of preparation. 

While it is probably true that most of the methods of cookery 
render meat less easy to digest than in its raw condition, this dis- 
advantage is offset by the several purposes for which this food is 
cooked. Meat is cooked chiefly to loosen and soften the connective 
tissue and thus cause the muscle tissues to be exposed more fully 
to the action of the digestive juices. Another important reason for 
cooking meat is that subjecting it to the action of heat helps to kill 
bacteria and parasites. In addition, meat is cooked to make it more 
attractive to the eye and to develop and improve its flavor. 



METHODS OF COOKING MEAT 

21. The result desired when meat is cooked has much to do 
with the method of cookery to choose, for different methods pro- 
duce different results. To understand this, it will be necessary to 

WI-C3-5 



12 MEAT § 10 

know just what the action of cooking is on the material that meat 
contains. When raw meat is cut, the tiny meat fibers are laid open, 
with the result that, in the application of the cooking process, the 
albuminous material either is lost, or, like the albumen of eggs, is 
coagulated, or hardened, and thus retained. Therefore, before pre- 
paring a piece of meat, the housewife should determine which of 
these two things she wishes to accomplish and then proceed to carry 
out the process intelligently. 

The methods of cookery that may be applied to meat include broil- 
ing, pan broiling, roasting, stewing or simmering, braizing, frying, 
sauteing, and fricasseeing. All of these methods are explained in 
a general way in Essentials of Cookery, Part 1, but explanations 
of them as they apply to meat are here given in order to acquaint 
the housewife with the advantages and disadvantages of the various 
ways by which this food can be prepared. 

22. Broiling: and Pan Broiling'. — Only such cuts of meats 
as require short cooking can be prepared by the methods of broiling 
and pan broiling. To carry out these methods successfully, severe 
heat must be applied to the surface of the meat so that the albumin 
in the ends of the muscle fibers may be coagulated at once. This 
presents, during the remainder of the preparation, a loss of the 
meat juices. 

Meat to which either of these methods is applied will be indiges- 
tible on the surface and many times almost uncooked in the center, 
as in the case of rare steak. Such meat, however, is more digestible 
than thin pieces that are thoroughly cooked at the very high temper- 
ature required for broiling. 

23. Roasting:. — The process of roasting, either in the oven or 
in a pot on top of the stove, to be properly done, requires that the 
piece of meat to be roasted must first be seared over the entire sur- 
face by the application of severe heat. In the case of a pot roast, the 
searing can be done conveniently in the pot before the pot-roasting 
process begins. If the meat is to be roasted in the oven, it may be 
seared first in a pan on top of the stove. However, it may be seared 
to some extent by placing it in a very hot oven and turning it over 
so that all the surface is exposed. Then, to continue the roasting 
process, the temperature must be lowered just a little. 

The roasting pan may be of any desirable size and shape that is 
convenient and sufficiently large to accommodate the meat to be 



§10 



MEAT 



13 




prepared. A pan like that shown in Fig. 2 is both convenient and 
satisfactory. It is provided with a cover that fits tight. In this 
cover, as shown, is an opening that may be closed or opened so as 
to regulate the amount of moisture inside the pan. In the bottom 
of the pan is a rack upon which the meat may rest. 

24. To prepare meat for roasting, flour should be sprinkled or 
rubbed over its lean surface before it is put in the pan. This forms 
a paste that cooks into a crust and prevents the loss of juices from 
the meat. In roasting, the heat 
is applied longer and more slowly 
than in broiling or frying, so 
that there is more possibility for 
the connective tissue beneath the 
surface to soften. The surface 
is, however, as indigestible as 
that of broiled meat. 

An important point for every 
housewife to remember in this 
connection is that the larger the 
roast the slower should be the ^'°- ^ 

fire. This is due to the fact that long before the heat could penetrate 
to the center, the outside would be burned. A small roast, however, 
will be more delicious if it is prepared with a very hot fire, for then 
the juices will not have a chance to evaporate and the tissues will 
be more moist and tasty. 

25. Frying and Sauteing. — ^When meat is fried or sauted, 
that is, brought directly in contact with hot fat, it is made doubly 
indigestible, because of the hardening of the surface tissues and the 
indigestibility of the fat that penetrates these tissues. This is 
especially true of meat that is sauted slowly in a small quantity of 
hot fat. Much of this difficulty can be overcome, however, if meat 
prepared by these methods, like that which is broiled or roasted, is 
subjected quickly to intense heat. In addition, the fat used for 
cooking should be made hot before the meat is put into it. 

26. Boiling. — To boil meat means to cook it a long time in 
water at a temperature of 212 degrees Fahrenheit. This method 
of preparing meat is not strongly advocated, for there is seldom a 
time when better results cannot be obtained by cooking meat at a 
lower temperature than boiling point. The best plan is to bring the 



14 MEAT § 10 

meat to the boiling point, allow it to boil for a short time, and then 
reduce the temperature so that the meat will simmer for the remain- 
der of the cooking. 

In cooking meat by boiling, a grayish scum appears on the surface 
just before the boiling point is reached. This scum is caused by 
the gradual extraction of a part of the soluble albumin that is present 
in the hollow fibers of the muscle tissue. After its extraction, it is 
coagulated by the heat in the water. As it coagulates and rises, it 
carries with it to the top particles of dirt and other foreign material 
present in the water or on the surface of the meat. In addition, this 
scum contains a little blood, which is extracted and coagulated and 
which tends to make it grayish in color. Such scum should be 
skimmed off, as it is unappetizing in appearance. 

27. Whether the meat should be put into cold water or boiling 
water depends on the result that is desired. It is impossible to make 
a rich, tasty broth and at the same time have a juicy, well-flavored 
piece of boiled meat. If meat is cooked for the purpose of making 
soup or broth, it should be put into cold water and then brought to a 
boil. By this method, some of the nutritive material and much of 
the flavoring substance will be drawn out before the water becomes 
hot enough to harden them. However, in case only the meat is to be 
used, it should be plunged directly into boiling water in order to 
coagulate the surface at once, as in the application of dry heat. If 
it is allowed to boil for 10 minutes or so and the temperature then 
reduced, the coating that is formed will prevent the nutritive material 
and the flavor from being lost to any great extent. But if the action 
of the boiling water is permitted to continue during the entire time 
of cooking, the tissues will become tough and dry. 

28. Stewing: or Simmering. — The cheap cuts of meat, which 
contain a great deal of flavor and are so likely to be tough, cannot 
be prepared by the quick methods of cookery nor by the application 
of high temperature, for the result would be a tough, indigestible, 
and unpalatable dish. The long, slow cooking at a temperature 
lower than boiling point, which is known as stewing or simmering, 
should be applied. In fact, no better method for the preparation of 
tough pieces of meat and old fowl can be found than this process, 
for by it the connective tissue and the muscle fibers are softened. 
If the method is carried out in a tightly closed vessel and only 
a small amount of liquid is used, there is no appreciable loss of 



§ 10 MEAT 15 

flavor except that carried into the liquid in which the meat cooks. 
But since such Hquid is always used, the meat being usually served 
in it, as in the case of stews, there is no actual loss. 

To secure the best results in the use of this method, the jneat 
should be cut into small pieces so as to expose as much surface as 
possible. Then the pieces should be put into cold water rather than 
hot, in order that much of the juices and flavoring materials may be 
dissolved. When this has been accomplished, the temperature should 
be gradually raised until it nearly reaches the boiling point. If it is 
kept at this point for several hours, the meat will become tender and 
juicy and a rich, tasty broth will also be obtained. 

29. Braizing. — Meat cooked by the method of braizing, whic'h 
is in reality a combination of stewing and baking, is first subjected 
to the intense dry heat of the oven and then cooked slowly in the 
steam of the water that surrounds it. To cook meat in this way, a 
pan must be used that will permit the meat to be raised on a rack 
that extends above a small quantity of water. By this method a 
certain amount of juice from the meat is taken up by the water, 
but the connective tissue is well softened unless the cooking is done 
at too high a temperature. 

30. Frieasseeing. — As has already been learned, fricasseemg 
is a combination of sauteing and stewing. The sauteing coagulates 
the surface proteins and prevents, to some extent, the loss of flavor 
that would occur in the subsequent stewing if the surface were not 
hardened. To produce a tender, tasty dish, f ricasseeing should be a 
long, slow process. This method is seldom applied to tender, expen- 
sive cuts of meat and to young chickens, but is used for fowl and for 
pieces of meat that would not make appetizing dishes if prepared by 
a quicker method. 

TIME REQUIRED FOR COOKING MEAT 

31. The length of time required for cooking various kinds of 
meat is usually puzzling to those inexperienced in cookery. The 
difference between a dry, hard beef roast and a tender, moist, juicy 
one is due to the length of time allowed for cooking. Overdone 
meats of any kind are not likely to be tasty. Therefore, it should 
be remembered that when dry heat is used, as in baking, roasting, 
broiling, etc., the longer the heat is applied the greater will be the 
evaporation of moisture and the consequent shrinkage in the meat. 



16 MEAT § 10 

A general rule for cooking meat in the oven is to allow 15 minutes 
for each pound and 15 minutes extra. If it is to be cooked by broil- 
ing, allow 10 minutes for each pound and 10 minutes extra ; by boil- 
ing, 20 minutes for each pound and 20 minutes extra; and by 
simmering, 30 minutes for each pound. In Table I is given the 
number of minutes generally allowed for cooking 1 pound of each 
of the various cuts of beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and pork by the 
different cookery methods. This table should be referred to in 
studying the two Sections pertaining to meat. 

TABLE I 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKIjrG MEATS 

-.J ~ r- -Kir Time Per Pound 

Name of Cut Cookery Method ^ 

Beef 

Round Roasting 12 to 15 

Ribs Roasting, well done 12 to IS 

Ribs Roasting, rare 8 to 10 

Rump Roasting 12 to 15 

Sirloin Roasting, rare 8 to 10 

Rolled roast Roasting 12 to 15 

Steaks Broiling, well done 12 to 15 

Steaks Broiling, rare 8 to 10 

Fresh beef Boiling 20 to 25 

Corned beef Boiling 25 to 30 

Any cut Simmering 30 

Chuck Braizing 25 to 30 

Veal 

Leg Roasting 20 

Chops or steak Broiling 8 to 30 

Shoulder Braizing 30 to 40 

Mutton 

Leg Roasting IS to 20 

Shoulder Roasting 15 to 20 

Leg Braizing 40 to SO 

Leg Boiling IS to 25 

Chops Broiling 10 to 12 

Lamb 

Loin or saddle Roasting 15 to 20 

Leg Roasting IS to 20 

Chops Broiling 8 to 10 

Pork 

Shoulder or ribs Roasting 20 to 25 

Ham feoiled 20 to 30 

Chops Broriea 8 to 10 



§ 10 MEAT 17 



BEEF 



GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF BEEF 

32. As is generally known, beef is the flesh of a slaughtered 
steer, cow, or other adult bovine animal. These animals may be sold 
to be slaughtered as young as 1^ to 2 years old, but beef of the best 
quality is obtained from them when they are from 3 to 4 years of 
age. Ranging from the highest quality down to the lowest, beef 
is designated by the butcher as prime, extra fancy, fancy, extra 
choice, choice, good, and poor. In a market where trade is large and 
varied, it is possible to make such use of meat as to get a higher price 
for the better qualities than can be obtained in other markets. 

33. When the quality of beef is to be determined, the amount, 
quality, and color of the flesh, bone, and fat must be considered. 
The surface of a freshly cut piece of beef should be bright red in 
color. When it is exposed to the air for some time, the action of the 
air on the blood causes it to become darker, but even this color should 
be a good clear red. Any unusual color is looked on with suspicion 
by a person who uederstands the requirements of good meat. To 
obtain beef of the best quality, it should be cut crosswise of the 
fiber. In fact, the way in which meat is cut determines to a great 
extent the difference between tender and tough meat and, conse- 
quently, the price that is charged. This difference can be readily 
seen by examining the surface of a cut. It will be noted that the 
tender parts are made up of short fibers that are cut directly across 
at right angles with the surface of the meat, while the tougher parts 
contain long fibers that run either slanting or almost parallel to the 
surface. 

34. The amount of bone and cartilage m proportion to meat in 
a cut of beef usually makes a difference in price and determines the 
usefulness of the piece to the housewife. Therefore, these are 
matters that should be carefully considered. For instance, a certain 
cut of beef that is suitable for a roast may cost a few cents less than 
another cut, but if its proportion of bone to meat is greater than in 



18 



MEAT 



§10 



the more expensive piece, nothing is gained by purchasing it. Bones, 
however, possess some value and can be utilized in various ways. 
Those containing marrow, which is the soft tissue found in the 
cavities of bones and composed largely of fat, are more valuable 
for soup making and for stews and gravies than are solid bones. 

In young beef in good condition, the fat is creamy white in color. 
However, as the animal grows older, the color grows darker until 
it becomes a deep yellow. 

Besides the flesh, bone, and fat, the general shape and thick- 
ness of a piece of beef should be noted when its quality is to be 
determined. In addition, its adaptability to the purpose for which 
it is selected and the method of cookery to be used in its preparation 
are also points that should not be overlooked. 



CUTS OF BEEF 



METHOD OF OBTAINING CUTS 



35. With the general characteristics of beef well in mind, the 
housewife is prepared to learn of the way in which the animal is 




Fig. 3 



cut to produce the different pieces that she sees in the butcher shop 
and the names that are given to the various cuts. The cutting of 



§io 



MEAT 



19 



the animal, as well as the naming of the pieces, varies in dififerent 
localities, but the difference is not sufficient to be confusing. There- 
fore, if the information here given is thoroughly mastered, the 
housewife will be able to select meat intelligently in whatever section 





of the country she may reside. An important point for her to 
remember concerning meat of any kind is that the cheaper cuts are 
found near the neck, legs, and shins, and that the pieces increase in 
price as they go toward the back. 



yO MEAT § 10 

36. The general method of cutting up a whole beef into large 
cuts is shown in Fig. 3. After the head, feet, and intestines are 
removed, the carcass is cut down along the spine and divided into 
halves. Each half includes an entire side and is known as a side of 
beef. Then each side is divided into fore and hind quarters along 
the diagonal line that occurs about midway between the front and the 
back. It is in this form that the butcher usually receives the beef. 
He first separates it into the large pieces here indicated and then 
cuts these pieces into numerous smaller ones having names that 
indicate their location. For instance, the piece marked a includes 
the chuck; b, the ribs; c, the loin; d, the round; e, the flank; f, the 
plate; and g, the shin. 

37. The cuts that are obtained from these larger pieces are 
shown in Fig. 4. For instance, from the chuck, as illustrated in (a), 
are secured numerous cuts, including the neck, shoulder clod, shoul- 
der, and chuck ribs. The same is true of the other pieces, as a 
careful study of these illustrations will reveal. Besides indicating 
the various cuts, each one of these illustrations serves an additional 
purpose. From (a), which shows the skeleton of the beef, the 
amount and the shape of the bone that the various cuts contain can 
be readily observed. From (fc), which shows the directions in which 
the surface muscle fibers run, can be told whether the cutting of the 
pieces is done across the fibers or in the same direction as the fibers. 
Both of these matters are of such importance to the housewife that 
constant reference to these illustrations should be made until the 
points that they serve to indicate are thoroughly understood. 



NAMES AND TJSES OF CUTS 

38. So that a still better idea may be formed of the pieces into 
which a side of beef may be cut, reference should be made to 
Fig. 5. The heavy line through the center shows where the side is 
divided in order to cut it into the fore and hind quarters. As will 
be observed, the fore quarter includes the chuck, prime ribs, and 
whole plate, and the hind quarter, the loin and the round, each of 
these large pieces being indicated by a different color. 

To make these large pieces of a size suitable for sale to the con- 
sumer, the butcher cuts each one of them into still smaller pieces, 
all of which are indicated in the illustration. The names of these 



§10 



MEAT 



21 



cuts, together with their respective uses, and the names of the beef 
organs and their uses, are given in Table II. 

TABLE II 

cuts obtained frosi a side op beep and their uses 

Name of 



Large Piece 



Chuck 



Name of Cut 



Uses of Cuts 



Prime Ribs.. 
Whole Plate. 



Loin 



Round 



Beef Organs. 



Neck Soups, broths, stews 

Shoulder clod Soups, broths, stews, boiling, 

corning 
Ribs (11th, 12th, and 13th). Brown stews, braizing, poor roasts 

Ribs (9th and 10th) Braizing, roasts 

Shoulder Soups, stews, corning, roast 

Cross-ribs Roast 

Brisket Soups, stews, corning 

Shin - Soups 

Ribs (1st to 8th, inclusive) .Roasts 

Plate Soups, stews, corning 

Navel Soups, stews, corning 

Short steak Steaks, roasts 

Porterhouse cuts Steaks, roasts 

Hip-bone steak Steaks, roasts 

Flat-bone steak Steaks, roasts 

Round-bone steak Steaks, roasts 

Sirloin Steaks 

Top sirloin Roasts 

Flank Rolled steak, braizing, boiling 

Tenderloin Roast 

Rump Roasts, corning 

Upper round Steaks, roasts 

Lower round Steaks, pot roasts, stews 

Vein Stews, soups 

Shank Soups 

Liver Broiling, frying 

Heart Baking, braizing 

Tongue Boiling, baking, braizing 

Tail Soup 



39. As will be observed from Fig. 5, the ribs are numbered in 
the opposite direction from the way in which they are ordinarily 
counted ; that is, the first rib in a cut of beef is the one farthest from 
the head and the thirteenth is the one just back of the neck. The 
first and second ribs are called the hack ribs; the third, fourth, fifth, 
and sixth, the middle ribs. To prepare the ribs for sale, they are 
usually cut into pieces that contain two ribs, the first and second 



22 MEAT § 10 

ribs being known as the first cut, the third and fourth as the second 
cut, etc. After being sawed across, the rib bones are either left in 
to make a standing rib roast or taken out and the meat then rolled 
and fastened together with skewers to make a rolled roast. Skewers, 
which are long wooden or metal pins that may be pushed through 
meat to fasten it together, will be found useful to the housewife in 
preparing many cuts of meat for cooking. They may usually be 
obtained at a meat market or a hardware store. 

40. Certain of the organs of beef are utilized to a considerable 
extent, so that while they cannot be shown in Fig. 5, they are 
included in Table II. The heart and the tongue are valuable both 
because they are economical and because they add variety to the 
meat diet of the family. The tongue, either smoked or fresh, may 
be boiled and then served hot, or it may be pickled in vinegar and 
served cold. The heart may be prepared in the same way, or it may 
be stuffed and then baked. The tail of beef makes excellent soup 
and is much used for this purpose. 



COOKING OF BEEF 



STBAKS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

41. Steaks Obtained From the Loin. — The way in which a 
loin of beef is cut into steaks is shown in Fig. 6. From a to & are 
cut Delmonico steaks; from b to c, porterhouse steaks; from c to d, 
hip-bone steaks; from d to e, flat-bone steaks; and from e to f, sir- 
loin steaks. The loin is cut from the rump at / and from the flank 
and plate at h to /. When steaks are cut from the flesh of animals 
in good condition, they are all very tender and may be used for the 
quick methods of cookery, such as broiling. A very good idea of 
what each of these steaks looks like can be obtained from Figs. 7 
to 11, inclusive. Each of these illustrations shows the entire section 
of steak, as well as one steak cut from the piece. 

Delmonico steak, which is shown in Fig. 7, is the smallest 
steak that can be cut from the loin and is therefore an excellent cut 
for a small family. It contains little or no tenderloin. Sometimes 
Aiis steak is wrongly called a club steak, but no confusion will result 



24 



MEAT 



§10 



if it is remembered that a club steak is a porterhouse steak that has 
most of the bone and the flank end, or "tail," removed. 

Porterliouse steak, which is illustrated in Fig 8, contains more 




Fig. 7 



tenderloin than any other steak. This steak also being small in size 
is a very good cut for a small number of persons. 

Hip-l)one steak, shown in Fig. 9, contains a good-sized piece of 




Fig. 8 



tenderloin. Steak of this kind finds much favor, as it can be served 
quite advantageously. 

Flat-bone steak, as shown in Fig. 10, has a large bone, but it 
also contains a considerable amount of fairly solid meat. When a 



§10 



MEAT 



25 



large number of persons are to be served, this is a very good steak 
to select. 

Sirloin steals is shown in Fig. 11. As will be observed, this 
steak contains more solid meat than any of the other steaks cut from 




Fig. 9 



the loin. For this reason, it serves a large number of persons more 
advantageously than the others do. 

42. Steaks Obtained. From tlie Round. — ^While the steaks 




Fig. 10 



cut from the loin are usually preferred because of their tenderness, 
those cut from the upper round and across the rump, are very desir- 
able for many purposes. If these are not so tender as is desired, the 



26 



MEAT 



§10 



surface may be chopped with a dull knife in order to make tiny cuts 
through the fibers, or it may be pounded with some blunt object, as, 
for instance, a wooden potato masher. In Fig. 12, the entire round 




Fig. 11 



and the way it is sometimes subdivided into the upper and lower 
round are shown. What is known as a round steak is a slice that 
is cut across the entire round. However, such a steak is often cut 




Fig. 12 



into two parts where the line dividing the round is shown, and 
either the upper or the lower piece may be purchased. The upper 
round is the better piece and brings a higher price than the whole 



§ 10 MEAT 27 

round or the lower round including the vein. The quick methods 
of cookery may be applied to the more desirable cuts of the round, 
but the lower round or the vein is generally used for roasting, braiz- 
ing, or stewing. 

43. Broiled Beefsteak. — As has already been explained, the 
steaks cut from the loin are the ones that are generally used for 
broiling. When one of these steaks is to be broiled, it should never 
be less than 1 inch thick, but it may be from 1 to 2^ inches in thick- 
ness, according to the preference of the persons for whom it is pre- 
pared. As the flank end, or "tail," of such steaks is always tough, 
it should be cut oflE before cooking and utilized in the making of 
soups and such dishes as require chopped meats. In addition, all- 
superfluous fat should be removed and then tried out. Beef fat, 
especially if it is mixed with lard or other fats, makes excellent 
shortening ; likewise, it may be used for sauteing various foods. 

When a steak has been prepared in this manner, wipe it carefully 
with a clean, damp cloth. Heat the broiler very hot and grease the 
rack with a little of the beef fat. Then place the steak on the rack, 
expose it directly to the rays of a very hot fire, and turn it every 
10 seconds until each side has been exposed several times to the 
blaze. This is done in order to sear the entire surface and thus 
prevent the loss of the juice. When the surface is sufficiently 
seared, lower the fire or move the steak to a cooler place on the 
stove and then, turning it frequently, allow it to cook more slowly 
until it reaches the desired condition. The broiling of a steak 
requires from 10 to 20 minutes, depending on its thickness and 
whether it is preferred well done or rare. Place the broiled steak 
on a hot platter, dot it with butter, season it with salt and pepper, 
and serve at once. 

44. Pan-Broiled Steak. — If it is impossible to prepare the 
steak in a broiler, it may be pan-broiled. In fact, this is a very 
satisfactory way to cook any of the tender cuts. To carry out this 
method, place a heavy frying pan directly over the fire and allow it 
to become so hot that the fat will smoke when put into it. Grease 
the pan with a small piece of the beef fat, just enough to prevent 
the steak from sticking fast. Put the steak into the hot pan and 
turn it as soon as it is seared on the side that touches the pan. After 
it is seared on the other side, turn it again and continue to turn it 
frequently until it has broiled for about 15 minutes. When it is 

WI— C3— 6 



28 



MEAT 



§10 



cooked sufficiently to serve, dot it with butter and season it with salt 
and pepper. Serve hot. 

45. Rolled Steak, or Mock Duck. — To have a delicious 
meat, it is not always necessary to secure the tender, expensive cuts, 
for excellent dishes can be prepared from the cheaper pieces. For 
instance, steaks cut from the entire round or thin cuts from the 
rump can be filled with a stuffing and then rolled to make rolled 
steak, or mock duck. This is an extremely appetizing dish and 
affords the housewife a chance to give her family a pleasing variety 
in the way of meat. The steak used for this purpose should first be 
broiled in the way explained in Art. 43. Then it should be filled 
with a stuffing made as follows : 

Stuffing for Rolled Steak 
1 qt. stale bread crumbs 1 c. stewed tomatoes 

1 small onion 1 Tb. salt 

2 Tb. butter i Tb. pepper 
1 c. hot water 

Mix all together. Pile on top of the broiled steak and roll the 
steak so that the edges lap over each other and the dressing is 




Fig. 13 

completely covered. Fasten together with skewers or tie by wrap- 
ping a cord around the roll. Strips of bacon or salt pork tied to 
the outside or fastened with small skewers improve the flavor of 
the meat. Place in a roasting pan and bake in a hot oven until the 
steak is thoroughly baked. This will require not less than 40 min- 
utes. Cut into slices and serve lioL 



§ 10 MEAT 29 

46. Skirt Steak. — Lying inside the ribs and extending from 
the second or third rib to the breast bone is a thin strip of muscle 
known as a skirt steak. This is removed before the ribs are cut for 
roasts, and, as shown in Fig. 13, is sHt through the center with a long, 
sharp knife to form a pocket into which stuffing can be put. As a 
skirt steak is not expensive and has excellent flavor, it is a very 
desirable piece of meat. 

To prepare such a steak for the table, stuff it with the stuffing 
given for rolled steak in Art. 45, and then fasten the edges together 
with skewers. Bake in a hot oven until the steak is well done. 
Serve hot. 

47. Swiss Steak. — Another very appetizing dish that can be 
made from the cheaper steaks is Swiss steak. To be most satis- 
factory, the steak used for this purpose should be about an inch 
thick. 

Pound as much dry flour as possible into both sides of the steak 
by means of a wooden potato masher. Then brown it on both sides 
in a hot frying pan with some of the beef fat. When it is thoroughly 
browned, pour a cup of hot water over it, cover the pan tight, and 
remove to the back of the stove. Have just enough water on the 
steak and apply just enough heat to keep it simmering very slowly 
for about ^ hour. As the meat cooks, the water will form a gravy 
by becoming thickened with the flour that has been pounded into 
the steak. Serve the steak with this gravy. 

48. Hamburger S'£eak. — The tougher pieces of beef, such as 
the flank ends of the steak and parts of the rump, the round, and 
the chuck, may be ground fine by being forced through a food 
chopper. Such meat is very frequently combined with egg and then 
formed into small cakes or patties to make Hamburger steak. 
Besides providing a way to utilize pieces of meat that might other- 
wise be wasted, this dish affords variety to the diet. 

Hamburger Steak 

(SufBcient to Serve Four) 

1 lb. chopped beef 1 small onion, chopped 

14 tsp. salt 1 egg (if desired) 

I tsp. pepper 
Mix the ingredients thoroughly and shape into thin patties. Cook 
by broiling in a pan placed in the broiler or by pan-broiling in a hot, 
well-greased frying pan. Spread with butter when ready to serve. 



30 MEAT § 10 

49. Planked Steak. — A dish that the housewife generally con- 
siders too complicated for her, but that may very readily be prepared 
in the home, is planked steak. Such a steak gets its name from the 
fact that a part of its cooking is done on a hardwood plank, and 
that the steak, together with vegetables of various kinds, is served 
on the plank. Potatoes are always used as one of the vegetables 
that are combined with planked steak, but besides them almost any 
combination or variety of vegetables may be used as a garnish. 
Asparagus tips, string beans, peas, tiny onions, small carrots, mush- 
rooms, cauliflower, stuffed peppers, and stuffed tomatoes are the 
vegetables from which a selection is usually made. When a tender 
steak is selected for this purpose and is properly cooked, and when 
the vegetables are well prepared and artistically arranged, no dish 
can be found that appeals more to the eye and the taste. 

To prepare this dish, broil or pan-broil one of the better cuts of 
steak for about 8 minutes. Butter the plank, place the steak on the 
center of it and season with salt and pepper. Mash potatoes and to 
each 2 cupfuls use 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, and one egg. After these materials have been mixed well 
into the potatoes, arrange a border of potatoes around the edge of 
the plank. Then garnish the steak with whatever vegetables have 
been selected. Care should be taken to see that these are properly 
cooked and well seasoned. If onions, mushrooms, or carrots are 
used, it is well to saute them in butter after they are thoroughly 
cooked. With the steak thus prepared, place the plank under the 
broiler or in a hot oven and allow it to remain there long enough to 
brown the potatoes, cook the steak a little more, and thoroughly heat 
all the vegetables. 

50. "Vegetables Served With Steak. — If an attractive, as 
well as a tasty, dish is desired and the housewife has not sufficient 
time nor the facilities to prepare a planked steak, a good plan is to 
saute a vegetable of some kind and serve it over the steak. For this 
purpose numerous vegetables are suitable, but onions, small mush- 
rooms, and sliced tomatoes are especially desirable. When onions 
are used, they should be sliced thin and then sauted in butter until 
they are soft and brown. Small mushrooms may be prepared in 
the same way, or they may be sauted in the fat that remains in the 
pan after the steak has been removed. Tomatoes that are served 
over steak should be sliced, rolled in crumbs, and then sauted. 



§10 



MEAT 



31 



ROASTS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

51. Fillet of Beef. — A large variety of roasts can be obtained 
from a side of beef, but by far the most delicious one is the tender- 
loin, or fillet of beef. This is a long strip of meat lying directly 




Fig. 14 



under the chine, or back bone. It is either taken out as a whole, or it 
is left in the loin to be cut as a part of the steaks that are obtained 
from this section. When it is removed in a whole piece, as shown 
in Fig. 14, the steaks that remain in the loin are not so desirable 




Fig. is 

and do not bring such a good price, because the most tender part of 
each of them is removed. 

Two different methods of cookery are usually applied to the 
tenderloin of beef. Very often, as Fig. 14 shows, it is cut into slices 
about 2 inches thick and then broiled, when it is called broiled fillet, 



32 



MEAT 



§10 



or fillet mignon. If it is not treated in this way, the whole tender- 
loin is roasted after being rolled, or larded, with salt pork to supply 
the fat that it lacks. Whichever way it is cooked, the tenderloin 
always proves to be an exceptionally tender and delicious cut of 




Fig. 16 

beef. However, it is the most expensive piece that can be bought, 
and so is not recommended when economy must be practiced. 

52. Chuck Roasts. — ^While the pieces cut from the chuck 
are not so desirable as those obtained from the loin or as the prime 
ribs, still the chuck yields very good roasts, as Figs. 15 and 16 
show. The roast shown in Fig. 15 is the piece just back of the 
shoulder, and that illustrated in Fig. 16 is cut from the ribs in the 
chuck. These pieces are of a fairly good quality and if a roast as 




Fig. 17 

large as 8 or 10 pounds is desired, they make an economical one to 
purchase. 

53. Rib Roasts. — Directly back of the chuclv, as has already 
been learned, are the prime ribs. From this part of the beef, which 
is shown in Figs. 17 and 18, the best rib roasts are secured. Fig. 17 
shows the ribs cut off at about the eighth rib and Fig. 18 shows the 



§ 10 MEAT 33 

same set turned around so that the cut surface is at about the first 




Fig. 18 



rib, where the best cuts occur. To prepare this piece for roasting, 
it is often cut around the dark line shown in Fig. 18, and after the 




Fig. 19 

back bone and ribs have been removed, is rolled into a roll of solid 
meat. The thin lower part that is cut 
off is used for boiling. 



^»fefe^iifc&.-:sw^,j^^^^ /, 



54. When only a small roast is 
wanted, a single rib, such as is shown 
in Fig. 19, is often used. In a roast of 
this kind, the bone is not removed, but, 
as will be observed, is sawed in half. 
Such a roast is called a standing rib 
roast. Another small roast, called a 
porterhouse roast, is illustrated in 
Fig. 20. This is obtained by cutting 
a porterhouse steak rather thick. It is therefore a very tender and 



Fig. 20 



34 MEAT § 10 

delicious, although somewhat expensive, roast. Other parts of the 
loin may also be cut for roasts, the portion from which sirloin 
steaks are cut making large and very delicious roasts. 

55. Rump Roasts. — Between the loin and the bottom round 
lies the rump, and from this may be cut roasts of different kinds. 
The entire rump with its cut surface next to the round is shown in 
Fig. 21, and the various pieces into which the rump may be cut are 
illustrated in Figs. 22 to 25. These roasts have a very good flavor 
and are very juicy, and if beef in prime condition can be obtained, 
they are extremely tender. Besides these advantages, rump roasts 
are economical, so they are much favored. To prepare them for 




Fig. 21 

cooking, the butcher generally removes the bone and rolls them in 
the manner shown in Fig. 26. 

56. Roast Beef. — The usual method of preparing the roasts 
that have just been described, particularly the tender ones, is to 
cook them in the oven. For this purpose a roasting pan, such as the 
one previously described and illustrated, produces the best results, 
but if one of these cannot be obtained, a dripping pan may be substi- 
tuted. When the meat is first placed in the oven, the oven temper- 
ature should be 400 to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, but after the meat 
has cooked for about 15 minutes, the temperature should be lowered 
so that the meat will cook more slowly. 




Fig. 22 




Fig. 23 




Fig. 24 




36 



Fig. 25 



3G MEAT § 10 

Before putting the roast in the oven, wipe it thoroughly with a 
damp cloth. If its surface is not well covered with a' layer of fat, 
place several pieces of salt pork on it and tie or skewer them fast. 
Then, having one of the cut sides up so that it will be exposed to 
the heat of the oven, set the piece of meat in a roasting pan or the 
utensil that is to be substituted. Dredge, or sprinkle, the surface 
with flour, salt, and pepper, and place the pan in the oven, first 
making sure that the oven is sufficiently hot. Every 10 or 15 min- 
utes baste the meat with the fat and the juice that cooks out of it; 
that is, spoon up this liquid and pour it over the meat in order to 
improve the flavor and to prevent the roast from becoming dry. If 
necessary, a little water may be added for basting, but the use of 
water for this purpose should generally be avoided. Allow the 

meat to roast until it is either well done 
or rare, according to the way it is pre- 
ferred. The length of time required 
for this process depends so much on 
the size of the roast, the temperature 
of the oven, and the preference of the 
persons who are to eat the meat, that 
definite directions cannot well be given. 
However, a general idea of this matter 
can be obtained by referring to the 
Cookery Time Table given in Essen- 
tials of Cookery, Part 2, and also to Table I of this Section, which 
gives the time required for cooking each pound of meat. If desired, 
gravy may be made from the juice that remains in the pan, the direc- 
tions for making gravy being given later. 

57. Braized Beef. — An excellent way in which to cook a piece 
of beef that is cut from the rump or lower round is to braize it. 
This method consists in placing the meat on a rack over a small 
quantity of water in a closed pan and then baking it in the oven for 
about 4 hours. Vegetables cut into small pieces are placed in the 
water and they cook while the meat is baking. As meat prepared 
in this way really cooks in the flavored steam that rises from the 
vegetables, it becomes very tender and has a splendid flavor; also, 
the gravy that may be made from the liquid that remains adds to 
its value. In serving it, a spoonful of the vegetables is generally put 
on the plate with each piece of meat. 




§ 10 MEAT 37 

Braized Beef 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 lb. beef from rump or lower ^ c. diced carrots 

round | c. diced turnips 

Flour -| c. diced onions 

Salt I c. diced celery- 

Pepper 3 c. boiling water 

2 thin slices salt pork 
Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and dredge, or sprinkle, it with 
the flour, salt, and pepper. Try out the pork and brown the entire 
surface of the meat in the fat thus obtained. Then place the meat 
on a rack in a deep granite pan, an earthen bowl, or a baking dish, 
and surround it with the diced vegetables. Add the boiling water, 
cover the dish tight, and place in a slow oven. Bake for about 
4 hours at a low temperature. Then remove the meat to a hot 
platter, strain out the vegetables, and make a thickened gravy of 
the liquid that remains, as explained later. 

58. Pot-Roasted Beef. — The usual, and probably the most 
satisfactory, method of preparing the cheaper cuts of beef is to 
cook them in a heavy iron pot over a slow fire for several hours. 
If the proper attention is given to the preparation of such a roast, 
usually called a pot roast, it will prove a very appetizing dish. Pota- 
toes may also be cooked in the pot with the meat. This is a good 
plan to follow for it saves fuel and at the same time offers variety in 
the cooking^of potatoes. 

When a piece of beef is to be roasted in a pot, try out in the pot a 
little of the beef fat. Then wipe the meat carefully and brown it 
on all sides in the fat. Add salt, pepper, and ^ cupful of boiling 
water and cover the pot tightly. Cook over a slow fire until the 
water is evaporated and the meat begins to brown ; then add another 
i cupful of water. Continue to do this until the meat has cooked 
for several hours, or until the entire surface is well browned' and 
the meat tissue very tender. Then place the meat on a hot platter 
and, if desired, make gravy of the fat that remains in the pan, 
following the directions given later. If potatoes are to be cooked 
with the roast, put them into the pot around the meat about 45 min- 
utes before the meat is to be removed, as they will be cooked suffi- 
ciently when the roast is done. 

59. Beef Loaf.' — Hamburger steak is not always made into 
small patties and broiled or sauted. In fact, it is very often com- 



38 MEAT § 10 

bined with cracker crumbs, milk, and egg, and then well seasoned to 
make a beef loaf. Since there are no bones nor fat to be cut away in 
serving, this is an economical dish and should be used occasionally 
to give variety to the diet. If desired, a small quantity of salt pork 
may be combined with the beef to add flavor. 

Beef Loaf 
(SufBcient to Serve Ten) 

3 lb. beef 2 Tb. salt 

i lb. salt pork | Tb. pepper 

1 c. cracker crumbs 1 small onion 

1 c. milk 2 Tb. chopped parsley 

legg 
Put the beef and pork through the food chopper; then mix 
thoroughly with the other ingredients. Pack tightly into a loaf -cake 
pan. Bake in a moderate oven for 2-J to 3 hours. During the baking, 
baste frequently with hot water to which a little butter has been 
added. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. 



PREPARATION OP STEWS AXD CORNED BEEP 

60. Cuts Suitable for Stewing and Corning. — Because 
of the large variety of cuts obtained from a beef, numerous ways of 
cooking this meat have been devised. The tender cuts are, of 
course, the most desirable and the most expensive and they do not 
require the same preparation as the cheaper cuts. However, the 
poorer cuts, while not suitable for some purposes, make very good 
stews and corned beef. The cuts that are most satisfactory for 
stewing and corning are shown in Figs. 27 to 30. A part of the 
chuck that is much used for stewing and corning is shown in Fig. 27, 
a being the upper chuck, b the shoulder, and c the lower chuck. 
Fig. 28 shows a piece of the shoulder cut off just at the leg joint. 
Fig. 29, the neck, and Fig. 30, a piece of the plate called a flat-rib 
piece. Besides these pieces, the brisket, the lower part of the round, 
and any of the other chuck pieces that do not make good roasts are 
excellent for this purpose. In fact, any part that contains bone and 
fat, as well as lean, makes well-flavored stew. 

61. Beef Stew. — Any of the pieces of beef just mentioned 
may be used with vegetables of various kinds to make beef stew. 
Also left-over pieces of a roast or a steak may be utilized with other 
meats in the making of this dish. If the recipe here given is care- 




Fig. 27 




Fig. 28 





^^ 


1^^ii^.^''-''»^'^'«isf<^.^,^^ 


1 




1^^^ 



Fig. 29 




39 



Fig. 30 



40 MEAT § 10 

fully followed, a very appetizing as well as nutritious stew will be 
the result. 

Beef Stew 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

4 lb. beef f c. diced carrots 

2 Tb. salt 1 small onion, sliced 

i Tb. pepper 3 c. potatoes cut into ^-in. slices 

f c. diced turnips 2 Tb. flour 

Wipe the meat and cut it into pieces about 2 inches long. Try 
out some of the fat in a frying pan and brown the pieces of meat in 
it, stirring the meat constantly so that it will brown evenly. Put 
the browned meat into a kettle with the remaining fat and the bone, 
cover well with boiling water, and add the salt and pepper. Cover 
the kettle with a tight-fitting lid. Let the meat boil for a minute 
or two, then reduce the heat, and allow it to simmer for about 
2 hours. For the last hour, cook the diced turnips, carrots, and 
onions with the meat, and 20 minutes before serving, add the pota- 
toes. When the meat and vegetables are sufficiently cooked, remove 
the bones, fat, and skin; then thicken the stew with the flour mois- 
tened with enough cold water to pour. Pour into a deep platter or 
dish and serve with or without dumplings. 

62. When dumplings are to be served with beef stew or any 
dish of this kind, they may be prepared as follows : 

Dumplings 

2 c. flour 2 Tb. fat 

i Tb. salt f to 1 c. milk 

4 tsp. baking powder 
Mix and sift the flour, salt, and baking powder. Chop in the fat 
with a knife. Add the milk gradually and mix to form a dough. 
Toss on a floured board and roll out or pat until it is about 1 inch 
thick. Cut into pieces with a small biscuit cutter. Place these close 
together in a buttered steamer and steam over a kettle of hot water 
for 15 to 18 minutes. Serve with the stew. 

If a softer dough that can be cooked with the stew is preferred, 
1^ cupfuls of milk instead of f to 1 cupful should be used. Drop 
the dough thus prepared by the spoonful into the stew and boil for 
about 15 minutes. Keep the kettle tightly covered while the dump- 
lings are boiling. 

63. Corned Beef. — It is generally the custom to purchase 
corned beef, that is, beet preserved in a brine, at the market; but 



§ 10 MEAT 41 

this is not necessary, as meat of this kind may be prepared in the 
home. When the housewife wishes to corn beef, she will find it an 
advantage to procure a large portion of a quarter of beef, part of 
which may be corned and kept to be used after the fresh beef has 
been eaten. Of course, this plan should be followed only in cold 
weather, for fresh meat soon spoils unless it is kept very cold. 

To corn beef, prepare a mixture of 10 parts salt to 1 part salt- 
peter and rub this into the beef until the salt remains dry on the 
surface. Put the meat aside for 24 hours and then rub it again with 
some of the same mixture. On the following day, put the beef into 
a large crock or stone jar and cover it with a brine made by boiling 
2i gallons of water into which have been added 2 quarts salt, 
2 ounces saltpeter, and f pound brown sugar. Be careful to cool 
the brine until it entirely cold before using it. Allow the beef to 
remain in the brine for a week before attempting to use it. Inspect 
it occasionally, and if it does not appear to be keeping well, remove 
it from the brine, rub it again with the salt mixture, and place it in 
fresh brine. Beef that is properly corned will keep an indefinite 
length of time, but it should be examined, every 2 or 3 days for the 
first few weeks to see that it is not spoiling. 

64. Boiled. Corned Beef. — The usual way to prepare beef 
corned in the manner just explained or corned beef bought at the 
market is to boil it. After it becomes sufficiently tender by this 
method of cooking, it may be pressed into a desired shape and when 
cold cut into thin slices. Meat of this kind makes an excellent dish 
for a light meal such as luncheon or supper. 

To boil corned beef, first wipe it thoroughly and roll and tie it. 
Then put it into a kettle, cover it with boiling water, and set it over 
the fire. When it comes to the boiling point, skim off the scum that 
forms on the top. Cook at a low temperature until the meat is tender 
enough to be pierced easily with a fork. Then place the meat in a 
dish or a pan, pour the broth over it, put a plate on top that will rest 
on the meat, and weight it down with something heavy enough to 
press the meat into shape. Allow it to remain thus overnight. When 
cold and thoroughly set, remove from the pan, cut into thin slices, 
and serve. 

65. Boiled Dinner. — Corned beef is especially adaptable to 
what is commonly termed a boiled dinner. Occasionally it is advis- 



42 MEAT § 10 

able for the housewife to vary her meals by serving a dinner of this 
kind. In addition to offering variety, such a dinner affords her an 
opportunity to economize on fuel, especially if gas or electricity is 
used, for all of it may be prepared in the same pot and cooked over 
the same burner. 

Boiled Dinner 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 lb. corned beef 1 c. sliced turnips 

1 small head of cabbage cut into 1 c. sliced potatoes 

eighths Pepper and salt 
1 c. sliced carrots 

Cook the corned beef in the' manner explained in Art. 64. When 
it has cooked sufficiently, remove it from the water. Into this water, 
put the cabbage, carrots, turnips, and potatoes; then add the salt 
and pepper, seasoning to taste. Cook until the vegetables are tender. 
Remove the vegetables and serve them in vegetable dishes with 
some of the meat broth. Reheat the meat before serving. 



BEEP ORGANS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

66. Boiled Tongue. — The tongue of beef is much used, for if 
properly prepared it makes a delicious meat that may be served hot 
or cold. It is usually corned or smoked to preserve it until it can 
be used. In either of these forms or in its fresh state, it must be 
boiled in order to remove the skin and prepare the meat for further 
use. If it has been corned or smoked, it is likely to be very salty, 
so that it should usually be soaked overnight to remove the salt. 

When boiled tongue is desired, put a fresh tongue or a smoked 
or a corned tongue from which the salt has been removed into a 
kettle of cold water and allow it to come to a boil. Skim and con- 
tinue to cook at a low temperature for 2 hours. Cool enough to 
handle and then remove the skin and the roots. Cut into slices and 
serve hot or cold. 

67. Pickled Tongue. — A beef tongue prepared in the manner 
just explained may be treated in various ways, but a method of 
preparation that meets with much favor consists in pickling it. 
Pickled tongue makes an excellent meat when a cold dish is required 
for' a light meal or meat for sandwiches is desired. The pickle 
required for one tongue contains the following ingredients: 



§ 10 MEAT 43 

Pickle 

li c. vinegar | Tb. pepper 

2 c. water 6 cloves 

i c. sugar 1 stick cinnamon 

1 Tb. salt 
Boil all of these ingredients for a few minutes, then add the 
tongue, and boil for IS minutes. Remove from the stove and let 
stand for 24 hours. Slice and serve cold. 

68. Braized Tongue. — The process of braizing may be 
applied to tongue as well as to other parts of beef. In fact, when 
tongue is cooked in this way with several kinds of vegetables, it 
makes a delicious dish that is pleasing to most persons. 

Braized Tongue 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 fresh tongue 1 c. stewed tomatoes 

i c. diced carrots 2 c. water in which tongue is 

i c. diced onions boiled 

i c. diced celery 
Boil the tongue as previously directed, and then skin it and 
remove the roots. Place it in a long pan and pour over it the car- 
rots, onions, celery, stewed tomatoes, and the water. Cover tight 
and bake in a slow oven for 2 hours. Serve on a platter with the 
vegetables and sauce. 

69. Stuffed Heart. — If a stuffed meat is desired, nothing 
more appetizing can be found than stuffed heart. For this purpose 
the heart of a young beef should be selected in order that a tender 
dish will result. 

After washing the heart and removing the veins and the arteries, 
make a stuffing like that given for rolled beefsteak in Art. 45. 
Stuff the heart with this dressing, sprinkle salt and pepper over 
it, and roll it in flour. Lay several strips of bacon or salt pork 
across the top, place in a baking pan, and pour 1 cupful of water into 
the pan. Cover the pan tight, set it in a hot oven, and bake slowly 
for 2 or 3 hours, depending on the size of the heart. Add water as 
the water in the pan evaporates, and baste the heart frequently. 
When it has baked sufficiently, remove to a platter and serve at once. 



WI-O-7 



44 MEAT § 10 



MAKIKG GRAVY 

70. To meats prepared in various ways, gravy — ^that is, the 
sauce made from the drippings or juices that cook out of steaks, 
roasts, and stews, or from the broth actually cooked from the meat 
as for soup — is a valuable addition, particularly if it is well made 
and properly seasoned. A point to remember in this connection is 
that gravy should be entirely free from lumps and not too thick. 
It will be of the right thickness if 1 to 2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
is used for each pint of liquid. It should also be kept in mind that 
the best gravy is made from the brown drippings that contain 
some fat. 

To make gravy, remove any excess of fat that is not required, 
and then pour a little hot water into the pan in order to dissolve 
the drippings that are to be used. Add the flour to the fat, stirring 
until a smooth paste is formed. Then add the liquid, which may be 
water or milk, and stir quickly to prevent the formation of lumps. 
Season well with salt and pepper. Another method that also proves 
satisfactory is to mix the flour and liquid and then add them to the 
fat that remains in the pan in which the meat has been cooked. 



TRYING OUT SUET AND OTHER PATS 

71. The suet obtained from beef is a valuable source of fat for 
cooking, and it should therefore never be thrown away. The 
process of obtaining the fat from suet is called trying, and it is 
always practiced in homes where economy is the rule. 

To try out suet, cut the pieces into half-inch cubes, place them 
in a heavy frying pan, and cover them with hot water. Allow this 
to come to a boil and cook until the water has evaporated. Con- 
tinue the heating until all the fat has been drawn from the tissue. 
Then pour off all the liquid fat and squeeze the remaining suet with 
a potato masher or in a fruit press. Clean glass or earthen jars are 
good receptacles in which to keep the fat thus recovered from the 
suet. 

To try out other fats, proceed in the same way as for trying out 
suet. Such fats may be tried by heating them in a pan without 
water, provided the work is done carefully enough to prevent them 
from scorching. 



§ 10 MEAT 45 



PREPARATION OP L.EPT-OVER BEEF 

72. As has been shown, meat is both an expensive and a perish- 
able food. Therefore, some use should be made of every left-over 
bit of it, no matter how small, and it should be disposed of quickly 
in order to prevent it from spoiling. A point that should not be 
overlooked in the use of left-over meats, however, is that they should 
be prepared so as to be a contrast to the original preparation and 
thus avoid monotony in the food served. This variation may be 
accomplished by adding other foods and seasonings and by changing 
the appearance as much as possible. For instance, what remains 
from a roast of beef may be cut in thin slices and garnished to make 
an attractive dish; or, left-over meat may be made very appetizing 
by cutting it into cubes, reheating it in gravy or white sauce, and 
serving it over toast or potato patties. Then there is the sandwich, 
which always finds a place in the luncheon. The meat used for this 
purpose may be sliced thin or it may be chopped fine, and then, to 
increase the quantity, mixed with salad dressing, celery, olives, 
chopped pickles, etc. An excellent sandwich is made by placing 
thin slices of roast beef between two slices of bread and serving 
hot roast-beef gravy over the sandwich thus formed. Still other 
appetizing dishes may be prepared from left-over beef as the accom- 
panying recipes show. 

73. Mexican Beef. — An extremely appetizing dish, known as 
Mexican beef, can be made from any quantity of left-over beef by 
serving it with a vegetable sauce. Such a dish needs few accompani- 
ments when it is served in a light meal, but it may be used very 
satisfactorily as the main dish in a heavy meal. 

Mexican Beef 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. salt 

1 onion, chopped i tsp. pepper 

1 red pepper 1 tsp. celery salt 

1 green pepper Thin slices roast beef 

f c. canned tomatoes 

Brown the butter, add the chopped onion, and cook for a few 
minutes. Then add the chopped peppers, tomatoes, salt, pepper, and 
celery salt. Cook all together for a few minutes and add the thinly 
sliced roast beef. When the meat has become thoroughly heated, it 
is ready to serve. 



46 MEAT § 10 

74. Cottage Pie. — ^A very good way to use up left-over 
mashed potatoes as well as roast beef is to combine them and make 
a cottage pie. In this dish, mashed potatoes take the place of the 
crust that is generally put over the top of a meat pie. If well 
seasoned and served hot, it makes a very palatable dish. 

To make a cottage pie, cover the bottom of a baking dish with a 
2-inch layer of well-seasoned mashed potatoes. Over this spread 
left-over roast beef cut into small pieces. Pour over the meat and 
potatoes any left-over gravy and a few drops of onion juice made 
by grating raw onion. Cover with a layer of mashed potatoes 1 inch 
deep. Dot with butter and place in a hot oven until the pie has 
heated through and browned on top. Serve hot. 

75. Beef Pie. — No housewife need be at a loss for a dish that 
will tempt her family if she has on hand some left-over pieces of 
beef, for out of them she may prepare a beef pie, which is always 
in favor. Cold roast beef makes a very good pie, but it is not neces- 
sary that roast beef be used, as left-over steak or even a combination 
of left-over meats, will do very well. 

Cut into 1-inch cubes whatever kinds of left-over meats are on 
hand. Cover with hot water, add a sliced onion, and cook slowly 
for 1 hour. Thicken the liquid with flour and season well with salt 
and pepper. Add two or three potatoes, cut into J-inch slices, and 
let them boil for several minutes. Pour the mixture into a buttered 
baking dish and cover it with a baking-powder biscuit mixture. 
Bake in a hot oven until the crust is brown. Serve hot. 

76. Beef Hash. — One of the most satisfactory ways in which 
to utilize left-over roast beef or corned beef is to cut it into small 
pieces and make it into a hash. Cold boiled potatoes that remain 
from a previous meal are usually combined with the beef, and onion 
is added for flavor. When hash is prepared to resemble an omelet 
and is garnished with parsley, it makes an attractive dish. 

To make beef hash, remove all skin and bone from the meat, chop 
quite fine, and add an equal quantity of chopped cold-boiled potatoes 
and one chopped onion. Season with salt and pepper. Put the 
mixture into a well-buttered frying pan, moisten with milk, meat 
stock, or left-over gravy, and place over a fire. Let the hash brown 
slowly on the bottom and then fold over as for an omelet. Serve on 
a platter garnished with parsley. 



§ 10 MEAT 47 

77. Frizzled Beef. — While the dried beef used in the prepara- 
tion of frizzled beef is not necessarily a left-over meat, the recipe 
for this dish is given here, as it is usually served at a meal when the 
preceding left-over beef dishes are appropriate. Prepared according 
to this recipe, frizzled beef will be found both nutritious and 
appetizing. 

Frizzled Beef 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 Tb. butter 1 c. milk 

i lb. .thinly sliced dried beef 4 slices of toast 

2 Tb. flour 
Brown the butter in a frying pan and add the beef torn into small 
pieces. Allow it to cock until the beef becomes brown. Add the 
flour and brown it. Pour the milk over all, and cook until the flour 
thickens the milk. Serve over the toast. 



MEAT 

(PART 1) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) What is meat? (6) What substance in meat makes it a valuable 
food? 

(2) (a) What do protein foods do for the body? (b) How does meat 
compare in cost with the other daily foods? 

(3) What harm may occur from eating meat that is not thoroughly 
cooked? 

(4) (a) Describe the structure of meat. (&) How do the length and the 
direction of the fibers affect the tenderness of meat? 

(5) (o) How may gelatine be obtained from meat? (6) What use is 
made of this material? 

(6) (a) Describe the two kinds of fat found in meat. (6) What does 
this substance supply to the body? 

(7) (a) What is the value of water in the tissues of meat? (6) How 
does its presence affect the cookery method to choose for preparing meat? 

(8) (o) What are extractives? (&) 'Why are they of value in meat? 

(9) (a) Name the ways by which the housewife may reduce her meat 
bill. (6) How should meat be cared for in the home? 

(10) Give three reasons for cooking meat. 

(11) (a) Describe the effect of cooking on the materials contained in 
meat. (6) How does cooking affect the digestibility of meat? 

(12) What methods of cookery are used for: (a) the tender cuts of meat? 
(6) the tough cuts? (c) Mention the cuts of meat that have the most flavor. 

(13) (o) How should the temperature of the oven vary with the size of 
the roast to be cooked? (6) Give the reason for this. 

(14) Describe beef of good quality. 

(15) In what parts of the animal are found: (a) the cheaper cuts of 
beef? (6) the more expensive cuts? 

(16) (a) Name the steaks obtained from the loin. (6) Which of these 
is best for a large family? (c) Which is best for a small family? 

(17) Describe the way in which to broil steak. 

(18) (a) What is the tenderloin of beef? (6) Explain the two ways of 
cooking it. 

(19) (a) Name the various kinds of roasts, (fc) Describe the roasting of 
beef in the oven. 

(20) (a) What cuts of beef are most satisfactory for stews? (6) Explain 
how beef stew is made. 

§10 



MEAT 

(PART 2) 



VEAIi 



NATURE OF VEAL 

1. Veal is the name applied to the flesh of a slaughtered calf. 
This kind of meat is at its best in animals that are from 6 weeks to 
3 months old when killed. Calves younger than 6 weeks are some- 
times slaughtered, but their meat is of poor quality and should be 
avoided. Meat from a calf that has not reached the age of 3 weeks 
is called bob veal. Such meat is pale, dry, tough, and indigestible 
and, consequently, unfit for food. In most states the laws strictly 
forbid the sale of bob veal for food, but constant vigilance must be 
exercised to safeguard the public from unscrupulous dealers. A calf 
that goes beyond the age of 3 months without being slaughtered 
must be kept and fattened until it reaches the age at which it can 
be profitably sold as beef, for it is too old to be used as veal. 

2. The nature of veal can be more readily comprehended by 
comparing it with beef, the characteristics of which are now under- 
stood. Veal is lighter in color than beef, being more nearly pink 
than red, and it contains very little fat, as reference to Fig. 1, Meat, 
Part 1, will show. The tissues of veal contain less nutriment than 
those of beef, but they contain more gelatine. The flavor of veal is 
less pronounced than that of beef, the difference between the age of 
animals used for veal and those used for beef being responsible 
for this lack of flavor. These characteristics, as well as the differ- 
ence in size of corresponding cuts, make it easy to distinguish veal 
from beef in the market. 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTSRNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL. PUBLISHINO COMPANY. AL.L RIGHTS RESKRVED 

Sli 



MEAT 



§11 



CUTS OF VEAL AND THEIR USES 

3. The slaughtered calf from which veal is obtained is generally 
delivered to the butcher in the form shown in Fig. 1 ; that is, with 




Fig. 1 



the head, feet, and intestines removed and the carcass split into halves 
through the spine. He divides each half into quarters, known as the 
fore quarter and the hind quarter, and cuts these into smaller pieces. 



§ 11 MEAT 3 

4. Fore Quarter. — The fore quarter, as shown in Fig. 1, is 
composed of the neck, chuck, shoulder, fore shank, breast, and ribs. 
Frequently, no distinction is made between the neck and the chuck, 
both of these pieces and the fore shank being used for soups and 
stews. The shoulder is cut from the ribs lying underneath, and it 
is generally used for roasting, often with stuffing rolled inside of it. 
The breast, which is the under part of the fore quarter and corre- 
sponds to the plate in beef, is suitable for either roasting or stewing. 
When the rib bones are removed from it, a pocket that will hold 
stuffing can be cut into this piece. The ribs between the shoulder 
and the loin are called the rack; they may be cut into chops or used 
as one piece for roasting. 

5. Hind Quarter. — The hind quarter, as Fig. 1 shows, is 
divided into the loin, flank, leg, and hind shank. The loin and the 
flank are located similarly to these same cuts in beef. In some local- 
ities, the part of veal corresponding to the rump of beef is included 
with the loin, and in others it is cut as part of the leg. When it is 
part of the leg, the leg is cut off just in front of the hip bone and is 
separated from the lower part of the leg, or hind shank, immediately 
below the hip joint. This piece is often used for roasting, although 
cutlets or steaks may be cut from it. The hind shank, which, 
together with the fore shank, is called a knuckle, is used for soup 
making. When the loin and flank are cut in a single piece, they are 
used for roasting. 

6. Veal Organs.' — Certain of the organs of the calf, like those 
of beef animals, are used for food. They include the heart, tongue, 
liver, and kidneys, as well as the thymus and thyroid glands and the 
pancreas. The heart and tongue of veal are more delicate in 
texture and flavor than those of beef, but the methods of cooking 
them are practically the same. The liver and kidneys of calves make 
very appetizing dishes and find favor with many persons. The 
thymus and thyroid glands and the pancreas are included under the 
term sweetbreads. The thymus gland, which lies near the heart and 
is often called the heart sweetbread, is the best one. The thyroid 
gland lies in the throat and is called the throat sweetbread. These 
two glands are joined by a connecting membrane, but this is often 
broken and each gland sold as a separate sweetbread. The pan- 
creas, which is the stomach sweetbread, is used less often than the 
others. 



MEAT 



§11 



7. Table of Veal Cuts. — The various cuts of veal, together 
with their uses, are arranged for ready reference in Table I. There- 
fore, so that the housewife may become thoroughly familiar with 
these facts about veal, she is urged to make a careful study of this 
table. 

TABLE I 

NAMES OP VEAI, CUTS AND ORGANS AND THEIH USES 



Uses of Cuts 



Fore Quarter... 



Hind Quarter 



Veal Organs. . 



Name of Large Name of Small 
Cut Cut 

Head Soup, made dishes, gelatine 

Breast Stew, made dishes, gelatine 

Ribs Stew, made dishes, chops 

Shoulder Stew, made dishes 

Neck Stew or stock, made dishes 

{Loin Chops, roasts 
Leg Cutlets or fillet, sauteing, or roasting 
Knuckle Stock, stews 

Brains Made dishes, chafing dish 

Liver Broiling, sauteing 

Heart Stuffed, baked 

Tongue Boiled, braised 

Sweetbreads Made dishes, chafing dish 

Kidneys Boiled, stew 



COOKING OF VEAL 



VEAI, CUTS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

8. In the preparation of veal, an important point to remember 
is that meat of this kind always requires thorough cooking. It 
should never be served rare. Because of the long cooking veal 
needs, together with the difficulty encountered in chewing it and 
its somewhat insipid flavor, which fails to excite the free flow of 
gastric juice, this meat is more indigestible than beef. In order to 
render it easier to digest, since it must be thoroughly cooked, the 
long, slow methods of cookery should be selected, as these soften 
the connective tissue. Because of the lack of flavor, veal is not so 
good as beef when the extraction of flavor is desired for broth. 
However, the absence of flavor makes veal a valuable meat to com- 
bine with chicken and the more expensive meats, particularly in 
highly seasoned made dishes or salads. Although lacking in flavor, 



§ 11 MEAT " 

veal contains more gelatine than other meats. While this substance 
is not very valuable as a food, it lends body to soup or broth and 
assists in the preparation of certain made dishes. To supply the 
flavor needed in dishes of this kind, pork is sometimes used with 
the veal. 

9. Veal Steaks or Cutlets. — Strictly speaking, veal cutlets 
are cut from the ribs; however, a thin slice cut from the leg, as 
shown in Fig. 2, while in reality a steak, is considered by most 
housewives and butchers as a cutlet. A piece cut from the leg of 
veal corresponds to a cut of round steak in beef. 

10. Pan-Broiled Veal Steak or Cutlets. — Several methods 
of preparing veal steak or cutlets are in practice, but a very satis- 







'i^','„ , "" ' ' 




\ 
p 


p> 


^ 


% 


c-^ 


m 











Fic. 2 

factory one is to pan-broil them. This method prevents the juices 
from being drawn out of the meat and consequently produces a 
tender, palatable dish. 

To pan-broil veal steak or cutlets, grease a hot frying pan with 
fat of any desirable kind, place the pieces of meat in it, and allow 
them to sear, first on one side and then on the other. When they 
are completely seared, lower the temperature, and broil for 15 to 
20 minutes, or longer if necessary. Season well with salt and 
pepper. When cooked, remove to a platter and, just before serving, 
pour melted butter over the meat. 

11. Veal Cutlets in Brown Sauce. — To improve the flavor 
of veal cutlets, a brown sauce is often prepared and served with 



6 



MEAT 



§11 



them. In fact, the cutlets are cooked in this sauce, which becomes 
thickened by the flour that is used to dredge the meat. 

To cook cutlets in this way, dredge them with flour, season them 
with salt and pepper, and saute them in hot fat until the flour is 
quite brown. Then pour 1 cupful of milk and 1 cupful of water 
over the meat, cover the pan securely, and allow to cook slowly for 
about f hour. The sauce should be slightly thick and quite brown. 
Serve the cutlets in the brown sauce. 

12. Veal Roasts. — Several different cuts of veal make very 
good roasts. The most economical one is a 5- or 6-inch slice cut 
from the leg of veal in the same way as the steak shown in Fig. 2. 




Fig. 3 

Both the loin and the best end of the neck are excellent for roast- 
ing. The shoulder of veal, which is shown in Fig. 3, is sometimes 
roasted, but it is more often used for stew. Veal breast from which 
the ribs have been removed and veal rack, which is the portion of 
the ribs attached to the neck, may also be used for roasting. When 
they are, they are usually cut so as to contain a deep slit, or pocket, 
that may be filled with stuffing. In fact, whenever it is possible, 
the bone is removed from a piece of roasting veal and stuffing is 
put in its place. 

To roast any of these pieces, wipe the meat, dredge it with flour, 
and season it with salt and pepper. Place it in a roasting pan and 
put it into a hot oven. Bake for 15 minutes; then lower the temper- 
ature of the oven and continue to bake slowly until the meat is well 



§ 11 MEAT 7 

done, the length of time depending on the size of the roast. Baste 
frequently during the roasting. Remove the roast to a hot platter. 
Then place the roasting pan over the flame, and make gravy by 
browning 2 tablespoonf uls of flour in the fat that it contains, adding 
to this 1^ cupfuls of water, and cooking until the flour has thickened 
the water. Serve the gravy thus prepared in a gravy bowl. 

13. Stuffed Veal Breast. — A breast of veal in which a pocket 
has been cut for stuffing is shown in Fig. 4. When such a piece is 





1 


■ 


3 


m 


3 ^ " g^ 


-t-^---- - -.fc;^ - .. 




-"^M 



Fig. 4 

desired for roasting, it is advisable to have the butcher prepare it. 
The stuffing required should be made as follows : 

Stuffing for Veal 
4 Tb. butter or bacon or ham fat 2 sprigs of parsley, chopped 

i Tb. salt 1 pimiento, chopped 

■J Tb. pepper IJ c. water 

1 Tb. celery salt 1 qt. stale bread crumbs 

Melt the fat, and to it add the salt, pepper, celery salt, parsley, 
pimiento, and water. Pour this mixture over the crumbs, and mix 
all thoroughly. Stuff into the opening in the breast. Place the meat 
thus stuffed in a baking pan and bake in a moderately hot oven for 
1 to 1^ hours. 

14. Veal Potple. — ^A good way in which to impart the flavor 
of meat to a starchy material and thus not only economize on meat, 
but also provide an appetizing dish, is to serve meat with dumplings 
in a veal potpie. For such a dish, a piece of veal from the shoulder, 



8 MEAT § 11 

like that shown in Fig. 3, is the best cut. To give variety, potatoes 
may be used, and to improve the flavor at least one onion is cooked 
with the meat. 

To prepare a veal potpie, wipe the meat, cut it into pieces of the 
right size for serving, and to it add a few pieces of salt pork or 
bacon. Put these over the fire in enough cold water to cover the 
meat well and add a small onion, sliced. Bring to the boiling point 
and skim; then simmer until the meat is tender. Season with salt 
and pepper a few minutes before the meat has finished cooking. 
Next, make a baking-powder biscuit dough, roll it i inch thick, and 
cut it into l|-inch squares. Then Examine the meat to see how much 
of the liquid has evaporated. If the liquid is too thick, add boiling 
water to thin it. Drop in the squares of dough, cover the pot tight, 
and boil for 15 minutes without uncovering. 

If potatoes are desired in a pie of this kind, cut them into thick 
slices and add the slices about 10 minutes before the dough is to be 
put into the broth, so that they will have sufficient time in which 
to cook. 

15. "Veal Stew. — The cheaper cuts of veal can be used to 
advantage for making veal stew. Such a dish is prepared in the 
same way as beef stew, which is explained in Meat, Part 1, except 
that veal is substituted for the beef. Vegetables of any desired kind 
may be used in veal stew, and the stewed or boiled dumplings men- 
tioned in the beef-stew recipe may or may not be used. As the 
vegetables and the dumplings, provided dumplings are used, increase 
the quantity of meat-flavored food, only small portions of the meat 
need be served. 

16. Jellied Veal. — The large amount of gelatine contained 

in veal may be utilized in the preparation of jellied veal. The most 

satisfactory piece for making jellied veal is the knuckle, or shank. 

No more attractive meat dish than this can be found for luncheon 

or supper, for it can be cut into thin slices and served on a nicely 

garnished platter. 

Jellied Veal 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

Knuckle of veal 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

1 Tb. salt 1 Tb. chopped onion 

i c. chopped celery 
Put the knuckle in a pot and add enough water to cover it. Add 
the salt, celery, parsley, and onion. Cook until the meat is very 



§ 11 MEAT 9 

tender and then strain oflE the liquid. Cut the meat from the bones 
and chop it very fine. Boil the liquid until it is reduced to 1 pint, 
and then set aside to cool. Place the meat in a mold and when cold 
pour the broth over it. Keep in a cool place until it has set. Slice 
and serve cold. 



VBAI, ORGANS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

17. Getting Sweetbreads Ready for Cooking:. — The 

throat glands and the pancreas of calves, which, as has already 
been learned, are called sweetbreads, can be cooked in various ways 
for the table. The first process in their preparation, however, is the 
same for all recipes. When this is understood, it will be a simple 
matter to make up attractive dishes in which sweetbreads are used. 
It is generally advisable to buy sweetbreads in pairs, as the heart 
and throat sweetbreads are preferable to the one that lies near the 
stomach. Sweetbreads spoil very quickly. Therefore, as soon as 
they are brought into the kitchen, put them in cold water and allow 
them to remain there for ^ hour or more. Then put them to cook 
in boiling water for 20 minutes in order to parboil them, after which 
place them in cold water again. Unless they are to be used imme- 
diately, keep them in cold water, as this will prevent them from 
discoloring. Before using sweetbreads in the recipes that follow, 
remove the skin and stringy parts. 

18. Broiled Sw^eetbreads. — Because of their tenderness, 
sweetbreads are especially suitable for broiling. When prepared in 
this way and served with sauce of some kind, they are very palatable. 

In order to broil sweetbreads, first parboil them in the manner 
just explained. Then split each one lengthwise and broil them over 
a clear fire for 5 minutes or pan-broil them with a small amount of 
butter until both surfaces are slightly browned. Season with salt 
and pepper. Serve hct. 

19. Creamed Sweetbreads. — If an especially dainty dish is 
desired for a light meal, sweetbreads may be creamed and then 
served over toast or in patty shells or timbale cases, the making 
of which is taken up later. If desired, mushrooms may be com- 
bined with sweetbreads that are served in this way. Diced cold 
veal or calves' brains creamed and served in this way are also deli- 
cious. Instead of creaming sweetbreads and calves' brains, how- 
ever, these organs are sometimes scrambled with eggs. 



10 MEAT § 11 

To prepare creamed sweetbreads, parboil them and then separate 
them into small pieces with a fork or cut them into cubes. Reheat 
them in a cupful of white sauce, season well, and then serve them in 
any of the ways just mentioned. If mushrooms are to be used, cook 
and dice them before combining them with the sweetbreads. 

20. Kidneys. — The kidneys of both lamb and veal are used 
for food. The cooking of them, however, must be either a quick, 
short process or a long, slow one. When a quick method is applied, 
the tissues remain tender. Additional cooking renders them 
tough, so that a great deal more cooking must be done to make them 
tender again. Whatever method is applied, kidneys must always be 
soaked in water for 1 hour or more so as to cleanse them, the out- 
side covering then pared off, and the meat sliced or cut into cubes 
or strips. After being thus prepared, kidneys may be broiled or 
sauted, or, if a long method of cookery is preferred, they may be 
boiled or stewed with or without vegetables. 

21. Calves' Liver and Bacon. — Beef liver is sometimes used 
for food, but it is not so good as liver from the calf. In fact, calves' 

. liver, especially when combined with bacon, is very appetizing. 
The bacon supplies the fat that the liver lacks and at the same time 
provides flavor. 

To prepare calves' liver and bacon, cut the liver into ^-inch slices, 
cover these with boiling water, and let them stand for 5 minutes. 
Remove from the water, dip into flour, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. For each slice of liver pan-broil a slice of bacon. Remove 
the bacon to a hot platter, and then place the slices of liver in the 
bacon fat and saute them for about 10 minutes, turning them 
frequently. Serve the liver and bacon together. 



PREPARATION OF LEFT-OVER VEAL 

22. Veal Rolls. — The portion of a veal roast that remains after 
it has been served hot can be combined with dressing to make veal 
rolls, a dish that will be a pleasing change from the usual cold 
sliced meat. 

To make veal rolls, slice the veal and into each slice roll a spoon- 
ful of stuffing. Tie with a string, roll in flour, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Brown the rolls in hot butter. Then pour railk, 



§ 11 MEAT 11 

stock, or gravy over the rolls and simmer for 10 minutes. Remove 
the strings and serve on toast. 

23. Left-Over Jellied. Veal. — While jellied veal is usually 
made from a piece of veal bought especially for this purpose, it can 
be made from the left-overs of a veal roast. However, when the roast 
is purchased, some veal bones should be secured. Wash these bones, 
cover them with cold water, and to them add 1 onion, 1 bay leaf, and 

1 cupful of diced vegetables, preferably celery, carrots, and turnips. 
Allow these to simmer for 2 hours. To this stock add the bones 
that remain after the roast has been served and simmer for 1 or 

2 hours more. Strain the stock, skim off the fat, and season well 
with salt and pepper. Chop fine the left-over veal and 2 hard- 
cooked eggs. Put in a loaf-cake pan and pour the stock over it. 
When it has formed a mold, slice and serve cold. 

24. Creamed Veal on Biscuits.— A very good substitute for 
chicken and hot biscuits is creamed veal served on biscuits. This is 
an especially good dish for a light meal, such as luncheon or supper. 
Any left-over veal may be chopped or cut up into small pieces and 
used for this purpose. After the veal has been thus prepared, 
reheat it with white sauce and season it well with paprika, salt, and- 
pepper. Make baking-powder biscuits. To serve, split the hot bis- 
cuits, lay them open on a platter or a plate, and pour the hot creamed 
veal over them. 

25. Scalloped Veal With. Rice. — A very palatable dish can 
be prepared from left-over veal by combining it with rice and 
tomatoes. To prepare such a dish, season cooked rice with 1 tea- 
spoonful of bacon fat to each cupful of rice. Place a layer of rice 
in a baking dish, and over it put a layer of chopped veal. Pour a 
good quantity of stewed tomatoes over the veal and season well 
with salt and pepper. Over the tomatoes put a layer of rice, and 
cover the top with buttered crumbs. Set in a hot oven and bake 
until the crumbs are browned and the ingredients thoroughly heated. 

26. Veal Salad. — A salad is always a delightful addition to 
a meal and so usually finds favor. When it is made of n^eat, such 
as veal, it can be used as the main dish for luncheon or supper. As 
shown in the accompanying recipe, other things, such as celery, peas, 
and hard-cooked eggs, are usually put in a salad of this kind, 

WI-C3-8 



12 



MEAT 



§11 



Veal Salad 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. cold diced veal 4 Tb. olive oil 
1 c. diced celery 2 Tb. vinegar 
^ c. canned peas -J tsp. salt 

3 hard-cooked eggs i tsp. pepper 
Combine the veal, celery, peas, and eggs chopped fine. 

olive oil, vinegat, salt, and pepper to make a dressing. 



Mix the 
Marinate 



the ingredients with this dressing, 
salad dressing desired. 



Serve on lettuce leaves with any 



MUTTON AND LAMB 



COMPARISON OF MUTTON AND LAMB 

27. The term mutton is usually applied to the flesh of a sheep 
that is 1 year or more old, while lamb is the flesh of sheep under 
1 year of age. The popularity of these meats varies very much 




Fig. 5 



with the locality. In the United States, a preference for lamb has 
become noticeable, but in England mutton is more popular and is 
more commonly used. Both of these meats, however, are very pala- 



§11 



MEAT 



13 



table and nutritious, so 




Fig. 6 



that the choice of one or the other will 
always be determined by the taste or 
market conditions. 

28. Lamb that is 6 weeks to 3 
months old is called spring lamb, and 
usually comes into the market in Jan- 
uary or February. The meat of sheep 
1 year old is called yearling. Good 
mutton is cut from sheep that is about 
3 years old. Lamb may be eaten as 
soon as it is killed, but mutton requires 
ripening for 2 or 3 weeks to be in the 
best condition for food. Mutton differs 
from lamb very much as beef differs 
from veal, or as the meat of any other 
mature animal differs from a young one 
of the same kind. In mutton there is a 
smaller percentage of water and a larger 
percentage of fat, protein, extractives, 
and flavoring substances. 

There is also a difference in the 
appearance of these two meats. Lamb 
is pink and contains only small amounts 
of fat, while mutton is brick red and 
usually has considerable firm white fat. 
The bones of lamb are pink, while 
those of mutton are white. The out- 
side of lamb is covered with a thin white 
skin that becomes pink in mutton. The 
size of the pieces of meat often aids in 
distinguishing between these two meats, 
mutton, of course, coming in larger 
pieces than lamb. 

29. If there is any question as to 
whether the meat from sheep is lamb 
or mutton, and it canot be settled by 
any of the characteristics already men- 
tioned, the front leg of the dressed 
animal may be examined at the first 




Fig, 7 



14 



§ 11 MEAT 15 

joint above the foot. Fig. 5 shows this joint in both lamb and 
mutton. In lamb, which is shown at the left, the end of the bone 
can be separated from the long bone at the leg, as indicated, while 
in mutton this joint grows fast and looks like the illustration at the 
right. The joint is jagged in lamb, but smooth and round in mutton. 



CUTS OF MUTTON AND LAMB 



IHBTHOD OP OBTAINING CUTS 

30. Mutton and lamb are usually cut up in the same way, the 
dressed animal being divided into two pieces of almost equal weight. 
The line of division occurs between the first and second ribs, as is 
indicated by the heavy middle line in Fig. 6. The back half of the 
animal is called the saddle and the front half, the rack. In addition 
to being cut in this way, the animal is cut down the entire length of 
the backbone and is thus divided into the fore and hind quarters. 

The method of cutting up the racks and saddles varies in different 
localities, but, as a rule, the method illustrated in Fig. 7 is the one 
that is used. As here shown, the rack, or fore quarter, is cut up 
into the neck, chuck, shoulder, rib chops, and breast; and the 
saddle, or hind quarter, is divided into the loin, flank, and leg. 

The way in which the front and the back of a dressed sheep 
appear is shown in Fig. 8. The membrane, which extends from the 
legs down over the ribs, is the omentum, or covering of the intes- 
tines, and is known as the caul. This must be removed from any 
part that it covers before the meat is cooked. The kidneys incased 
in fat are also shown in the view at the left. 



NAIUBS AND USES OP CUTS 

31. Distinguishing Features of Cuts. — ^When the uses of 
the cuts of lamb and mutton are to be considered, attention must 
be given to the anatomy of the animal and the exercise that the 
different parts have received during life. This is important, because 
the continued action of the muscles tends to make the flesh tough, 
but, at the same time, it increases the amount of extractives or flavor- 
ing material. Therefore, meat taken from a part that has been 



16 



MEAT 



§11 



subjected to much muscular action is likely to need longer cooking 

than that taken from portions that have not been exercised so much. 

In lamb and mutton, as in beef and veal, the hind quarter is 

exercised less in life than the fore quarter and consequently is, on 




Fig. 8 



the average, more tender. The cuts from this part are therefore 
more expensive and more suitable for roasting and broiling. The 



§ 11 MEAT 17 

fore quarter, although having the disadvantage of containing more 
bone and being tougher, is more abundantly supplied with extrac- 
tives and flavoring materials. Most of the pieces obtained from this 
portion are particularly suitable for broths, soups, stews, etc. The 
rib is an exception, for this is usually higher in price than the hind- 
quarter pieces and is used for chops and roasts. 

32. Table of Mutton and Lamb Cuts. — The various cuts 
of mutton and lamb and the uses to which they can be put are given 
in Table II, which may be followed as a guide whenever there is 
doubt as to the way in which a cut of either of these meats should 
be cooked. 

TABLE II 

TTAMES AND USES OP MUTTON AND LAMB CUTS 

Name OF Large Name of Small ^^^^ ^^ ^^^^ 

Cut Cut 

Neck Broth, stew 

Chuck Stew, steamed 

Shoulder Boiled, steamed, braised, roast 

Rack ribs Chops, crown roast 

Breast Stew, roast, braised, stuffed 

Loin Seven chops, roast, boiling 

Flank Stew 

Leg Roast, braising, broiling 

Saddle Roast 



Fore quarter 



Hind quarter 



COOKING OF MUTTON AND LAMB 



PREPARATION OP ROASTS, CHOPS, AND STEAVS 

33. The cookery processes applied in preparing mutton and 
lamb for the table do not differ materially from those applied in the 
preparation of other meats. However, directions for cooking mut- 
ton and lamb in the most practical ways are here given, so that the 
housewife may become thoroughly familiar w'th the procedure in 
preparing roasts, chops, and stews. 

34. Roast Leg of Mutton or Lamb. — Of all the principal 
cuts of mutton or lamb, the leg contains the smallest percentage of 
waste. It is, therefore, especially suitable for roasting and is gener- 
ally used for this purpose. In Fig. 9 are shown two views of a leg 



18 



MEAT 



§11 




(O) 



of lamb or mutton. That in (a) illustrates the leg with part of the 

loin attached, and that in (b), the leg trimmed and ready for cook- 
ing. In order to make the 
leg smaller, a slice resem- 
bling a round steak of 
beef is sometimes cut for 
broiling, as here shown. 
If desired, the leg may be 
boned and then stuffed 
before roasting. Since 
these meats are character- 
ized by a very marked 
flavor, something tart or 
acid is generally served 
with them. 

To roast a leg of lamb 
or mutton, remove the 
caul, the pink skin, and the 
superfluous fat. Dredge 
the leg with flour, salt, 
and pepper, set in a roast- 
ing pan, and place in a 
hot oven. After the meat 
has cooked for 15 min- 
utes, lower the temper- 
ature, and bake for 2 
hours. Baste frequently 
with water to which has 
been added a small 
amount of bacon or ham 
fat and which should be 

put in the pan with the meat. Serve hot with something acid, such 

as mint sauce, currant or mint jelly, or spiced fruit. 

A mint sauce that will be found satisfactory for this purpose is 

made as follows : 

Mint Sauce 
2 Tb. powdered sugar i c. finely chopped mint leaves, 

i c. vinegar or 2 Tb. dried mint 

Add the sugar to the vinegar and heat. Pour this over the mint 
and steep on the back of the stove for 30 minutes. 




§11 



MEAT 



19 



35. Boast Saddle of Mutton.' — ^While saddle is the name 
applied to the hind quarters of lamb and mutton, this term, as used 
in the cooking of such meat, refers to the piece that consists of the 
two sides of the loin cut off in one piece. It may be cut with or 
without the flank. In either form, it is rolled and then skewered or 
tied into shape. 

To roast such a piece, remove all superfluous fat, dredge with 
flour, salt, and pepper, place in a pan, and sear in a hot oven. Then 
reduce the heat, place a small quantity of water in the pan, and bake 
for 2^ to 3 hours, basting from time to time during this cooking 
process. Serve with or without mint sauce, as desired. 

36. Crown Roast of Lamb. — A very attractive roast is made 
by cutting the same number of corresponding ribs from each side 
of the lamb and trimming back the meat from the end of each rib. 
Such a roast is called a crown roast. Fig. 10 shows a crown roast 




Fig. 10 

with the ribs trimmed, the two pieces fastened together, and paper 
frills placed on the ends of the bones. Such frills are usually 
added by the butcher, but they may be purchased in supply stores 
and put on in the home. 

To prepare a roast of this kind, cook in the same way as a roast 
leg or saddle. When it is sufficiently baked, fill the center with a 
cooked and seasoned vegetable. Brussels sprouts, peas, string beans, 
asparagus, and cauliflower are especially suitable for this purpose. 



20 



MEAT 



§11 



Just before serving, cover the ends of the bones with paper frills, as 
shown in the illustration. 

37. Lamh and Mutton Chops. — Chops of mutton or lamb 
are obtained from two sources. They may be cut from the ribs 
and have one bone in each cut or they may be cut from the loin. 




Fig. 11 

when they correspond to the steaks in beef. The loins and ribs of 
lamb, which are sometimes used for rolled racks, but from which 
chops are usually cut, are shown in Fig. 11. A rib chop cut from 
this piece has only a small part of solid lean meat and contains one 
rib bone. Such a chop can be made into a French chop, as shown in 
Fig. 12, by trimming the meat from the bone down to the lean part, 
or "eye," of the chop. Just before being served, a paper frill may 
be placed over the bone of a chop of this kind. Chops cut from the 




Fig. 12 

loin often have a strip of bacon or salt pork rolled around the edge 
and fastened with a skewer, as shown in Fig. 13. 

38. The most satisfactory way in which to prepare chops is 
either to broil them in a broiler or to pan-broil them. Apply to the 
cooking of them the same principles that relate to the preparation of 
steaks ; that is, have the pan or broiler hot, sear the chops quickly 
on both sides, and then cook thera more slowly until well done, turn- 



§il 



MEAT 



21 



ing them frequently. The broiling of lamb chops should require 
only from 8 to 10 minutes, as they are seldom more than 1 inch 
thick. 

39. Lamb and Mutton Stews. — The cheaper cuts of lamb 
and mutton, such as the neck, chuck, and flank, are usted for the 
making of stews. Mutton, however, is not so satisfactory as lamb 
for such dishes, as its flavor is too strong. If mutton must be used, 
its flavor can be improved by adding 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 
during the cooking. The chief object in the making of lamb and 
mutton stews is, as in the case of beef and veal stews, to draw from 
the meat as much as possible of the flavoring and nutritive mate- 




FiG. 13 

rials. This can be accomplished by cutting up the meat into small 
pieces so as to increase the amount of surface exposed and by keep- 
ing the temperature low enough to prevent the proteins from coag- 
ulating. 

With these points in mind, proceed in the making of lamb or 
mutton stew in the same way as for beef stew. To improve the 
flavor of the stew, cook with it savory herbs and spices, such as bay 
leaf, parsley, and cloves. 

PREPARATION OP I/EFT-OVER LAMB AND MUTTON 

40. Turkish Lamb. — No left-over meat lends itself more 

readily to the preparation of made dishes than lamb. Combined 

with tomatoes and rice and flavored with horseradish, it makes a 

very appetizing dish called Turkish lamb. The accompanying recipe 

should be carefully followed in preparing this dish. 

Turkish Lamb 
(SufGcient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter H c. diced lamb or mutton 

1 onion, chopped 1 Tb. horseradish 

i c. rice 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. water -J tsp. pepper 
1 c. stewed tomatoes 



22 MEAT § 11 

Put the butter in a frying pan and to it add the chopped onion 
and the dry rice. Cook until the rice is browned. Then pour in 
the water and tomatoes and add the meat, horseradish, salt, and 
pepper. Simmer gently until the rice is completely cooked. 

41. Minced Lamb on Toast. — Any lamb that remains after 
a meal may be minced by chopping it fine or putting it through the 
food chopper. If it is then heated, moistened well with water or 
stock, and thickened slightly, it makes an excellent preparation to 
serve on toast. 

After mincing lean pieces of left-over lamb until they are very 
fine, put them in a buttered frying pan. Dredge the meat well with 
flour and allow it to brown slightly. Add enough water or stock to 
moisten well. Season with salt and pepper, cook until the flour has 
thickened, and then serve on toast. 

42. Scalloped Lamb or Mutton. — ^As a scalloped dish is 
usually pleasing to most persons, the accompanying recipe for scal- 
loped lamb or mutton will undoubtedly find favor. Both macaroni 
and tomatoes are combined with the meat in this dish, but rice could 
be substituted for the macaroni, if desired. 

To make scalloped lamb or mutton, arrange a layer of buttered 
crumbs in a baking dish, and on top of them place a layer of cooked 
macaroni, a layer of meat, and then another layer of macaroni. 
Over this pour enough stewed tomato to moisten the whole well. 
Season each layer with salt, pepper, and butter. Over the top, place 
a layer of buttered crumbs. Bake in a medium-hot oven until the 
whole is thoroughly heated. 

43. Spanish. Stew. — Left-over pieces of mutton or lamb may 
also form the foundation of a very appetizing dish known as Spanish 
stew. Here tomatoes are also used, and to give the stew flavor chilli 
sauce is added. 

Spanish Stew 

(Sufficient lo Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter 1 c. stock or gravy 

1 onion, sliced 1 Tb. chilli sauce 

1 Tb. flour 1 red pepper, cut fine 

2 c. lamb or mutton, diced 2 tsp. salt 
lie. stewed tomatoes 

Put the butter in a frying pan and brown the sliced onion in it. 
Add the flour and meat, and after browning them pour in the stewed 



§ 11 MEAT 23 

tomatoes and the stock or gravy. Season with the chilli sauce, the 
red pepper, and the salt. Cover and let simmer until the whole is 
well thickened and blended. 

44. Individual Lamb Pies. — Individual pies are always 
welcome, but when they are made of lamb or mutton they are 
especially attractive. The proportions required for pies of this 
kind are given in the accompanying recipe. 
Individual Lamb Pies 
2 c. diced lamb or mutton | c. peas, cooked or canned 

^ c. diced carrots 1 c. gravy or thickened stock 

Cut into small pieces any left-over Iamb or mutton. Cook the 
carrots until they are soft, add them, together with the peas, to the 
meat, and pour the gravy or thickened stock over all. Simmer 
gently for a few minutes. Line patty pans with a thin layer of 
baking-powder biscuit dough, fill with the mixture, and cover the 
top with another thin layer of the dough. Bake in a quick oven until 
the dough is baked. 

PORK 



GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PORK 

45. Pork is the flesh of slaughtered swine used as food. It is 
believed to be more indigestible than other meats, but if it is obtained 
from a young and properly fed animal, it is not only digestible, but 
highly appetizing, and, when eaten occasionally, it is very whole- 
some. 

The age of the animal from which pork is cut can be determined 
by the thickness of the skin; the older the animal, the thicker the 
skin. To be of the best kind, pork should have pink, not red, flesh 
composed of fine-grained tissues, and its fat, which, in a well- 
fattened animal, equals about one-eighth of the entire weight, should 
be white and firm. Although all cuts of pork contain some fat, the 
proportion should not be too great, or the pieces will not contain 
as much lean as they should. However, the large amount of fat 
contained in pork makes its food value higher than that of other 
m'eats, unless they are excessively fat, and consequently difficult of 
digestion. 



24 MEAT § 11 

46. One of the chief advantages of pork is that about nine- 
tenths of the entire dressed animal may be preserved by curing and 
smoking. Originally, these processes required a period of 2 to 
3 months for their completion, but they have gradually been short- 
ened until now only a few days are required for the work. Pork 
cured and smoked by the new methods, however, does not possess 
such excellent flavor and such good keeping qualities as that so 
treated by the longer process. Any one who has the right storage 
facilities to care for the meat properly will find it much more 
economical to purchase a whole carcass or a part of one and then 
salt, smoke, or pickle the various pieces that can be treated in this 
way than to purchase this meat cut by cut as it is needed or desired. 



CUTS OF PORK 

47. Names of Pork Cuts. — The butcher usually buys a whole 
carcass of pork. He first divides it into halves by splitting it 
through the spine, and then cuts it up into smaller pieces according 
to the divisions shown in Fig. 14, which illustrates the outside and 
the inside of a dressed hog. As will be observed, the method of 
cutting up a hog differs greatly from the cutting of the animals 
already studied. After the head is removed, each side is divided 
into the shoulder, clear back fat, ribs, loin, middle cut, belly, ham, 
and two hocks. 

48. Uses of Pork Cuts. — Hogs are usually fattened before 
they are slaughtered, and as a result there is a layer of fat under 
the skin which is trimmed off and used in the making of lard. The 
best quality of lard, however, is made from the fat that surrounds 
the kidneys. This is called leaf lard, because the pieces of fat are 
similar in shape to leaves. Such lard has a higher melting point 
and is more flaky than that made from fat covering the muscles. 

49. The head of pork does not contain a great deal of meat, 
but, as the quality of this meat is very good, it is valuable for a 
number of special dishes, such as headcheese and scrapple. 

The hocks contain considerable gelatine, so they are used for 
dishes that solidify, or become firm, after they are made. 

50. A shoulder of pork cut roughly from the carcass is shown 
in Fig. 15. This piece provides both roasts and steaks, or, when 




Fig. 14 



2S 




Fig. 15 




Fio. 16 




Fig. 17 



36 



$11 



MEAT 



27 



trimmed, it may be cured or smoked. The front leg, which is 
usually cut to include the lower part of the shoulder, is shown in 
Fig. 16. The ribs inside this cut, when cut from underneath, are 








Fig. 18 

sold as spareribs. This piece, as shown in Fig. 17, is generally 
trimmed to make what is known as shoulder ham. 

51. The ribs and the loin cut in one piece are shown in Fig. 18. 
From this piece are obtained the most desirable chops and roasts. 
When a roast is desired, the rib bones are removed from the rib 
cut, which then resembles the piece shown in Fig. 19. Directly 
under the backbone in these cuts is the tenderest piece of pork to be 
had. When this is removed in one piece, it is, as in beef, called the 




Fig. 19 

tenderloin. Very often, however, it is left in to be cut up with the 
rest of the loin. 

52. The middle cut is commonly used for bacon, while the belly 
is most suitable for salt pork. These two cuts consist of large quan- 

WI-C3-9 



28 



MEAT 



§11 



titles of fat and only narrow layers of lean. They are especially 
valuable for enriching and flavoring foods, such as beans, that are 
neither rich in fat nor highly flavored. 

53. The hind leg, or untrimmed ham, just as it is cut from the 
carcass, is shown in Fig. 20. When this piece is trimmed and ready 




Fig. 20 

for curing or for roasting, it appears as shown in Fig. 21. As will oe 
noticed, the outside skin, or rind, is not removed from either the 
shoulder or the ham. 

54. Table of Pork Cuts. — As is done in explaining the meats 
that have been considered previously, there is here presented a table. 




Fig. 21 



designated as Table III, that gives the names of the pork cuts and 
the uses to which they may be put. This table will assist the house- 



§ 11 MEAT 29 

wife materially in learning the names and uses of the various cuts 
of pork. 

TABLE III 
names and uses of pork cuts 

Names of Cuts Uses of Cuts 

Head Headcheese, boiling, baking 

Shoulder Steaks, roasting, curing, smoking 

Spareribs Roasting, boiling 

Belly Salt pork, curing 

Middle cut Bacon, curing, smoking 

Ribs Chops, roasting 

Loin Chops, roasting 

Ham Roasting, curing, smoking 

Back fat Lard 

Hock Boiling, making jelly 

Internal organs and trimmings Sausage 



COOKING OF PORK 



FRESH PORK AND ITS PREPARATION 

55. Roast Pork. — In the preparation of pprk for the table, 
and a roast in particular, several points must be taken into consider- 
ation. Unlike beef, which is often served rare, pork must be well 
done in order to be satisfactory. Rare pork to most persons is 
repulsive. Also, as a large part of the surface of a pork roast, 
especially one cut from the shoulder, loin, or ribs, is covered with 
a layer of fat, pork does not have to be seared to prevent the loss 
of juice, nor does it have to be put into such a hot oven as that 
required for beef. In fact, if the temperature of the oven is very 
high, the outside will finish cooking before the heat has had a chance 
to penetrate sufficiently to cook the center. While this makes no 
difference with meat that does not need to be thoroughly cooked, it 
is a decided disadvantage in the case of pork. 

56. When a shoulder of pork is to be roasted, it makes a very 
satisfactory dish if it is boned and stuffed before roasting. To bone 
such a piece, run a long, narrow knife all around the bone and cut 
it loose; then pick up the bone by one end and shake it until it will 
pull out. Fill the opening thus formed with bread or cracker 
stuffing. 



30 MEAT § 11 

If an especially inviting roast of pork is desired, a crown roast 
should be selected, for this is just as attractive as a crown roast of 
lamb. It is made by cutting corresponding pieces from each side 
of the rib piece, trimming the bones clean as far back as the lean 
part of the chops, and fastening the pieces together. A garnish of 
fried apple rings is very attractive for such a roast. 

57. To cook a roast of any of these varieties, wipe the meat 
thoroughly, dredge it with flour, salt, and pepper, and place it on a 
rack in a dripping pan. Bake about 3 hours, depending on the size 
of the roast, and baste every 15 minutes with fat from the bottom 
of the dripping pan. 

After the roast is removed from tne roastmg pan, make a gravy 
as for any other roast. Serve with apple sauce, baked apples, cran- 
berry sauce, chilli sauce, pickles, or some other acid dish. Such an 
accompaniment aids considerably in the digestion of pork, for it 
cuts the large amount of fat that this meat contains and that so often 
retards the digestion, and hastens the fat through the stomach. 

58. Roast Pig. — In some households, roasted pig is the 
favorite meat for the Thanksgiving or the Christmas dinner. There 
is sufficient reason for its popularity, for when properly prepared 
and attractively garnished, roasted pig offers a pleasing change 
from the meat usually served on such days. 

To be suitable for roasting, a pig should be not more tnan i month 
or 6 weeks old and should not weigh more than 7 or 8 pounds after 
it is cleaned. The butcher should prepare it for cooking by scalding 
off the hair, washing the pig thoroughly, inside and out, and with- 
drawing the entrails of the animal through an incision made in the 
under part of the body. 

59. When the pig is received in the home, wash it thoroughly, 
within and without, wipe it dry, and fill it with stuffing. To make a 
stuffing suitable for this purpose, season 2 quarts of fine bread 
crumbs with 4 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and i cupful of melted butter. Mix 
thoroughly and add 3 beaten eggs. If the stuffing needs moisture, 
add water or milk. Stuff the pig firmly with this stuffing, using 
every effort to restore its original shape. Then sew up the opening 
and truss the animal ; that is, draw the hind legs forwards and bend 
the front legs backwards under the body, and skewer and tie them 
into place. 



§ 11 MEAT 31 

With the animal in this shape, wipe it off with a damp cloth, 
dredge it with flour, and place it in a dripping pan, adding 1 cupful 
of boiling water in which 1 teaspoonful of salt has been dissolved. 
Roast in a moderate oven for at least 1^ hours, or 20 minutes for 
each pound of pig. Baste frequently, first with butter and water 
and later with drippings. When the skin begins to brown slightly, 
rub over it a clean piece of cloth dipped in melted butter. Repeat 
this operation every 10 minutes until the meat is well done. Then 
remove the pig to a hot platter and garnish with parsley, lettuce, 
celery, or fried or baked apples. If a more ornamental garnishing 
is desired, place a lemon in the mouth and use cranberries for the 
eyes. In carving, cut the head off, split through the spine length- 
wise, remove the legs, and cut the ribs so as to form chops. 

60. Sauted, or Broiled. Pork. — Slices cut from the ribs and 
loin of pork are called chops, and those obtained from the shoulder 
and hind legs are called steaks. These, together with the tenderloin, 
the small piece of lean, tender meat lying under the bones of the 
loin and seldom weighing more than a pound, are especially suitable 
for sauteing or broiling.. When they are to be prepared by these 
processes, saute or broil them as any other meat, remembering, 
however, that pork must be well done. Because of this fact, a more 
moderate temperature must be employed than that used for beef- 
steak. 

61. Pork Chops In Tomato Sauce. — A slight change from 
the usual way of preparing pork chops can be had by cooking them 
with tomatoes. The combination of these two foods produces a 
dish having a very agreeable flavor. 

First brown the chops in their own fat in a frying pan, turning them 
frequently so that the surfaces will become evenly browned. When 
they have cooked for 15 minutes, pour enough strained stewed 
tomatoes over them to cover them well, and season with salt and 
pepper. Cover the pan tight, and allow them to simmer until the 
tomatoes become quite thick. Place the chops on a hot platter, pour 
the tomato sauce over them, and serve hot. 

62. Sauted Tenderloin of Pork. — Since the tenderloin of 
pork is a very tender piece of meat, it needs no accompaniment to 
make it a delicious dish, but sometimes a change of preparation is 
welcomed in order to give variety to the diet. The accompanying 



32 MEAT § 11 

directions should therefore be followed when something different 
from broiled tenderloin is desired. 

Cut the tenderloin into lengthwise slices and brown these slices 
in melted butter, turning them several times. Then remove to a 
cooler part of the stove, and let them cook slowly in the butter for 
15 minutes, taking care to have them closely covered and turning 
them once or twice so that they will cook evenly. At the end of this 
time, pour enough milk or cream in the pan to cover the meat well 
and cook for 15 minutes longer. With a skimmer, remove the meat; 
which should be very tender by this time, from the pan, and put it 
where it will keep hot. Make a gravy of the drippings that remain 
in the pan by thickening it with 1 tablespoonful of flour, stirring it 
until it is thick and smooth and seasoning it to taste with salt and 
pepper. Pour the gravy over the meat and serve hot. 

63. Pork Sausage. — The trimmings and some of the internal 
organs of pork are generally utilized to make sausage by chopping 
them very fine and then highly seasoning the chopped meat. Pork 
in this form may be bought fresh or smoked and loose or in casings. 
It usually contains considerable fat and therefore shrinks upon being 
cooked, for the fat is melted by the heat and runs out of the sausage. 

To cook pork sausages put up in casings, place the required num- 
ber in a hot frying pan with a small quantity of hot water. Cover 
the pan with a lid and allow the sausages to cook. When they have 
swelled up and the skins, or casings, look as if they would burst, 
remove the cover and thoroughly prick each one with a sharp fork, 
so as to allow the fat and the water to run out. Then allow the water 
to evaporate and saute the sausages in their own fat, turning them 
frequently until they are well browned. 

To cook loose pork sausage, shape it into thin, flat cakes. Grease 
a frying pan slightly, in order to keep the cakes from sticking to 
the surface, place the cakes in the pan, and allow them to cook in 
the fat that fries out, turning them occasionally until both sides are 
well browned. 



CURED PORK AND ITS PREPARATIOX 

64. Under the heading of cured pork may be included many 
of the cuts of pork, for a large part of a pork carcass can be pre- 
served by curing. However, this term is usually restricted to 
include salt pork, bacon, and ham. As has already been learned, 



§11 



MEAT 



33 



salt, pork is obtained from the belly ; bacon, from the middle cut ; and 
ham, from the two hind legs of pork. 

65. Salt Pork. — As the cut used for salt pork is almost 
entirely fat, this piece is seldom used alone for the table. Occasion- 
ally, it is broiled to be served with some special food, such as fried 
apples, but for the most part it is used for larding; that is, slices of 
it are laid across the surface of meat and fish that are lacking in fat 
and that therefore cook better and have a more agreeable flavor 
when fat in some form is added. Pork of this kind is usually 
bought by the pound and then sliced by the housewife as it is needed 
for cooking purposes. 

66. Bacon. — The middle cut of pork, upon being cured by 
smoking, is regarded as bacon. It is sometimes used for larding 




Fig. 22 

purposes, but as it contains more lean than salt pork, has a very 
pleasing flavor, and is the most easily digested fat known, it is much 
used for food. A piece that contains the usual proportion of fat 
and lean is shown in Fig. 22. The strip of fat that occurs between 
the rind, or outer coat, and the first layer of lean is the firmest and 
the best for larding. The fat that fries out of bacon is excellent 
for use in the cooking and seasoning of other foods, such as vege- 
tables and meats. When bacon is cooked for the table, its flavor will 
be improved if it is broiled rather than fried in its own fat. The 
rind of bacon should, as a rule, be trimmed off, but it should never 
be wasted, for it may be used to grease a pancake griddle or any 
pan in which food is to be cooked, provided the bacon flavor will 
not be objectionable. 



34 MEAT § 11 

In purchasing bacon, it is usually more economical to buy the 
whole side, or the entire middle cut, but if smaller quantities are 
desired, any amount, either in one piece or in slices, may be bought. 
The commercially cut bacon, which is very thin and becomes very 
crisp in its preparation, may be bought with the rind retained or 
removed. In both of these forms, it is often put up in jars or packed 
neatly in flat pasteboard boxes. While such bacon is undoubtedly 
the most popular kind, it should be remembered' that the more 
preparation that is put on such a food before it enters the home, 
the more expensive it becomes. Very satisfactory results can be 
obtained from bacon bought in the piece if care is used in cutting 
it. To secure very thin, even slices, a knife having a thin blade that 
is kept sharp and in good condition should always be used. 

67. Bacon and 'Eggs. — There are many combinations in which 
bacon is one of the foods, but no more palatable one can be found 
than bacon and eggs. This is generally a breakfast dish ; still there 
is no reason why it cannot be used at times for luncheon or supper 
to give variety. 

To prepare this combination of foods, first pan-broil the desired 
number of slices of bacon in a hot frying pan until they are crisp and 
then remove them to a warm platter. Into the fat that has fried 
out of the bacon, put the required number of eggs, which have first 
been broken into a saucer. Fry them until they reach the desired 
degree of hardness, and then remove to the platter containing the 
bacon. Serve by placing a slice or two of bacon on the plate with 
each egg. 

68. Bacon Combined With. Other Foods. — Many other 
foods may be fried in the same way as eggs and served with bacon. 
For instance, sliced apples or sliced tomatoes fried in bacon fat 
until they become tender, but not mushy, are delicious when served 
with crisp pieces of bacon. Also, cold cereals, such as cream of 
wheat, oatmeal, corn-meal mush, etc., may be sliced and fried until 
crisp and then served with bacon. 

69. Ham. — The hind leg of pork, when cured and smoked, is 
usually known as ham. Fig.. 23 shows a ham from which the rind 
has not been removed. In such a ham, the proportion of fat and 
lean is about right, but when ham is bought with the rind removed, 
much of the fat is also taken off. The best hams we^h from 8 to 



§11 



MEAT 



35 



15 pounds, and have a thin skin, solid fat, and a small, short 
tapering leg or shank. 

Several ways of cooking ham are in practice. Very oftefi slices 
resembling slices of round steak are cut from the whole ham and 
then fried or broiled. If a larger quantity is desired, the entire ham 
or a thick cut may be purchased. This is boiled or baked and then 
served hot or cold. It is a good idea to purchase an entire ham and 
keep it in supply, cutting off slices as they are desired. In such an 
event, the ham should be kept carefully wrapped and should be 
hung in a cool, dry place. In cutting a ham, begin at the large end, 
as in Fig. 23, and cut off slices until the opposite end becomes too 




Fig. 23 

small to make good slices. The piece that remains may be cooked 
with vegetables, may be boiled and served either hot or cold, or, if 
it is only a small piece, may be used for making soup. 

70. Broiled Ham. — ^The methods of broiling and pan broiling 
are very satisfactory when applied to ham that is cut in slices. 
Ham is pan-broiled in the same way as other meats. To broil ham, 
place slices 1 inch thick on the hot broiler rack and sear quickly on 
both sides. Then reduce the temperature and broil for 15 to 18 min- 
utes, turning the ham every few minutes until done. Remove to a 
hot platter. Add a little water to the drippings in the broiler pan, 
pour this over the meat, and serve at onc& 



36 MEAT § 11 

71. Ham Baked, in Milk. — ^A change from the usual ways 
of preparing slices of ham can be had by baking them in milk. A 
point to remember in carrying out this method is that the meat must 
bake slowly in order to be tender when it is done. 

Secure a 2-inch slice of ham, place it in a dripping pan, and com- 
pletely cover it with milk. Put in a moderate oven and cook for 2 
or more hours. When the ham is done, its surface should be brown 
and the milk should be almost entirely evaporated. If the liquid 
added in the beginning is not sufficient, more may be added during 
the baking. 

72. Boiled Ham. — Sometimes it is desired to cook an entire 
ham, particularly when a large number of persons are to be served. 
The usual way to prepare a whole ham is to boil it. When it is 
sufficiently cooked, it may be served hot or kept until it is cold and 
then served in slices. Nothing is more appetizing for a light meal, 
as luncheon or supper, or for picnic lunches than cold sliced ham. 
Then, too, boiled ham is very delicious when it is fried until the 
edges are crisp. 

To prepare boiled ham, first soak the ham in cold water for 
several hours and then remove it and scrub it. Place it in a large 
kettle with the fat side down and cover well with cold water. Put 
over a slow fire and allow to come to the boiling point very slowly. 
Boil for 15 minutes and skim off the scum that has risen. Sim- 
mer slowly for about 5 hours, or at least 25 minutes for each 
pound of ham. Take from the kettle and remove the skin about 
two-thirds of the way back. It will be found that the skin will peel 
off easily when the ham is cooked enough. Garnish in any desirable 
way and serve hot or cold. 

73. Baked Ham. — Another very appetizing way in which to 

cook an entire ham is to bake it. This involves both cooking in 
water on the top of the stove and baking in the oven. While this 
recipe, as well as those preceding, specifies ham, it should be remem- 
bered that shoulder may be cooked in the same ways. 

For baked ham, proceed in the way just explained for boiled ham, 
but boil only 12 minutes for each pound. Take the ham from the 
kettle and allow it to cool enough to permit it to be handled. 
Remove the skin. Then place the ham in a roasting pan and pour 
over it 1 cupful of water. Bake 12 minutes for each paund and 
baste frequently while baking. Serve hot or cold. 



§ il MEAT 37 



PREPARATION OP LSJPT-OVER PORK 

74. Cold Pork With Pried Apples. — A combination that 
most persons find agreeable and that enables the housewife to use 
up left-over pork, is cold pork and fried apples. To prepare this 
dish, remove the cores from sour apples and cut the apples into 
^-inch slices. Put these in a frying pan containing hot bacon fat 
and fry until soft and well browned. Slice cold pork thin and place 
in the center of a platter. Arrange the apples around the pork in 
a border. 

75. Scalloped Pork and Cabbage. — If not enough pork 
remains to serve alone, it can be combined with cabbage to make a 
most appetizing scalloped dish. The accompanying recipe shows just 
how to prepare such a dish. 

Scalloped Pork and Cabbage 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. small thin slices of pork 1^ c. thin white sauce 

1^ c. cooked chopped cabbage | c. buttered crumbs 

Arrange the pork and cabbage in layers in a baking dish, having 
a layer of cabbage on top. Pour the white sauce over all and 
sprinkle the crumbs on top. Bake until the sauce boils and the 
crumbs are brown. 

76. Mock Chicken Salad. — The similarity in appearance 

of pork to chicken makes it possible to prepare a salad of cold pork 

that is a very good substitute for chicken salad. A salad of this kind 

can be used as the main dish in such a meal as luncheon or supper. 

Mock Chicken Salad 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 Tb. vinegar 1^ c. diced celery 

2 c. diced pork Salad dressing 

Heat the vinegar and pour it over the diced pork. Set aside to 
chill. When ready to serve, add the diced celery and mix well. 
Pour the salad dressing over all and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 



38 MEAT § XI 



SERVING AND CARVING OF MEAT 

77. The manner of carving and serving meat in the home 
depends to some extent on the kind of meat that is to be served. A 
way that is favored by some is to carve the meat before it is placed 
on the table and then serve it according to the style of service used. 
However, the preferable way is to place the platter containing the 
meat on the table, together with the plates, in front of the person 
who is to do the carving and serving. 

The carver should use considerable care in cutting and serving 
the meat so that the platter and the surrounding tablecloth will not 
become unsightly. To make each portion as attractive as possible, 
it should be cut off evenly and then placed on the plate with the 
best side up. Furthermore, the carving should be done in an econom- 
ical way in order that whatever remains after the first serving may 
be served later in the same meal, and what is not eaten at the first 
meal may be utilized to advantage for another. To obtain the best 
results in carving, a good carving knife should be secured and it 
should always be kept well sharpened. 

78. With the general directions clear in mind, the methods of 
carving and serving particular kinds of meat may be taken up. 
Chops, of course, require no carving. By means of a large fork, 
one should be placed on each person's plate. Steaks and roasts, 
however, need proper cutting in order that equally good pieces may 
be served to each person dining. To carve a steak properly, cut it 
across from side to side so that each piece will contain a portion of 
the tender part, as well as a share of the tougher part. When cut, 
the pieces should be strips that are about as wide as the steak is 
thick. It is often advisable to remove the bone from some steaks 
before placing them on the table. 

79. Roasts require somewhat more attention than steaks. 
Before they are placed on the table, any cord used for tying should 
be cut and removed and all skewers inserted to hold the meat in shape 
should be pulled out. To carve a roast of any kind, run the fork 
into the meat deeply enough to hold it firmly and then cut the meat 



§ 11 MEAT 39 

into thin slices across the grain. In the case of a roast leg that con- 
tains the bone, begin to carve the meat from the large end, cutting 
each sHce down to the bone and then off so that the bone is left 
clean. Place round of beef and rolled roasts on the platter so that 
the tissue side, and not the skin side, is up, and then cut the slices off 
in a horizontal direction. To carve a rib roast properly, cut it 
parallel with the ribs and separate the pieces from the backbone. 



SAUSAGES AND MEAT PREPARATIONS 

80. In addition to the fresh, raw meats that the housewife can 
procure for her family, there are on the market numerous varieties 
of raw, smoked, cooked, and partly cooked meats, which are gener- 
ally included under the term sausages. These meats are usually 
highly seasoned, so they keep better than do fresh meats. They 
should not be overlooked by the housewife, for they help to simplify 
her labor and at the same time serve to give variety to the family 
diet. Still, it should be remembered that when meats are made 
ready for use before they are put on the market, the cost of the 
labor involved in their manufacture is added to the price charged 
for them. For this reason, the housewife must be prepared to pay 
more for meats of this kind than she would pay if she could prepare 
them at home. However, she need not be concerned regarding their 
safety, for the government's inspection and regulations prevent any 
adulteration of them. 

81. Among the numerous varieties of these meats, many of them 
are tjTpical of certain localities, while others have a national or an 
international reputation. They also vary in the kind of meat used 
to make them. Some of them are made from beef, as frankfurters 
and certain kinds of bologna, while others are made from pork and 
include the smoked and unsmoked sausages. Liverwurst is made 
from the livers of certain animals, and may be purchased loose or 
in skins. 

Some of these sausages are used so often in certain combinations 
of foods that they are usually thought of in connection with the 
foods that it is customary for them to accompany. Frankfurters 
and sauerkraut, pork sausage and mashed potatoes, liverwurst and 
fried corn-meal mush are well-known combinations of this kind. 



40 MEAT § 11 

82. Closely allied to these sausages, although not one of them, 
is a meat preparation much used in some localities and known as 
scrapple, or ponhasse. This is prepared by cooking the head of pork, 
removing the meat from the bones, and chopping it very fine. The 
pieces of meat are then returned to the broth in which the head was 
cooked and enough corn meal to thicken the liquid is stirred in. 
After the whole has boiled sufficiently, it is turned into molds and 
allowed to harden. When it is cold and hard, it can be cut into 
slices, which are sauted in hot fat. 

83. Besides scrapple, numerous other meat preparations, such 
as meat loaves of various kinds and pickled pig's feet, can usually 
be obtained in the market. While the thrifty housewife does not 
make a habit of purchasing meats of this kind regularly, there are 
times when they are a great convenience and also afford an oppor- 
tunity to vary the diet. 

PREPARATION OF FOODS BY DEEP-FAT 
FRYING 



PRINCIPLES OF DEEP-FAT FRYING 

84. Up to this point, all frying of foods has been done by 
sauteing them ; that is, frying them quickly in a small amount of fat. 
The other method of frying, which involves cooking food quickly 
in deep fat at a temperature of 350 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit, is 
used so frequently in the preparation of many excellent meat 
dishes, particularly in the use of left-overs, that specific directions 
for it are here given, together with several recipes that afford prac- 
tice in its use. No difficulty will be experienced in applying this 
method to these recipes or to other recipes if the underlying prin- 
ciples of deep-fat frying are thoroughly understood and the proper 
utensils for this work are secured. 

85. In the first place, it should be remembered that if foods 
prepared in this way are properly done, they are not so indigestible 
as they are oftentimes supposed to be, but that incorrect preparation 
makes for indigestibility in the finished product. For instance, 
allowing the food to soak up quantities of fat during the frying is 
neither economical nor conducive to a digestible dish. To avoid 
such a condition, it is necessary that the mixture to be fried be made 



§11 



MEAT 



41 



of the proper materials and be prepared in the right way. One of 
the chief requirements is that the surface of the mixture be properly 
coated with a protein material, such as egg or egg and milk, before 
it is put into the fat or that the mixture contain the correct pro- 
portion of egg so that its outside surface will accomplish the same 
purpose. The reason for this requirement is that the protein mate- 
rial is quickly coagulated by the hot fat and thus prevents the 
entrance of fat into the inside material of the fried food. 

Care must be taken also in the selection of the fat that is used 
for deep-fat frying. This may be in the form of an oil or a solid 
fat and may be either a vegetable or an animal fat. However, a 
vegetable fat is usually 
preferred, as less smoke 
results from it and less 
flavor of the fat remains 
in the food after it is 
cooked. 

86. The utensils re- 
quired for deep-fat fry- 
ing are shown in Fig. 24. 
They consist of a wire 
basket and a pan into 
which the basket will fit. 
As will be observed, the 
pan in which the fat is 
put has an upright metal 
piece on the side opposite the handle. Over this fits a piece of wire 
with which the basket is equipped and which is attached to the side 
opposite the handle of the basket. This arrangement makes it 
possible to drain the fat from whatever food has been fried without 
having to hold the basket over the pan. 




Fig. 24 



APPLICATION OF DEEP-FAT FRYING 

87. With the principles of deep-fat frying well in mind, th/ 
actual work of frying foods by this method may be taken up.. 
Numerous foods and preparations may be subjected to this form 
of cookery, but attention is given at this time to only croquettes and 
timbale cases. Croquettes are small balls or patties usually made 



4:2 



MEAT 



§11 



of some finely minced food and fried until brown. Timbale cases 
are shells in which various creamed foods are served. As these two 
preparations are representative of the various dishes that can be 
cooked by frying in deep fat, the directions given for these, if care- 
fully mastered, may be applied to many other foods. 

88. Frying of Croquettes. — After the mixture that is to be 
fried has been prepared, and while the croquettes are being shaped, 
have the fat heating in the deep pan, as in Fig. 24. Before the 
food is immersed, test the temperature of the fat in the manner 

shown in Fig. 25, to 
make sure that it is hot 
enough. To do this, put 
a ^-inch cube of bread 
in the hot fat and keep 
it there for 40 seconds. 
If at the end of this time 
it is a golden brown, it 
may be known that the 
fat is sufficiently hot for 
any mixture. Be care- 
ful to regulate the heat 
so as to keep the fat as 
near this temperature as 
possible, for it should 
be remembered that each time a cold food is immersed in hot fat, 
the temperature is lowered. Usually, a few minutes' frying is neces- 
sary to assure this regulation of the temperature. 

As soon as the correct temperature is reached, put several of the 
croquettes in the basket and set the basket in the pan of hot fat so 
that the croquettes are entirely covered. Fry until a good brown 
color is secured. Then lift the basket out of the fat and allow it to 
drain until all the fat possible has dripped from it. Finally remove 
the croquettes from the basket and place them on any kind of paper 
that will absorb the excessive fat. Serve at once or keep hot until 
ready to serve. 

89. Veal Croquettes. — ^Veal that remains from a roast after 
it has been served once can be utilized in no better way than in the 
making of croquettes ; or, if desired, veal may be cooked especially 
for this purpose. When such croquettes are served with a sauce 




Fig. 25 



§ 11 MEAT 43 

of any desirable kind, such as white sauce or tomato sauce, or with 
left-over gravy, no more appetizing dish can be found. 

Veal Croquettes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. cold ground veal Salt and pepper 

1 c. thick white sauce 1 egg 

2 Tb. chopped onion Fine crumbs 
1 Tb. chopped parsley 

Mix the ground veal with the white sauce, add the onion and 
parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Shape into oblong croquettes. 
Roll first in the beaten egg, which, if necessary, may be increased 
by the addition of a little milk, and then in the crumbs. Fry in 
deep fat until a golden brown. Serve with or without sauce. 

90. Sweetbread Croquettes. — An extremely palatable dish 
can be made by frying in deep fat sweetbreads cut any desirable 
shape and size. These are usually served with a vegetable, and 
often a sauce of some kind is served over both. 

To prepare the sweetbreads, parboil them according to the direc- 
tions given in Art. 17. Cut them into the kind of pieces desired, 
sprinkle the pieces with salt and pepper, and dip them into beaten 
egg and then into crumbs. Fry in deep fat and serve with a vege- 
table or a sauce or both. 

91. Rice-and-Meat Patties. — Sometimes not enough meat 
remains after a meal to make a tasty dish by itself. In such a case, 
it should be combined with some other food, especially a starchy 
one, so as to extend its flavor and produce a dish that approaches 
nearer a balanced ration than meat alone does. A small amount of 
any kind of meat combined with rice and the mixture then formed 
into patties, or croquettes, provides both an appetizing and a nutri- 
tious dish. 

Rice-and-Meat Patties 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. finely chopped left-over meat 1 tsp. celery salt 

1 c. cold steamed rice Salt and pepper 

^ c. thick white sauce 1 egg 

1 Tb. chopped onion Fine crumbs 

Mix the meat and rice, stir into them the white sauce, onion, and 
celery salt, and salt and pepper to taste. Shape into croquettes, or 
patties ; roll first in the egg and then in the crumbs. Fry in deep fat 
until golden brown and serve with any desirable sauce. 

WI-C3-10 



44 



MEAT 



§11 



92. Timbale Cases. — Such foods as creamed sweetbreads, 
creamed sweetbreads and mushrooms, and other delicate foods that 

are served in small quan- 
tities can be made very 
attractive by serving 
them in timbale cases. 
These are made out of 
a batter by means of a 
timbale iron and fried 
in deep fat until brown. 
In serving them, place 
them either on a small 
plate or on the diimer 
plate with the rest of 
the dinner. To make them especially attractive, dip the edge into 
egg white and then into very finely chopped parsley. Fig. 26 shows 
creamed sweetbreads served in a timbale case. 




Fig. 26 



93. To prepare timbale cases, a timbale iron, such as is shown 
in Fig. 27, is required. Such an iron consists of a fluted piece of 
metal that is either solid or hollow and that has attached to it a 
handle long enough to 
keep the hand sufficiently 
far away from the hot 
fat. 

The batter required 
for timbale cases and 
the directions for com- 
bining them are as fol- 
lows: 

Timbale-Case Batter 

(Sufficient to Make Twenty) 

1 egg 1 tsp. sugar 

i c. milk f c. flour 
i tsp. salt 

Beat the egg with a 
fork just enough to 
break it up thoroughly. Add the milk, salt, and sugar. Stir in the 
flour with as little beating as possible. After preparing this mix- 
fjre, allow it to stand for J hour, so that any air it contains in the 




Fig. 27 



§ 11 



MEAT 



45 




form of bubbles may escape and thus prevent the formation of holes 

and bubbles in the finished timbale cases. 

When about to use the batter, pour it into a cup or some other 

small utensil that is just large enough to admit the iron easily. The 

iron must be nearly 

covered with batter, but 

a large amount of it will 

not be needed if a small 

utensil is used. Place 

the iron in the hot fat, as 

shown in Fig. 27, until 

it is hot, or for about 4 

minutes. Then let it 

drip and place it in the 

batter, as in Fig. 28, be- 
ing careful not to permit 

the batter to come quite 

to the top of the iron, 

and remove it at once. 

Place it immediately into the hot fat, as in Fig. 29, allowing the fat 

to come higher on the iron than the batter does. This precaution 

will prevent the forma- 
tion of a ridge of bubbles 
around the top of the 
timbale case. Fry in 
the deep fat until the 
case is nicely browned, 
as shown in Fig. 26. 
Remove the iron from 
the fat, and allow it to 
drip. Then carefully re- 
move the timbale case 
from the iron with a 
fork and place it on 
paper that will absorb 
the fat. 
If your timbales are soft instead of crisp, you will know that the 

mixture is too thick and should be diluted. Too hot or too cold an 

iron will prevent the mixture from sticking to it. 



r"- 




K J ' 






'^^^ 






^^^hl ''^^^■BB^BL'^^ifl*- ^' 



Fig. 29 



MEAT 

(PART 2) 
EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) What is veal? (6) From animals of what age is the best veal 
obtained ? 

(2) Compare veal and beef as to characteristics. 

(3) What cuts of veal are most suitable for: (o) roasts? (6) cutlets? 
(c) soup and stews? (d) chops? 

(4) (a) What organs of veal are used for foods? (6) What are sweet- 
breads ? 

(5) (a) Why is veal more indigestible than beef? (6) What important 
point must be remembered concerning the cooking of veal ? 

(6) (o) What substance in veal is utilized in the preparation of jellied 
veal? (&) Explain how this dish is prepared. 

(7) (o) At what age is sheep sold as lamb? (&) How do lamb and 
mutton differ as to food substances? 

(8) Compare the flesh of lamb and mutton as to appearance. 

(9) As they apply to lamb and mutton, explain the terms: (a) rack; 
(6) saddle. 

(10) Explain why some cuts of lamb and mutton are tough and others 
tender. 

(11) What is : (a) a crown roast of lamb? (6) a French chop? 

(12) (a) Describe pork of the best kind. (6) Why is the food value of 
pork higher than that of other meats ? 

(13) (a) Name the cuts of pork. (6) What is meant by leaf lard? 

(14) What important points must be taken into consideration in the cooking 
of pork? 

(15) (a) Name some of the accompaniments that are usually served with 
pork, (b) What is the purpose of these accompaniments? 

(16) (o) For what purpose is salt pork generally used? (6) What is 
bacon? (c) To what uses is bacon put? 

(17) (a) Give the general directions for the carving and serving of meat. 
(&) Explain how to carve and serve a steak. 

(18) (o) What is meant JDy deep-fat frying? (6) Why must a food that 
is to be fried in deep fat contain or be coated with a protein material ? 

(19) (a) What utensils are necessary for deep-fat frying? (6) Explain 
the procedure in frying croquettes in deep fat. 

(20) (a) For what purpose are timbale cases used? (6) Explain how to 
make a batter for timbale cases. 



ADDITIONAL ■WORK 

Select a cut of beef that you consider most desirable from an economical 
standpoint. Buy a quantity that may be used to the greatest advantage for your 
family. Prepare it in any way you desire. 

State the number of pounds purchased, the price of the meat, the number of 
meals in which it was served, and the number of persons (tell how many adults 
and how many children) served at each meal. Estimate the cost of each portion 
by dividing the cost of the whole by the number of persons served. 

Make up an original dish in which left-over meat is used and submit the 
recipe to us. 

§11 



POULTRY AND GAME 



POULTRY 



POULTRY AS A FOOD 

1. Poultry is the term used to designate birds that have been 
domesticated, or brought under the control of man, for two pur^ 
poses, namely, the eggs they produce and the flesh food they supply. 
All the common species of domestic fowls — chickens, ducks, geese, 
turkeys, guinea fowls, and pigeons — are known as poultry. How- 
ever, none of these species is included under this term unless it is 
raised for at least one of the two purposes mentioned. As the term 
is to be understood in this Section, poultry includes all domestic 
fowls that are killed in order that their flesh may be cooked and 
used as food for human beings. Of course, many wild birds are 
killed for the flesh food they furnish, but they are classed under the 
term game. 

2. Poultry is probably never a necessity in the ordinary dietary, 
and when prices are high it is a decided luxury. Still it does aid 
materially in relieving the monotony of the usual protein foods, and 
it supplies that "something out of the ordinary" for special occa- 
sions. Then, too, it is often valuable in the diet of an invalid or 
some person with a poor appetite. Poultry is, of course, used more 
in some homes than in others ; yet there is scarcely a home in which 
it is not served some time or another. A knowledge of this food 
and its preparation and serving will therefore prove to be a valuable 
asset to any housewife. 

3. To arrive at a knowledge of the use of poultry as a food, the 
housewife must necessarily become familiar with its selection and 

COPYRIOHTKD BY INTERNATIONAl. EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHINO COMPANY. ALU RIGHTS RKIinRVBD 

S12 



2 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

purchase. Then she must give attention to both its preparation for 
cooking and its actual cooking, and, finally, to its serving. In all 
these matters she will do well to adhere to the practice of economy, 
for, at best, poultry is usually an expensive food. Before entering 
into these matters in detail, however, it will be well to look into 
them in a general way. 

4. In the selection of poultry, the housewife should realize that 
poultry breeders have so developed certain breeds, even of the same 
species, that they are better for table use than others. The flesh of 
any breed of poultry may be improved by feeding the birds good 
food and giving them proper care ; and it is by applying these prin- 
ciples that the breeders are enabled to better the quality of this food. 
Other things also influence the quality of poultry flesh as food, as, 
for example, the way in which the poultry is prepared for market 
and the care it receives in transportation and storage. Unless these 
are as they should be, they have a detrimental effect on poultry, 
because such food is decidedly perishable. 

It is possible to exercise economy in the purchase of poultry, but 
before the housewife can do this she must be able to judge the age 
of each kind she may desire. On the age depends to a great extent 
the method of cookery to be followed in preparing the poultry for 
the table. Likewise, she must know the marks of cold-storage 
poultry, as well as those of poultry that is freshly killed; and she 
must be familiar with the first marks of deterioration, or decay, that 
result from storing the food too long or improperly. 

Economy may also be practiced in preparing poultry for cooking. 
To bring this about, however, the housewife should realize that the 
best method of preparing any kind of poultry for cooking is always 
the most economical. It means, too, that she should understand 
thoroughly the methods of drawing and cutting, so that she may 
either do this work herself or direct it. 

The way in which poultry is cooked has a bearing on the cost of 
this food, too. For example, a young, tender bird prepared by a 
wrong method not only is a good dish spoiled, but is a waste of 
expensive material. Likewise, an older bird, which has more flavor 
but tougher tissues, is almost impossible as food if it is not properly 
prepared. Both kinds make appetizing dishes and do not result in 
waste if correct methods of cooking are followed in their prepa- 
ration. 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 3 

Even the way in which poultry is served has a bearing on the cost 
of this food. For this reason, it is necessary to know how to carve, 
as well as how to utilize any of this food that may be left over, if 
the housewife is to get the most out of her investment. 



SELECTION OF POULTRY 



GENERAL INFORMATIOIV 

5. The selection of any kind of poultry to be used as food is a 
matter that should not be left to the butcher. Rather, it should be 
done by some one who understands the purpose for which the 
poultry is to be used, and, in the home, this is a duty that usually 
falls to the housewife. There are a number of general facts about 
poultry, and a knowledge of them will assist the housewife greatly 
in performing her tasks. 

6. Classification of Poultry. — Poultry breeders and dealers 
divide the domestic fowls into three classes. In the first class are 
included those which have combs, such as chickens, turkeys, and 
guinea fowls. Quails and pheasants belong to this class also, but 
they are very seldom domesticated. The birds in this class are 
distinguished by two kinds of tissue — light meat on the breast and 
dark meat on the other parts of the body. In the second class, are 
included those fowls which swim, such as ducks and geese. These 
are characterized by web feet and long thick bills, and their meat 
is more nearly the same color over the entire body. The third class 
is comprised of birds that belong to the family of doves. Pigeons, 
which are called squabs when used as food, are the only domesti- 
cated birds of this class. They stand between the other two classes 
with respect to their flesh, which has some difference in color 
between the breast and other muscles, but not so much as chicken 
and other fowls of the first class. 

7. Influence of Feeding and. Care on Quality. — To 

some extent, the breed affects the quality of poultry as food; still 
this is a far less important matter than a number of things that the 
purchaser is better able to judge. Among the factors that greatly 
influence the quality are the feeding and care that the birds receive 
up to the time of slaughter. These affect not only the flavor and the 



4 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

tenderness of the tissue, as well as the quantity of tissue in propor- 
tion to bone, but also the healthfulness of the birds themselves. To 
keep the birds in good health and to build up sufficient flesh to make 
them plump, with as much meat as possible on the bones and a fair 
amount of fat as well, the food they get must be clean and of the 
right kind. Likewise, the housing conditions must be such that the 
birds are kept dry and sufficiently warm. The living space, also, 
must be adequate for the number that are raised. Domestic fowls 
are not discriminating as to their food, and when they are forced 
to live in dirt and filth they will eat more or less of it and thus injure 
the quality of their flesh. Poultry that comes into the market 
looking drawn and thin, with blue-looking flesh and no fat, shows 
evidence of having had poor living conditions and inadequate feed- 
ing. Such poultry will be found to have a less satisfactory flavor 
than that which has received proper care. 

8. Effect of Sex on. Quality. — When birds of any kind are 
young, sex has very little to do with the quality of the flesh. Rut 
as they grow older the flesh of males develops a stronger flavor than 
that of females of the same age and also becomes tougher. How- 
ever, when birds, with the exception of mature ones, are dressed, it 
would take an expert to determine the sex. The mature male is 
less plump than the female, and it is more likely to be scrawny. 
Likewise, its spurs are larger and its bones are large in proportion 
to the amount of flesh on them. 

Very often the reproductive organs of young males are removed, 
and the birds are then called capons. As the capon grows to 
maturity, it develops more of the qualities of the hen. Its body 
becomes plump instead of angular, the quality of its flesh is much 
better than that of the cock, and the quantity of flesh in proportion 
to bone is much greater. In fact, the weight of a capon's edible 
flesh is much greater than that of either a hen or a cock. In the 
market, a dressed capon can usually be told by the long tail and wing 
feathers that are left on, as well as by a ring of feathers around 
the neck. Female birds that are spayed are called poulards. Spay- 
ing, or removing the reproductive organs, of female birds, however, 
makes so little improvement that it is seldom done. 

9. Preparation of Poultry for Market. — The manner in 
which poultry is prepared for market has a great bearing on its 
quality as food. In some cases, the preparation falls to the pro- 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 5 

ducer, and often, when birds are raised in quantities, they are sold 
aHve and dressed by the butcher. However, poultry that is to be 
shipped long distances and in large quantities or stored for long 
periods of time is usually prepared at a slaughtering place. This 
process of slaughtering and shipping requires great care, for if 
attention is not given to details, the poultry will be in a state of 
deterioration when it reaches the consumer and therefore unfit for 
food. 

In order to avoid the deterioration of poultry that is slaughtered 
some distance from the place of its consumption, each bird is well 
fed up to within 24 hours before it is killed. Then it is starved so 
that its alimentary tract will be as empty as possible at the time of 
killing. Such birds are killed by cutting the large blood vessel run- 
ning up to the head. When properly done, this method of killing 
allows almost all the blood to be drained from the body and the 
keeping qualities are much improved. At practically the same 
time, the brain is pierced by the knife thrust, and as soon as 
the bleeding commences the fowl becomes paralyzed. As the 
tissues relax, the feathers may be pulled easily from the skin 
without immersing the bird in hot water. This method of plucking, 
known as dry plucking, is preferable when the skin must be kept 
intact and the poultry kept for any length of time. The head and 
feet are left on and the entrails are not removed. The poultry is 
then chilled to the freezing point, but not below it, after which the 
birds are packed ten in a box and shipped to the market in refrigera- 
tor cars or placed in cold storage. Unless the poultry is to be cooked 
immediately after slaughter, such measures are absolutely neces- 
sary, as its flesh is perishable and will not remain in good condition 
for a long period of time. 

10. Cold-storage Poultry. — Poultry that has been properly 
raised, killed, transported, and stored is very likely to come into the 
market in such condition that it cannot be readily distinguished 
from freshly killed birds. When exposed to warmer temperatures, 
however, storage poultry spoils much more quickly than does fresh 
poultry. For this reason, if there is any evidence that poultry has 
been in storage, it should be cooked as soon as possible after 
purchase. 

There are really two kinds of cold-storage poultry: that which 
is kept at a temperature just above freezing and delivered within 



6 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

a few weeks after slaughtering, and that which is frozen and kept 
in storage a much longer time. When properly cared for, either 
one is preferable to freshly killed poultry that is of poor quality 
or has had a chance to spoil. Poultry that has been frozen must be 
thawed carefully. It should be first placed in a refrigerator and 
allowed to thaw to that temperature before it is placed in a warmer 
one. It should never be thawed by putting it into warm water. 
Thawing it in this way really helps it to decompose. 

A sure indication of cold-storage poultry is the pinched look it 
possesses, a condition brought about by packing the birds tightly 
against one another. Storage poultry usually has the head and feet 
left on and its entrails are not removed. Indeed, it has been deter- 
mined by experiment that poultry will keep better if these precau- 
tions are observed. The removal of the entrails seems to affect the 
internal cavity of the bird so that it does not keep well, and as a 
matter of safety it should be cooked quickly after this has been 
done in the home. 



SEI/BCTION OF CHICKEN 

11. To be able to select chicken properly, the housewife must 
be familiar with the terms that are applied to chickens to designate 
their age or the cookery process for which they are most suitable. 
Chicken is a general name for all varieties of this kind of poultry, 
but in its specific use it means a common domestic fowl that is less 
than 1 year old. Fowl is also a general term; but in its restricted 
use in cookery it refers to the full-grown domestic hen or cock over 
1 year of age, as distinguished from the chicken or pullet. A broiler 
is chicken from 2 to 4 months old which, because of its tenderness, 
is suitable for broiling. A frying chicken is at least 6 months old, 
and a roasting chicken is between 6 months and 1 year old. With 
these terms understood, it can readily be seen that if fried chicken 
is desired a 2-year-old fowl would not be a wise purchase. 

The quality of the bird is the next consideration in the selection 
of chicken. A number of things have a bearing on the quality. 
Among these, as has already been pointed out, are the feeding and 
care that the bird has received during its growth, the way in which 
it has been prepared for market, and so on. All of these things may 
be determined by careful observation before making a purchase. 
However, if the bird is drawn, and especially if the head and feet 
are removed, there is less chance to determine these things accurately. 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



12. General Marks of Good Quality. — A chicken older 
than a broiler that has been plucked should not be scrawny nor 
drawn looking like that shown in Fig. 1, nor should the flesh have 
a blue tinge that shows through the skin. Rather, it should be 




Fig. 1 

plump and well rounded like the one shown in Fig. 2. There should 
be a sufficient amount of fat to give a rich, yellow color. It should 
be plucked clean, and the skin should be clear and of an even color 
over the entire bird. Tender, easily broken skin indicates a young 
bird; tougher skin indicates an older one. The skin should be 




Fig. 2 

whole and unbroken; likewise, when pressed with the fingers, it 
should be neither flabby nor stiff, but pliable. 

13. The increase of age in a chicken is to some extent an advan- 
tage, because with age there is an increase in flavor. Thus, a year- 
old chicken will have more flavor than a broiler. However, after 



8 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

more than a year, the flavor increases to such an extent that it 
becomes strong and disagreeable. With the advance of age there 
is also a loss of tenderness in the flesh, and this after 1^ or 2 years 
becomes so extreme as to render the bird almost unfit for use. As 
the age of a chicken increases, the proportion of flesh to bone also 
increases up to the complete maturity of the bird. Hence, one 
large bird is a more economical purchase than two small ones that 
equal its weight, because the proportion of bone to flesh is less in 
the large bird than in the small ones. 

14. Determining the Age of Chicken. — ^An excellent way 
in which to determine the age of a chicken that has been dressed 
consists in feeling of the breast bone at the point where it protrudes 
below the neck. In a very young chicken, a broiler, for instance, 
the point of this bone will feel like cartilage, which is firm, elastic 
tissue, and may be very easily bent. If the bird is about a year old, 
the bone will be brittle, and in a very old one it will be hard and 
will not bend. 

15. If the head has been left on, the condition of the beak is 
a means of determining age. In a young chicken, it will be smooth 
and unmarred ; in an old one, it will be rough and probably darker 
in color. If the feet have been left on, they too will serve to indi- 
cate the age. The feet of a young chicken are smooth and soft; 
whereas, those of an old bird are rough, hard, and scaly. The 
claws of a young one are short and sharp; but as the bird grows 
older they grow stronger and become blunt and marred with use. 
The spur, which is a projection just above the foot on the back of 
each leg, is small in the young chicken, and increases in size as the 
age increases. However, the spurs are more pronounced in males 
than in females. 

16. Another way of telling the age of dressed chicken is to 
observe the skin. After plucking, young birds usually have some 
pin feathers left in the skin. Pin feathers are small unformed 
feathers that do not pull out with the larger ones. Older birds are 
usually free from pin feathers, but have occasional long hairs 
remaining in the skin after the feathers have been plucked. These 
do not pull out readily and must be singed off when the chicken is 
being prepared for cooking. 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 9 

17. Determining the Freshness of Chicken. — There are 
a number of points that indicate whether or not a chicken is fresh. 
In a freshly killed chicken, the feet will be soft and pliable and 
moist to the touch; also, the head will be unshrunken and the eyes 
full and bright. The flesh of such a chicken will give a little when 
pressed, but no part of the flesh should be softer than another. As 
actual decomposition sets in, the skin begins to discolor. The first 
marks of discoloration occur underneath the legs and wings, at the 
points where they are attached to the body. Any dark or greenish 
color indicates decomposition, as does also any slimy feeling of the 
skin. The odor given off by the chicken is also an indication of 
freshness. Any offensive odor, of course, means that the flesh has 
become unfit for food. 

18. Live Chickens. — Occasionally chickens are brought to 
the market and sold alive. This means, of course, that the birds are 
subjected to a certain amount of fright and needless cruelty and that 
the work of slaughtering falls to the purchaser. The cost, however, 
is decreased a few cents on the pound. Such birds must be chosen 
first of all by weight and then by the marks that indicate age, which 
have already been given. 

SELECTION OF POUIiTRY OTHER THAN CHICKEN 

19. The determination of quality, especially freshness, is much 
the same for other kinds of poultry as it is for chicken. In fact, the 
same points apply in most cases, but each kind seems to have a few 
distinguishing features, which are here pointed out. 

20. Selection of Turkeys. — Turkeys rank next to chickens 
in popularity as food. They are native to America and are perhaps 
better known here than in foreign countries. Turkey is a much 
more seasonal food than chicken, it being best in the fall. Cold- 
storage turkey that has been killed at that time, provided it is prop- 
erly stored and cared for, is better than fresh turkey marketed out 
of season. 

21. The age of a turkey can be fairly accurately told by the 
appearance of its feet. Very young turkeys have black feet, and as 
they mature the feet gradually grow pink, so that at more than 
1 year old the feet will be found to be pink. However, as the bird 
grows still older, the color again changes, and a 3-year-old turkey 



10 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

will have dull-gray or blackish looking feet. The legs, too, serve 
to indicate the age of turkeys. Those of a young turkey are smooth, 
but as the birds grow older they gradually become rough and 
scaly. A young turkey will have spurs that are only slightly 
developed, whereas an old turkey will have long, sharp ones. 

22. Turkeys are seldom marketed when they are very young. 
But in spite of the fact that this is occasionally done, the mature 
birds are more generally marketed. Turkeys often reach a large 
size, weighing as much as 20 to 25 pounds. A mature turkey has 
proportionately a larger amount of flesh and a smaller amount of 
bone than chicken ; hence, even at a higher price per pound, turkey 
is fully as economical as chicken. 

23. Selection of Ducks. — Ducks probably come next to tur- 
keys in popularity for table use. Young ducks are sold in the 
market during the summer and are called spring duck. The mature 
ducks may be purchased at any time during the year, but they are 
best in the winter months. 

The flexibility of the windpipe is an excellent test for the age of 
ducks. In the young bird, the windpipe may be easily moved; 
whereas, in the old one, it is stationary and quite hard. The meat 
of ducks is dark over the entire bird, and the greatest amount is 
found on the breast. Its flavor is quite typical, and differs very 
much from turkey and chicken. However, there is a comparatively, 
small amount of meat even on a good-sized duck, and it does not 
carve to very good advantage ; in fact, more persons can be served 
from a chicken or a turkey of the same weight. Young ducks are 
rather difficult to clean, as a layer of fine down, which is not easily 
removed, covers the skin. 

24. Selection of Geese. — Geese are much more commonly 
used for food in foreign countries than in America. Their age may 
be told in the same way as that of ducks, namely, by feeling of the 
windpipe. The flesh is dark throughout and rather strongly flav- 
ored. The fat is used quite extensively for cooking purposes, and 
even as a butter substitute in some countries. Because of this fact, 
geese are generally fattened before they are slaughtered, and often 
half the weight of the bird is fat. The livers of fattened geese 
reach enormous proportions and are considered a delicacy. They 
are used for pate de fois gras. Usually, this is put up in jars and 
brings a very high price. 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



11 



25. Selection of Pigeons. — Pigeons are raised primarily for 
their use as squabs. These are young birds about 4 weeks old, and 
their meat is tender and agreeable to the taste. The meat of 
the mature pigeon becomes quite tough and unpalatable. The 
breast is the only part of the bird that has meat on it in any quan- 
tity, and this meat is slightly lighter in color than that which comes 
from the remainder of the body. Midsummer is the best season 
for squabs, but they can be purchased at other times of the year. 
The cost of squabs is too high to allow them to be used extensively 
as a food in the ordinary household. 

26. Selection of Guinea Fowls. — Guinea fowls are coming 
into common use as food. The young birds are preferable to the 

TABLE I 

GUIDE TO THE SEIiECTIOJV OF POULTRY 



Market Name 



Weight 
Pounds 



Age 



Season 



Squab broiler . . . . 

Broiler 

Frying chicken . . . 
Roasting chicken . 

Fowl 

Capon 

Turkey broiler . . . 
Roasting turkey . . 

Spring duck 

Roasting duck . . . . 

Green goose 

Roasting goose . . . 

Squab 

Guinea hen broiler . 
Guinea fowl 



2\ 
3 
4 
6 

li 
8 

4 

4 

i 
1 
3 



to \\ 
to 2 
to 3 
to 6 
to 5 
to 19 
to 4 
to 25 
to 2\ 
to 6 
to 2i 
to 8 
to I 
to 2 
to 5 



6 to 8 wk. 

2 to 4 mo. 

6 mo. 

6 mo. to 1 yr. 

Over 1 yr. 
6 mo. to 1 yr. 

6 to 8 wk. 
6 mo. to 3 yr. 

2 to 6 mo. 
6 mo. to 1 yr. 

2 to 6 mo. 
6 mo. to 1 yr. 
4 wk. 

2 to 4 mo. 
6 mo. to 1 yr. 



April to July 
May to Sept. 

June to Oct. 
All year 
All year 

Nov. to July 
June to Sept. 

Oct. to Jan. 

May to Dec. 
Best in winter 

May to Dec. 

Oct. to Mar. 
June to Sept. 
Aug. to Nov. 

Oct. to Mar. 



older ones. They are ready for the market in early autumn, while 
the old birds may be procured at any time. The breast meat of 
guinea fowls is almost as light as that of chicken, but all the meat 
of this bird has a gamy taste- which is absent in the chicken. If this 



12 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

particular flavor is much desired, it may be developed to even a 
greater degree by allowing the bird to hang after killing until the 
meat begins to "turn," that is, become "high." Such meat, however, 
is not usually desirable in the ordinary menu. 

27. Selection of Pheasant, Partridge, and Quail. 

Pheasant, partridge, and quail are usually considered game birds, 
but certain varieties are being extensively domesticated and bred 
for market. Such birds are small and are used more in the nature 
of a delicacy than as a common article of food. 

28. Table of Poultry and Game. — In Table I are given the 
market names of the various kinds of poultry and game birds, as 
well as the corresponding age, the weight, and the season of the year 
when they are most desirable. This table will serve as a guide in 
selecting poultry that is to be used as food. 



COMPOSITION OP POULTRY 

29. The composition of poultry is very similar to that of meats. 
In fact, poultry is composed of protein, fat, water, mineral salts, and 
extractives that do not differ materially from those found in meats. 
The protein, which usually varies from 15 to 20 per cent., is a much 
more constant factor than the fat, which varies from 8 to 40 per 
cent. This variation, of course, makes the total food value high in 
some kinds of poultry and low in others. For instance, in a young 
broiler that has not been fattened, the food value is extremely low ; 
whereas, in a mature well-fattened bird, such as a goose, which 
increases very markedly in fatty tissue after reaching maturity, it is 
extremely high. A factor that detracts considerably from the edible 
portion of poultry is the waste material, or refuse. This consists of 
the bones, cartilage, head, feet, and entrails, or inedible internal 
organs. The greater the proportion of such waste material, the more 
the total nutritive value of the flesh is reduced. It is claimed that 
birds that have light-colored flesh do not become so fat as those 
which have dark flesh. This, of course, makes their nutritive value 
less, because the fat of poultry is what serves to supply a large part 
of the nutrition. There is no particular difference, as is commonly 
supposed, between the red and white meat of poultry. The differ- 
ence in color is due to a difference in the blood supply, but this does 
not affect the composition to any extent. 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 13 

PREPARATION OF POULTRY FOR COOKING 



PREPARATIOrr OF CHICKEN 

30. As has been implied, poultry must be properly prepared 
before it is ready for cooking; likewise, the method of cookery 
determines how it must be prepared. For example, if it is to be 
roasted, it must be drawn; if it is to be stewed, it must be drawn 
and cut into suitable pieces ; and so on. The various steps that must 
be taken to make poultry suitable for cooking are therefore con- 
sidered here in detail. 

31. Dressing a Cliiclieii. — ^Although, as has been shown, the 
housewife does not have to dress the chicken that she is to cook — 
that is, kill and pluck it — ^there may be times when she will be called 
on to perform this task or at least direct it. A common way of 
killing chicken in the home is simply to grasp it firmly by the legs, 
lay it on a block, and then chop the head off with a sharp hatchet or 
a cleaver. If this plan is followed, the beheaded chicken must be 
held firmly until the blood has drained away and the reflex action 
that sets in has ceased. Otherwise, there is danger of becoming 
splashed with blood. 

32. After a chicken has been killed, the first step in its prepara- 
tion, no matter how it is to be cooked, consists in removing the 
feathers, or plucking it, as this operation is called. Plucking can be 
done dry by simply pulling out the feathers. However, a bird can be 
plucked more readily if it is first immersed in water at the boiling 
point for a few minutes. Such water has a tendency to loosen the 
feathers so that they can be pulled from the skin easily. Unless 
the chicken is to be used at once, though, dry plucking is preferable 
to the other method. Care should be taken not to tear or mar the 
skin in plucking, and the operation is best performed by pulling out 
the feathers a few at a time, with a quick jerk. In a young chicken, 
small feathers, commonly called pin feathers, are apt to remain in 
the skin after plucking. These may be pulled out by pinching each 
with the point of a knife pressed against the thumb and then giving 
a quick jerk. 

33. Whether live poultry is dressed by a local butcher or in the 
home, the length of time it should be kept after killing demands 

Wi— C3— n 



14: 



POULTRY AND GAME 



812 



attention. Such poultry should either be cooked before rigor mor- 
tis, or the stiffening of the muscles, has had time to begin, or be 




Fig. 3 

allowed to remain in a cool place long enough for this to pass off 
and the muscles to become tender again. Naturally, if this soften- 
ing, or ripening, process, as it is sometimes called, goes on too long, 
decomposition will set in, with the usual harmful effects if the meat 
is used as food. 

34. Singeing a Chicken. — On all chickens except very young 
ones, whether they are home dressed or not, hairs will be found on 

the skin; and, as has been 
mentioned, the older the bird 
the more hair will it have. 
The next step in preparing 
a chicken for cooking, there- 
fore, is to singe it, or burn 
off these hairs. However, 
before singeing, provided the 
head has not been removed, 
cut it off just where the 
neck begins, using a kitchen 
cleaver or a butcher knife, 
as in Fig. 3. To singe a 
dressed chicken, grasp it by 
the head or the neck and the 
feet and then revolve it over 
a gas flame, as shown in 
Fig. 4, or a burning piece of 
paper for a few seconds or just long enough to bum off the hairs 
without scorching the skin. After singeing, wash the skin thor- 




FiG. 4 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



15 



oughly with a cloth and warm water, as shown in Fig. 5. Then it 
will be ready for drawing and cutting up. 

35. Drawing a Chicken. — By drawing a chicken is meant 
the taking out of the entrails and removing all parts that are not 
edible. Although this work 
will be done by some butch- 
ers, the better plan is to do 
it at home, for, as has been 
stated, chicken or any other 
poultry must be cooked very 
soon after the entrails are 
removed. Chicken that is 
to be roasted is always pre- 
pared in this way, as the 
cavity that remains may be 
filled with stuffing. Draw- 
ing is also necessary when 
chicken is to be cooked in 
any other way, as by stew- 
ing or frying, but in addition 
it must be cut up. The pro- 
cedure in drawing a chicken ^"'- ^ 

is simple, but some practice is required before deftness will result. 

36. In order to draw a chicken, carefully cut a lengthwise slit 





Fig. 6 



through the skin on the neck, and slip the fingers down around the 
crop, which is a small sack that holds the food eaten by the chicken,, , 




Fig. 7 




Fig. 8 




Fig. 9 



16 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



17 




Fig. 10 



Then pull the crop out, and with it the windpipe, as in Fig. 6, taking 

pains not to tear the skin nor to break the crop. 

Next, remove the tendons, or thick white cords, from the legs, so 

as to improve the meat. These may be easily removed, especially 

from a chicken that is 

freshly killed; that is, 

one in which the flesh 

is still moist. Simply 

cut through the skin, 

just above the foot, as 

in Fig. 7, being careful 

not to cut the tendons 

that lie just beneath the 

skin; then slip a skewer 

or some other small, 

dull implement, as a 

fork, under the tendons, 

pull down toward the 

foot until they loosen at 

the second joint, and pull them out. This operation is clearly shown 

in Fig. 8. With the tendons removed, the feet may be cut off. To 

do this, cut through the skin where the two bones join, as shown in- 

Fig. 9. As the joint 
separates, cut through 
the remaining tendons 
and skin on the back of 
the legs. 

37. Proceed, next, 
to cut a crosswise slit 
through the skin between 
the legs at a point 
above the vent, as in 
Fig. 10, so that the en- 
trails may be removed. 
This slit should be just 
large enough to admit the hand and no larger. Insert the fingers 
of one hand in this slit and gently move them around the mass of the 
internal organs, keeping them close to the framework of the bird. 
This will loosen the entrails at the points where they are attached 




Fig. n 



18 



POULTRY AND GAME 



§12 




Fig. 12 



to the body. Then, inserting the hand, sHp the fingers around the 

mass at the top, near the neck, and with one pull remove the entire 

internal contents, as 
Fig. 11 shows. The 
lungs, or lights, as they 
are sometimes called, do 
not come out with this 
mass. They will be 
found covered with a 
membrane and tightly 
fastened inside the 
breast bone, and must 
be removed by pulling 
them out with the tips 
of the fingers. After 

the entrails are removed, pour clean cold water into the cavity, rinse 

it well several times, and pour the water out. 

38. Among the contents drawn from the chicken will be found 
the heart, the liver, and the gizzard. These are called the giblets. 
They are the only edible internal organs, and must be separated 
from the rest. To do this, squeeze the blood from the heart, and 
then cut the large vessels off close to the top of it. Then cut the 
liver away. In handling this part of the giblets extreme care must 
be taken, for tightly 
attached to it, as Fig. 12 
shows, is the gall blad- 
der, which is a tiny sack 
filled with green fluid, 
called bile. If this sack 
breaks, anything that its 
contents touches will be- 
come very bitter and 
therefore unfit to eat. 
The gall bag should be 
cut out of the liver 
above the place where it 
is attached, so as to be 
certain that it does not break nor lose any of the bile. Next, remove 
the gizzard, which consists of a fleshy part surrounding a sack con- 




FiG. 13 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



19 




Fig. 14 



taining partly digested food eaten by the chicken. First trim off 
any surplus fat, and 
carefully cut through 
the fleshy part just to the 
surface of the inside 
sack. Then pull the out- 
side fleshy part away 
from the sack without 
breaking it, as in Fig. 13, 
an operation that can be 
done if the work is per- 
formed carefully. After 
removing the giblets 
and preparing them as 
explained, wash them 
well, so that they may 
be used with the rest of 
the chicken. As a final step, cut out the oil sack, which lies just 
above the tail, proceeding in the manner illustrated in Fig. 14. 

39. Cutting Up a Chicken. — ^When chicken that has been 
drawn is to be fried, stewed, fricasseed, or cooked in some similar 
way, it must be cut into suitable pieces. In order to do this properly, 
it is necessary to learn to locate the joints and to be able to cut 

squarely between the 
two bones where they 
are attached to each 
other. To sever the legs 
from the body of the 
chicken, first cut through 
the skin underneath each 
leg where it is attached 
to the body, as in Fig. 15, 
bend the leg back far 
enough to break the 
joint, and then cut 
through it, severing the 
entire leg in one piece. 
When the legs are cut 
off, cut each one apart at the joint between the thigh and the lower 




Fig. 15 




Fig. 16 




Fig. 17 




Fig. 18 



2D 




Fig. 19 




Fig. 20 




Fig. 21 



21 



22 



POULTRY AND GAME 



§12 



part, as in Fig. 16, making two pieces. To sever the wings from 
the body, cut through the skin where the wing is attached, as in 

Fig. 17, and bend it back 
until the joint breaks. 
Then cut it off where the 
ends of the bones are 
attached to the joint. 
When both legs and both 
wings are removed, pro- 
ceed to cut the body 
apart. As shown in 
Fig. 18, place the chick- 
en, neck down, on a 
table, and cut down 
through the ribs parallel 
with the breast and the 
back, until the knife 
strikes a hard bone that it cannot cut. Then firmly grasp the breast 
with one hand and the back with the other and break the joints that 
attach these parts by pulling the back and the breast away from each 
other, as in Fig. 19. Cut through the joints, as in Fig. 20, so that 
the back, ribs, and neck will be in one piece and the breast in another. 




Fig. 22 




Fig. 23 



If desired, the breast may be divided into two pieces by cutting it 
in the manner shown in Fig. 21 ; also, as the back will break at the 
end of the ribs, it may be cut into two pieces there. Finally, cut 
the neck from the top piece of the back, as in Fig. 22. 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 23 

The pieces of chicken thus procured may be rinsed clean with 
cold water, but they should never be allowed to stand in water, 
because this will draw out some of the extractives, or flavoring 
material, soluble albumin, and mineral salts. 

40. Preparing Chicken Feet. — Many persons consider that 
chicken feet are not worth while for food. This, however, is a 
mistaken idea, for they will add to the flavor of soup stock or they 
may be cooked with the giblets to make stock for gravy. Chicken 
feet do not contain much meat, but what little there is has an excel- 
lent flavor and should be removed for use when creamed chicken 
or any dish made with left-over chicken is to be cooked. 

To prepare chicken feet for use as food, scrub the feet well and 
pour boiling water over them. After a minute or two, remove them 
from the water and rub them with a clean cloth to peel off the 
scaly skin, as shown in Fig. 23. Finally remove the nails by bend- 
ing them back. 

41. Utilizing the Wing Tips. — The last joint, or tip, of 
chicken wings has no value as food, but, like the feet, it will help 
to add flavor to any stock that is made. This small piece of wing 
may be removed and then cooked with the feet and giblets. 



PREPARATION OP POXJLiTRY OTHER THAN CHICKEN 

42. Preparation of Turkey. — The preparation of a plucked 
turkey for cooking is almost identically the same as that of a plucked 
chicken. Begin the preparation by singeing it ; that is, hold it over 
a flame and turn it so that all the hairs on the skin will be burned 
off. Then look the skin over carefully, remove any pin feathers 
that may not have been removed in plucking, and wash it thoroughly. 
Next, cut off the head, leaving as much of the neck as possible. 
Draw the tendons from the legs as in preparing chicken; the ease 
with which this can be done will depend greatly on the length of 
time the turkey has been killed. Then cut off the legs at the first 
joint above the foot. 

Having prepared the external part of the turkey, proceed to draw 
it. First, remove the crop by cutting a slit lengthwise in the neck 
over the crop, catching it with the fingers, and pulling it out. Next, 
cut a slit between the legs, below the breast bone, and draw out the 
internal organs. Clean and retain the giblets. Remove the lungs, 



24 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

wash out the cavity in the turkey, and cut off the oil bag on the back, 
just above the tail. 

Turkey prepared in this way is ready to stuff and roast. It is 
never cut into pieces in the ordinary household until it has been 
cooked and is ready to serve. Directions for carving are therefore 
given later. 

43. Preparation of Duck and Goose. — The preparation of 
duck and goose for cooking does not differ materially from that of 
turkey or chicken. Like turkey, duck or goose is generally roasted 
and not cut up until it is ready to serve. It will be well to note that 
young ducks are covered with small feathers, or down, which is very 
difficult to remove. However, the down may be removed by pulling 
it out with a small knife pressed against the thumb. When the 
down is removed, proceed with the preparation. Singe, wash, 
remove the head and feet, draw, wash the inside of the bird, and 
remove the oil sack. Goose may be prepared for cooking in the 
same way. 

44. Preparation of Small Birds. — Squabs, partridge, 
pheasant, and other small birds are usually cooked by broiling. To 
prepare such a bird for cooking, singe, remove any small feathers 
that may remain, wash, remove the head and feet, and draw, follow- 
ing the directions given for drawing chicken. When it is thus 
cleaned, lay the bird open. To do this, begin at the neck and cut 
down the back along the spine. If desired, however, the bird may 
be cut down the back before drawing and the entrails removed 
through the cut down the back. Finally, wash the inside and wipe 
it dry, when the bird will be ready for broiling. 



COOKING OF POULTRY 



COOKERY niBTHODS 



45. With poultry, as in the case of meats of any kind, it is the 
composition that determines the method of cookery ; and, as the struc- 
ture and composition of the tissue of poultry do not differ materially 
from those of meats, the application of the various cooking methods 
is practically the same. Young and tender birds that have com- 
paratively little flesh, such as young chickens, squabs, and guinea 



§1^ 



POULTRY AND GAME 



25 



fowl, are usually prepared by such rapid methods as frying and 
broiling. Medium-sized poultry, including chickens, turkeys, guinea 
fowl, ducks, and geese, require more cooking, and this, of course, 
must be done at a lower temperature; therefore, such poultry is 
generally roasted. Old poultry, particularly old chicken, or fowl, 
which is apt to be tough, requires still more cooking, and for this 
reason is stewed, braized, or fricasseed. The recipes for the cook- 
ing of various kinds of poultry here given will serve to make clear 
the cookery method to employ, as well as how to carry it out to 
advantage. 



PREPARATION BY BROILING 

46. The method of broiling in the case of poultry of all kinds 
does not differ in any way from the same method applied to cuts of 
meat. Since broiling is a 
rapid method of cookery 
and heat is applied at a high 
temperature, it is necessary 
that the poultry chosen for 
broiling be young and ten- 
der and have a compara- 
tively small amount of 
meat on the bones. 

Broiled poultry is not an 
economical dish, neither is 
it one in which the greatest 
possible amount of flavor is 
obtained, since, as in the 
case of the meat of animals 
used for food, the flavor 
develops with the age of 
the birds. However, 
broiled poultry has value in 
the diet of invalids and persons with poor appetite and digestion, 
for if it is properly done it is appetizing and easily digested. 

47. Broiled Poultry. — Poultry that is to be broiled must first 
be dressed, drawn, and cleaned. Then, as has been mentioned 
for the preparation of small birds, lay the bird open by cutting 
down along the spine, beginning at the neck, as shown in Fig. 24. 




Fig. 24 



26 



POULTRY AND GAME 



§12 




Fig. 25 



This will permit the bird to be spread apart, as in Fig. 25. When 

it is thus made ready, washed, and wiped dry, heat the broiler and 

grease it. Then place 
the bird on the broiler 
in the manner shown in 
Fig. 26 and expose it 
to severe heat. Sear 
quickly on one side, and 
turn and sear on the 
other side. Then reduce 
the heat to a lower tem- 
perature and broil more 
slowly, turning often. 
To prevent burning, the 
parts that stand up close 
to the flame may be 
covered with strips of 

bacon fastened on with skewers ; also, to get the best results, the 

side of the bird on which the flesh is thick should be exposed to 

the heat for a greater 

length of time than the 

other side. If there is 

any danger of the high 

places burning in the 

broiler, the bird may be 

removed and the cook- 
ing continued in a hot 

oven. Broiled poultry 

should be well done 

when served. This 

means, then, particularly 

in the case of chickens, that the broiling process should be carried 

on for about 20 minutes. When the bird is properly cooked, remove 

it from the broiler, place it on a hot platter, dot it with butter, 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, garnish, and serve. 




Fig. 26 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 27 



PREPARATION BY FRYING 

48. As has been mentioned, birds slightly older and larger than 
those used for broiling should be fried, because frying is a slower 
method and gives the flesh a more thorough cooking. However, 
most of the dishes commonly known as fried poultry are not fried, 
but sauted in shallow fat. The same principles employed in sauteing 
any food are applied in the cooking of poultry by this method ; that 
is, the surface is seared as quickly as possible and the cooking is 
finished at a lower temperature. Often in this cooking process, the 
pieces to be sauted are dipped into batter or rolled in flour to assist 
in keeping the juices in the meat. 

49. Pried. Cliicken. — To many persons, fried chicken — or, 
rather, sauted chicken, as it should be called — is very appetizing. 
Chicken may be fried whole, but usually it is cut up, and when this 
is done it serves to better advantage. Likewise, the method of 
preparation is one that adds flavor to young chicken, which would be 
somewhat flavorless if prepared in almost any other way. 

Frying is not a difficult cookery process. To prepare chickens, 
which should be young ones, for this method of preparation, draw, 
clean, and cut them up in the manner previously explained. When 
they are ready, wash the pieces and roll them in a pan of flour, 
covering the entire surface of each piece. Then, in a frying pan, 
melt fat, which may be chicken fat, bacon fat, part butter, lard, or 
any other frying fat that will give an agreeable flavor. When the 
fat is thoroughly hot, place in it the pieces of floured chicken and 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper. As soon as the pieces have 
browned on one side, turn them over and brown on the other side. 
Then reduce the heat, cover the frying pan with a tight-fitting lid, 
and continue to fry iriore slowly. If, after 25 or 30 minutes, the 
meat can be easily pierced with a fork, it is ready to serve ; if this 
cannot be done, add a small quantity of hot water, replace the 
cover, and simmer until the meat can be pierced readily. To serve 
fried chicken, place the pieces on a platter and garnish the dish with 
parsley so as to add to its appearance. 

50. Gravy for Fried Cliicken. — If desired, brown gravy 
may be made and served with fried chicken. After the chicken has 
been removed from the frying pan, provided an excessive amount of 
fat remains, pour off some of it. Sprinkle the fat that remains with 



28 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

dry flour, 1 tablespoonful to each cupful of liquid that is to be used, 
which may be milk, cream, water, or any mixture of the three. Stir 
the flour into the hot fat. Heat the liquid and add this hot liquid 
to the fat and flour in the frying pan. Stir rapidly so that no lumps 
will form, and, if necessary, season with more salt and pepper to 
suit the taste. 

Gravy may also be made in this manner : Stir cold liquid slowly 
into the flour in the proportion of 1 tablespoonful of flour to 1 cup- 
ful of liquid, which may be milk, cream, water, or any mixture of 
the three. Add the cold liquid and flour to the frying pan contain- 
ing a small amount of fat in which the chicken was fried. Stir 
rapidly until the gravy has thickened and there are no lumps. 

Very often the giblets, that is, the liver, heart, and gizzard of 
chicken, are used in making gravy. For example, the giblets may 
be cooked in water until they are tender and then sauted in butter 
to serve, and when this is done the water in which they were cooked 
may be used for making gravy. Again, if it is not desired to eat 
them in this way, they may be chopped fine and added to gravy made 
from the fat that remains from frying. 

51. Maryland. Fried Chicken. — Maryland fried chicken is 
a popular dish with many persons. As a rule, corn fritters are used 
as a garnish and served with the chicken, and strips of crisp bacon 
are placed over the top of it. Often, too, potato croquettes are 
served on the same olatter. a combination that makes almost an 
entire meal. 

To prepare Maryland fried chicken, draw, clean, and cut up young 
chickens. Then wash the pieces and dry them with a soft cloth. 
Sprinkle the pieces with salt and pepper, and dip each into fine 
cracker crumbs or corn meal, then into beaten egg, and again into 
the crumbs or the corn meal. Next, melt in a frying pan chicken or 
bacon fat, part butter, lard, or any other fat for frying. When it is 
hot, place the pieces of chicken in it. Fry them until they are brown 
on one side ; then turn and brown them on the other side. Lower 
the temperature and continue to fry slowly until the meat may be 
easily pierced with a fork, ^^'^hen the chicken is done, pour 2 cup- 
fuls of white sauce on a hot platter and place the chicken in it. Then 
garnish and serve. 

52. Fried Chicken With Paprika Sauce. — Chickens that 
are a trifle older than those used for plain fried chicken may be 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



29 



prepared to make what is known as fried chicken with paprika 
sauce. If in preparing this dish the chicken does not appear to be 
tender after frying, it may be made so by simmering it in the sauce. 
To prepare this chicken dish, which is tempting to many, draw, 
clean, and cut up a chicken as for frying. Then melt fat in a 
frying pan, place the pieces in the hot fat, sprinkle them with salt 
and pepper, and brown on both sides quickly. When both sides are 
brown, continue to fry the pieces until they are tender. Then 
sprinkle all with 2 level tablespoonfuls of flour, add 2 cupfuls of 
milk or thin cream, and allow this to thicken. Then sprinkle with 
paprika until the sauce is pink. Let the chicken simmer slowly until 
the sauce penetrates the meat a little. Serve on a platter with a 
garnish- 



PREPARATIOSr BY ROASTING 

53. Roasting is the cookery process that is commonly employed 
for preparing chickens that are of good size, as well as turkeys, 
ducks, and geese. It is also followed at times for cooking guinea 
fowl, partridges, pheasants, and similar small birds. As a rule, 
birds prepared in this 
way are filled with stufiF- 
ing, which may be made 
in so many ways that 
roasted stuffed poultry 
makes a delightful change 
in the regular routine 
of meals. 



54. Roast Cliick- 
en.^ — Roasting is the 
best method to employ 




Fig. 27 



for the preparation of old chicken unless, of course, it is extremely 
old and tough. Then stewing is about the only method that is satis- 
factory. Chicken for roasting should weigh no less than 3 pounds. 
Chicken prepared according to the following directions makes a dish 
that is very appetizing. 

To prepare chicken for roasting, clean and draw it in the manner 
previously given. When it is made clean, rub salt and pepper on the 
inside of the cavity, and stuff the cavity of the chicken, as shown in 
Fig. 27, with any desirable stufiSng. Directions for preparing stuff- 

WI— CS-12 



30 



POULTRY AND GAME 



§12 




Fig. 28 



ing are given later. Also, fill with stuffing the space from which 
the crop was removed, inserting it through the slit in the neck. 

Thread a large darning 
needle with white cord 
and sew up the slit in 
the neck, as well as the 
one between the legs, as 
in Fig. 28, so that the 
stuffing will not fall out. 
Also, force the neck in- 
side of the skin, and tie 
the skin with a piece of 
string, as in Fig. 29. 
Then, as Fig. 29 also 
shows, truss the chicken 
by forcing the tip of each 
wing back of the first wing joint, making a triangle; also, tie the 
ends of the legs together and pull them down, tying them fast to 
the tail, as in Fig. 30. Trussing in this manner will give the chicken 
a much better appearance for serving than if it were not so fastened ; 
but, of course, before it is placed on the table, the strings must be 
cut and removed. After stuffing and trussing, put the chicken on 
its back in a roasting pan, sprinkle it with flour, and place it in a 
very hot oven. Sear the skin quickly. Then reduce the temperature 
slightly and pour a cup- 
ful of water into the 
roasting pan. Baste the 
chicken every 10 or 15 
minutes with this water, 
until it is well browned 
and the breast and legs 
may be easily pierced 
with a fork. Remove 
to a platter and serve. 
If gravy is desired, it 
may be made in the 
roasting pan in the same 
way as for fried chicken. The giblets may be cut into pieces and 
added or they may be left out and served after first cooking and then 
browning them. 




Fig. 29 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



31 



55. Roast Turkey. — In America, roast turkey is usually con- 
sidered as a holiday dish, being served most frequently in the homes 
on Thanksgiving day. However, at times virhen the price is moder- 
ate, it is not an extravagance to serve roast turkey for other occa- 
sions. Roasting is practically the only way in which turkey is 
prepared in the usual household, and it is by far the best method 
of preparation. Occasionally, however, a very tough turkey is 
steamed before roasting in order to make it sufficiently tender. 

The preparation of roast turkey does not differ materially from 
the method given for the preparation of roast chicken. After the 
turkey is cleaned, drawn, and prepared according to the directions 
previously given, rub the inside of the cavity with salt and pepper. 
Then stuff with any desirable stuffing, filling the cavity and also the 
space under the skin of 
the neck where the crop 
was removed. Then sew 
up the opening, draw the 
skin over the neck and tie 
it, and truss the turkey 
by forcing the tip of each 
wing back of the first 
wing joint in a triangular 
shape and tying both ends 
of the legs to the tail. 
When thus made ready, 
place the turkey in the 
roasting pan so that the 

back rests on the pan and the legs are on top. Then dredge with 
flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place in a hot oven. 
When its surface is well browned, reduce the heat and baste every 
15 minutes until the turkey is cooked. This will usually require 
"about 3 hours, depending, of course, on the size of the bird. For 
basting, melt 4 tablespoonfuls of butter or bacon fat in ^ cupful 
of boiling water. Pour this into the roasting pan. Add water 
when this evaporates, and keep a sufficient amount for basting. 
Turn the turkey several times during the roasting, so that the 
sides and back, as well as the breast, will be browned. When the 
turkey can be easily pierced with a fork, remove it from the roast- 
ing pan, cut the strings and pull them out, place on a platter, garnish, 
and serve. Gravy to be served with roast turkey may be made in 




Fig. 30 



32 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

the manner mentioned for making gravy to be served with fried 
chicken. 

56. Roast Duck. — ^While young duck is often broiled, the 
usual method of preparing this kind of poultry is by roasting; in 
fact, roasting is an excellent way in which to cook duck that is 
between the broiling age and full maturity. 

57. Duck is roasted in practically the same way as chicken or 
turkey. In the case of a young duck, or spring duck, however, 
stuffing is not used. After it is drawn and cleaned, truss it by fold- 
ing back the wings and tying the ends of the legs to the tail, so as 
to give it a good appearance when served. Season with salt and 
pepper and dredge with flour, and, over the breast, to prevent it 
from burning, place strips of bacon or salt pork. When thus made 
ready, put the duck in a roasting pan, pour in ^ cupful of water, and 
cook it in a hot oven until it is verj'- tender, basting it about every 
15 minutes during the roasting. About 15 minutes before the roast- 
ing is done, remove the strips of bacon or pork, so as to permit 
the breast underneath them to brown. Serve on a platter with a 
garnish. Make gravy if desired. 

58. In the case of an old duck, proceed as for roasting chicken 
or turkey ; that is, draw, clean, stuff, and truss it. In addition, place 
strips of bacon or salt pork over its breast. Place it in a roasting 
pan, pour i cupful of water into the pan, and put it in a hot oven. 
During the roasting baste the duck every 15 minutes; also, as in 
roasting a young duck, remove the bacon or salt pork in plenty of 
time to permit the part underneath to brown. When the surface 
is well browned and the meat may be easily pierced with a fork, 
place the duck on a platter, remove the strings used to sew it up, 
garnish, and serve. Make gravy if desired. 

59. Roast Goose. — Specific directions for roasting goose are 
not given, because the methods differ in no way from those already 
given for roasting duck. Very young goose, or green goose, is 
usually roasted without being stuffed, just as young duck. Older 
goose, however, is stuffed, trussed, and roasted just as old duck. 
A very old goose may be placed in a roasting pan and steamed until 
it is partly tender before roasting. Apples in some form or other 
are commonly served with goose. For example, rings of fried apple 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 33 

may be used as a garnish, or apple sauce or stewed or baked apples 
may be served as an accompaniment. Make gravy if desired. 

60. Roast Small Birds. — Such small birds as guinea fowl, 
partridge, pheasant, quail, etc. may be roasted if desired, but on 
account of being so small they are seldom filled with stuffing. To 
roast such poultry, first clean, draw, and truss them. Then lard 
them with strips of bacon or salt pork, and place in a roasting pan 
in a very hot oven. During the roasting, turn them so as to brown 
all sides; also, baste every 15 minutes during the roasting with the 
water that has been poured into the roasting pan. Continue the 
roasting until the flesh is very soft and the joints can be easily pulled 
apart. Serve with a garnish. Make gravy if desired. 

61. Stuffing for Roast Poultry. — As has been mentioned, 
stuffing, or dressing, of some kind is generally used when poultry 
is roasted. Therefore, so that the housewife may be prepared to 
vary the stuffing she uses from time to time, recipes for several 
kinds are here given. Very often, instead of using the giblets for 
gravy, they are cooked in water and then chopped and added to the 
stuffing. Giblets are not included in the recipes here given, but they 
may be added if desired. The quantities stated in these recipes are 
usually sufficient for a bird of average size ; however, for a smaller 
or a larger bird the ingredients may be decreased or increased 
accordingly. 

Bread Stuffing 

4 c. dry bread crumbs 1 tsp. celery salt, or ^ tsp. 

i c. butter celery seed 

1 small onion J tsp. powdered sage 

1 beaten egg (if desired) 

1 tsp. salt i tsp. pepper 

Pour a sufficient amount of hot water over the bread crumbs to 
moisten them well. Melt the butter and allow it to brown slightly. 
Add the onion, chopped fine, to the butter and pour this over the 
bread crumbs. Add the beaten egg, salt, celery salt, and other 
seasonings, mix thoroughly, and stuff into the bird. 

Cracker Stuffing 

3 c. cracker crumbs i tsp. salt 

1 small onion (if desired) | tsp. powdered sage (if desired) 

i c. butter | tsp. pepper 

Moisten the cracker crumbs with hot milk or water until they are 
quite soft. Brown the chopped onion with the butter and pour 



34 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

over the crackers. Add the seasonings, mix thoroughly, and stuflE 
into the bird. 

Oyster Stuffing 

3 c. dry bread crumbs i tsp. pepper 

i c. butter 1 c. oysters 

1 tsp. salt I c. chopped celery 

Moisten the bread crumbs with a sufficient amount of hot water 
to make them quite soft. Brown the butter slightly and add it, with 
the seasonings, to the bread. Mix with this the oysters and chopped 
celery. Stuff into the bird. 

Chestnut Stuffing 

1 pt. blanched chestnuts 1 tsp. salt 

1 pt. bread crumbs i tsp. pepper 

i c. butter 2 Tb. chopped parsley 

Blanch the chestnuts in boiling water to remove the dark skin 
that covers them. Cook them until they are quite soft, and then 
chop them or mash them. Moisten the bread crumbs with hot water 
and add the chestnuts. Brown the butter slightly and pour it over 
the mixture. Add the seasonings and chopped parsley and stuff. 

Green-Pepper Stuffing 
1 qt. dried bread crumbs i c. finely chopped green pepper 

1 c. stewed tomatoes 2 Tb. chopped parsley 
i c. melted butter 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb, bacon fat ^ tsp. pepper 

1 small onion, chopped 

Moisten the bread crumbs with the stewed tomatoes and add a 
sufficient amount of hot water to make the crumbs quite soft. Melt 
the butter and bacon fat, add the onion, green pepper, and the 
seasonings, and pour over the crumbs. Mix thoroughly and stuff. 

Rice Stuffing 

2 c. steamed rice 1 tsp. salt 

2 c. bread crumbs i tsp. pepper 

1 c. stewed tomatoes i c. butter 

i c. chopped pimiento 4 small strips bacon, diced and 

2 Tb. chopped parsley fried brown 
1 small onion, chopped 

Mix the steamed rice with the bread crumbs. Add the stewed 
tomatoes, pimiento, chopped parsley, chopped onion, salt, pepper, 
melted butter, bacon and bacon fat, and a sufficient amount of hot 
water to moisten the whole well. Mix thoroughly and stuff. 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 35 

Peanut Stuffing for Roast Duck 

1 pt. cracker crumbs i tsp. pepper 

1 c. shelled peanuts, finely Dash of Cayenne pepper 

chopped i c. butter 

i tsp. salt Hot milk 

Mix the crumbs and the chopped peanuts. Add the salt, pepper, 
and Cayenne pepper, and pour over them the melted butter and a 
sufficient amount of hot milk to soften the whole. Stuff into the 
duck. 

Liver Stuffing for Roast Duck 
1 duck liver i tsp. salt 

i c. butter i tsp. pepper 

1 small onion, chopped 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

2 c. dry bread crumbs 1 egg 

Chop the liver and saute in the butter to which has been added 
the chopped onion. Pour over the bread crumbs. Then add the 
salt, pepper, finely chopped parsley, and the beaten egg. Pour over 
all a sufficient amount of water to moisten well. Stuff into the duck. 



BONED CHICKEX 

62. To offer variety in the serving of chicken, as well as to 
present an easily carved bird, the process known as boning is often 
resorted to. Boning, as will be readily understood, consists in 
removing the flesh from the bones before the bird is cooked. Boned 
chicken may be prepared by roasting or broiling. In either case, 
the cookery process is the same as that already given for poultry 
that is not boned. If it is to be roasted, the cavity that results from 
the removal of the bones and internal organs should be filled with 
stuffing or forcemeat, so that the bird will appear as if nothing had 
been removed. If it is to be broiled, stuffing is not necessary. 
Cooked boned chicken may be served either hot or cold. Of course, 
other kinds of poultry may be boned if desired, and if the directions 
here given for boning chicken are thoroughly learned no difficulty 
will be encountered in performing this operation on any kind. 
Boning is not a wasteful process as might be supposed, because 
after the flesh is removed from the bones, they may be used in the 
making of soup. 

63. Before proceeding to bone a chicken, singe it, pull out the 
pin feathers, cut off the head, remove the tendons from the legs. 




Fig. 31 




Fig. 32 




Fig. 33 




Fig. 34 




Fig. 35 




Fig. 36 




Fig. 37 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



39 




Fig. 38 



and take out the crop through the neck. The bird may be drawn or 
not before boning it, but in any event care must be taken not to 
break any part of the 
skin. With these mat- 
ters attended to, wash 
the skin well and wipe 
it carefully. First, cut 
off the legs at the first 
joint, and, with the point 
of a sharp knife, as 
shown in Fig. 31, loosen 
the skin and muscles 
just above the joint by 
cutting around the bone. 
Cut the neck off close to 
the body, as in Fig. 32. 
Then, starting at the 
neck, cut the skin clear down the back to the tail, as in Fig. 33. 
Begin on one side, and scrape the flesh, with the skin attached to it, 
from the back bone, as In Fig. 34. When the shoulder blade is 
reached, push the flesh from it with the fingers, as in Fig. 35, until 
the wing joint is reached. Disjoint the wing where it is attached 
to the body, as in Fig. 36, and loosen the skin from the wing bone 
down to the second joint. Disjoint the bone here and remove it up 
to this place, as Fig. 37 illustrates. The remaining bone is left in 

the tip of the wing to 
give it shape. When 
the bone from one wing 
is removed, turn the 
chicken around and re- 
move the bone from the 
other wing. Next, start 
at the back, separating 
the flesh from the ribs, 
as in Fig. 38, taking care 
not to penetrate into the 
side cavity of the chick- 
en, provided it has not 
been drawn. Push the flesh down to the thigh, as in Fig. 39, dis- 
joint the bone here, and remove it down to the second joint, as in 




Fig. 39 




Fig. 40 




Fig. 41 




Fig. 42 




Fig. 43 




Fig. 44 




Fig. 45 



42 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

Fig. 40. Disjoint the bone at the other joint, and remove the skin 
and meat from the bone by turning them inside out, as in Fig. 41, 
If the bone has been properly loosened at the first joint of the leg, 
there will be no trouble in slipping it out. When this is done, turn 
the meat and skin back again, so that they will be right side out. 
Then proceed in the same way with the other leg. Next, free the 
flesh from the collar bone down to the breast bone on both sides, 
proceeding as in Fig. 42. When the ridge of the breast bone is 
reached, care must be taken not to break the skin that lies very 
close to the bone. The fingers should be used to separate the flesh 
at this place. When the sides and front have been thus taken care 
of, free the skin and the flesh from the bones over the rump. After 
this is done, the skeleton and internal organs of the undrawn bird 
may be removed, leaving the flesh intact. The skeleton of a chicken 
will appear as in Fig. 43. 

If the boned chicken is to be roasted, the entire chicken, including 
the spaces from which the wing and leg bones were removed, may 
be filled with highly seasoned stuffing. When this is done, shape 
the chicken as much as possible to resemble its original shape and 
sew up the back. The chicken will then be ready to roast. If 
the boned chicken is to be broiled, shape it on the broiler as shown 
in Fig. 44 and broil. When broiled, boned chicken should appear as 
in Fig. 45. 

PREPARATION BY STEAVING AND OTHER COOKING METHODS 

64. Chicken Stew With. Duzn.plings or Noodles. — Per- 
haps the most common way of preparing chicken is to stew it. 
When chicken is so cooked, such an addition as dumplings or noodles 
is generally made because of the excellent food combination that 
results. For stewing, an old chicken with a great deal of flavor 
should be used in preference to a young one, which will have less 
flavor. 

In order to prepare chicken by stewing, clean, draw, and cut up 
the bird according to directions previously given. Place the pieces 
in a large kettle and cover them well with boiling water. Bring all 
quickly to the boiling point and add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Then 
remove the scum, lower the temperature, and continue to cook at 
the simmering point. Keep the pieces well covered with water; 
also, keep the stew pot covered during the cooking. When the 
chicken has become tender enough to permit the pieces to be easily 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 43 

pierced with a fork, remove them to a deep platter or a vegetable 
dish. Dumplings or noodles may be cooked in the chicken broth, 
as the water in which the chicken was stewed is called, or they may 
be boiled or steamed separately. If they are cooked separately, 
thicken the broth with flour and serve it over the chicken with the 
noodles or dumplings. 

65. Fricassee of Clileken. — For chicken that is tough, fricas- 
seeing is an excellent cooking method to employ. Indeed, since it 
is a long method of cookery, a rather old, comparatively tough fowl 
lends itself best to fricasseeing. Fricassee of chicken also is a dish 
that requires a great deal of flavor to be drawn from the meat, and 
this, of course, cannot be done if a young chicken is used. 

To prepare fricassee of chicken, clean and cut the bird into pieces 
according to the directions previously given. Put these into a 
saucepan, cover with boiling water, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, bring 
to the boiling point quickly, skim, and reduce the temperature so 
that the meat will simmer slowly until it is tender. Next, remove 
the pieces of chicken from the water in which they were cooked, roll 
thelm in flour, and saute them in butter or chicken fat until they are 
nicely browned. If more than 2 or 2^ cupfuls of broth remains, boil 
it until the quantity is reduced to this amount. Then moisten 2 or 
3 tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold water, add this to the 
stock, and cook until it thickens. If desired, the broth may be 
reduced more and thin cream may be added to make up the necessary 
quantity. Arrange the pieces of chicken on a deep platter, pour the 
sauce over them, season with salt and pepper if necessary, and 
serve. To enhance the appearance of this dish,- the platter may be 
garnished with small three-cornered pieces of toast, tiny carrots, or 
carrots and green peas. 

66. Chicken Pie. — A good change from the usual ways of 
serving chicken may be brought about by means of chicken pie. 
Such a dish is simple to prepare, and for it may be used young or 
old chicken. 

To prepare chicken pie, dress, clean, and cut up a chicken in the 
usual manner. Put it into a saucepan, add a small onion and a sprig 
of parsley, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly until the meat 
is tender. When the meat is cooked, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 
i teaspoonful of pepper, and when it is perfectly tender remove it 
from the stock. Thicken the stock with 1 tablespoonful of flour to 



44 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

each cupful of liquid. Next, arrange the chicken in a baking dish. 
It may be left on the bones or cut into large pieces and the bones 
removed. To it add small carrots and onions that have been pre- 
viously cooked until tender and pour the thickened stock over all. 
Cover this with baking-powder biscuit dough made according to the 
directions given in Hot Breads and rolled \ inch thick. Make some 
holes through the dough with the point of a sharp knife to let the 
steam escape, and bake in a moderate oven until the dough is well 
risen and a brown crust is formed. Then remove from the oven 
and serve. 

67. Chicken Curry. — Chicken combined with rice is usually 
an agreeable food combination, but when flavored with curry 
powder, as in the recipe here given, it is a highly flavored dish that 
appeals to the taste of many persons. 

Chicken Curry 

1 3-lb. chicken 1 Tb. curry powder 

2 Tb. butter 2 tsp. salt 

2 onions 2 c. steamed rice 

Clean, dress, and cut up the chicken as for stewing. Put the 
butter in a hot frying pan, add the onions, sliced thin, then the 
pieces of chicken, and cook for 10 minutes. Parboil the liver, giz- 
zard, and heart, cut them into pieces and add them to the chicken 
in the frying pan. Sprinkle the curry powder and the salt over the 
whole. Add boiling water or the stock in which the giblets were 
cooked, and simmer until the chicken is tender. Remove the meat 
from the frying pan and place it on a deep platter. Surround it 
with a border of steamed rice. Thicken the stock in the frying pan 
slightly with flour and pour the gravy over the chicken. Serve hot. 

68. Chicken en Casserole. — Food prepared in casseroles 
always seems to meet with the approval of even the most discrimi- 
nating persons; and chicken prepared in this way with vegetables 
is no exception to the rule. For such a dish should be selected a 
chicken of medium size that is neither very old nor very young. 
Any flavor that the bird contains is retained, so a strong flavor is 
not desirable. 

In preparing chicken en casserole, first clean, dress, and cut it up 
in the manner directed for stewed chicken. Place the pieces in a 
casserole dish, together with 1 cupful of small carrots or larger 
carrots cut into strips. Fry a finely chopped onion with several 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 45 

strips of bacon, and cut these more finely while frying until the 
whole is well browned. Then add them to the meat in the casserole 
dish. Also, add 1 cupful of potato balls or 1 cupful of diced pota- 
toes. Season well with salt and pepper, add 2 tablespoonf uls of flour, 
and over the whole pour sufficient hot water to cover. Cover the 
casserole dish, place it in a moderate oven, and cook slowly until the 
chicken is tender. Serve from the dish. 

69. Jellied Clilcken. — The housewife who desires to serve 
an unusual chicken dish will find that there is much in favor of 
jellied chicken. Aside from its food value, jellied chicken has 
merit in that it appeals to the eye, especially if the mold used in its 
preparation has a pleasing shape. 

Jellied Chicken 

1 3- or 4-lb. chicken 1 hard-cooked egg 

2 tsp. salt 1 pimiento 

Several slices of onion Several sprigs of parsley 

Clean, dress, and cut up the chicken. Put it into a saucepan and 
cover with boiling water. Season with the salt and add the slices 
of onion. Cook slowly until the tneat will fall from the bones. 
Remove the chicken from the saucepan, take the meat from the 
bones, and chop it into small pieces. Reduce the stock to about 
14 cupfuls, strain it, and skim off the fat. With this done, place 
slices of the hard-cooked egg in the bottom of a wet mold. Chop 
the pimiento and sprigs of parsley and mix them with the chopped 
meat. Put the mixture on top of the sliced egg, and pour the stock 
over the whole. Keep in a cool place until it is set. If the stock 
is not reduced and more jelly is desired, unflavored gelatine may 
be dissolved and added to coagulate the liquid. To serve jellied 
chicken, remove from the mold, turn upside down, so that the eggs 
are on top and act as a garnish, and then cut in thin slices. 

70. Chicken Becliamel. — Still another chicken dish that may 
be used to break the monotony of meals is chicken bechamel, the 
word bechamel being the name of a sauce invented by Bechamel, 
who was steward to Louis XIV, a king of France. 

Chicken Bechamel 

1 good-sized chicken i c. chopped pimiento 

2 tsp. salt 3 Tb. flour 

i tsp. pepper 1 c. thin cream 

1 c. small mushrooms 

WI-C3— 13 



46 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

Clean, dress, and cut up the chicken. Place the pieces into a 
saucepan, and cover with boiling water. Add the salt and the 
pepper, and allow to come to the boiling point. Remove the 
scum and simmer the chicken slowly until it is tender. Remove 
the chicken from the liquid, take the meat from the bones, and cut 
it into small pieces. Add to these the mushrooms and chopped 
pimiento. Reduce the stock to 1 cupful and thicken it with the flour 
added to the thin cream. Cook until the sauce is thickened. Then 
add to it the chopped chicken with the other ingredients. Heat all 
thoroughly and serve on toast points or in timbale cases, the making 
of which is explained in Meat, Part 2. 

71. Cookingr of Giblets. — As has been pointed out, the gib- 
lets — that is, the liver, heart, and gizzard of all kinds of fowl — 
are used in gravy making and as an ingredient for stuffing. When 
poultry is stewed, as in making stewed chicken, it is not uncommon 
to cook the giblets with the pieces of chicken. The gizzard and 
heart especially require long, slow cooking to make them tendei 
enough to be eaten. Therefore, when poultry is broiled, fried, or 
roasted, some other cookery method must be resorted to, as these 
processes are too rigid for the preparation of giblets. In such cases, 
the best plan is to cook them in water until they are tender and 
then saute them in butter. When cooked in this way, they may be 
served with the poultry, for to many persons they are very palatable. 



DISHES PROM LiEPT-OVER POriiTRY 

72. Left-over poultry of any kind is too valuable to be wasted, 
but even if this were not so there are so many practical ways in 
which such left-overs may be used to advantage that it would be the 
height of extravagance not to utilize them. The bones that remain 
from roast fowl after carving are especially good for soup making, 
as they will yield quite a quantity of flavor when they are thoroughly 
cooked. If sufficient meat remains on the carcass to permit of 
slicing, such meat may be served cold. However, if merely small 
pieces are left or if fried or broiled poultry remains, it will be 
advisable to make some other use of these left-overs. It is often 
possible for the ingenious housewife to add other foods to them so 
as to increase the quantity and thus make them serve more. For 
example, a small quantity of oork or veal may be satisfactorily used 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 47 

with chicken, as may also pieces of hard-cooked eggs, celery, mush- 
rooms, etc. In fact, salads may be made by combining such ingre- 
dients and salad dressings. To show the use of left-overs still 
further, there are here given a number of recipes that may well be 
used. 

73. Chicken Salad. — ^A common way in which to utilize left- 
over chicken is in chicken salad. Such salad may be served to 
advantage for luncheons and other light meals. 

Chicken Salad 

2 c. cold diced chicken Salad dressing 

1 c. chopped celery 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 small onion, chopped 
Mix the meat with the chopped celery and onion. Marinate with 
well-seasoned vinegar or a little lemon juice. French dressing may 
be used for this if oil is desired. Just before serving pour off any 
excess liquid. Add any desired salad dressing. Heap the salad on 
lettuce leaves and garnish with slices of the hard-cooked eggs. 

74. Chicken a la King. — Chicken a la king is not necessarily 
a left-over dish, for it may be made from either left-over chicken 
or, if desired, chicken cooked especially for it. It makes an excel- 
lent dish to prepare in a chafing dish, but it may be conveniently 
prepared in a saucepan on the fire and served in any desirable way. 

Chicken X la King 

3 Tb. fat (butter or bacon fat 1 tsp. salt 

or part of each) i c. mushrooms 

2 Tb. flour i c. canned pimiento 

f c. chicken stock 1^ c. cold chicken 

1 c. milk or thin cream 2 egg's 

Melt the fat in a saucepan, add the flour, and stir until well mixed. 
Heat the stock and the milk or cream, pour this into the mixture, 
stir rapidly, and bring to boiling point. Add the salt and the 
mushrooms, pimientoes, and cold chicken cut into pieces 4 to 1 inch 
long, allow the mixture to come to the boiling point again, and add 
the slightly beaten eggs. Remove from the fire at once to prevent 
the egg from curdling. Serve over pieces of fresh toast and sprinkle 
with paprika. 

75. Chicken Croquettes. — Left-over chicken may be used 
to advantage for croquettes made according to the following recipe. 
When the ingredients listed are combinejJ with chicken, an espe- 



48 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

cially agreeable food will be the result. If there is not sufficient cold 
chicken to meet the requirements, a small quantity of cold veal or 
pork may be chopped with the chicken. 

Chicken Croquettes 
3 Tb. fat 2 c. cold chicken, chopped 

i c. flour i c. mushrooms, chopped 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. parsley, chopped 

i tsp. pepper 1 egg 

i tsp. paprika Fine bread crumbs 

1 c. chicken stock or cream 
Melt the fat in a saucepan, add the flour, and stir until well 
blended. Add the salt, pepper, and paprika. Heat the stock or 
cream and add to the mixture in the saucepan. Stir constantly 
until the sauce is completely thickened. Then add the chopped 
chicken, mushrooms, and parsley. When cold, shape into oblong 
croquettes, roll in the egg, slightly beaten, and then in fine crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat until brown. Serve with a garnish or some vege- 
table, such as peas, diced carrots, or small pieces of cauliflower, as 
well as with left-over chicken gravy or well-seasoned white sauce. 

76. Turkey Hasb. — Possibly the simplest way in which to 
utilize left-over turkey meat is to make it up into hash. Such a 
dish may be used for almost any meal, and when made according 
to the recipe here given it will suit the taste of nearly every person. 

Turkey Hash 

2 Tb. butter i c. finely chopped raw potato 

i c. coarse rye-bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

1 small onion, sliced i tsp. pepper 

2 c. finely chopped cold turkey 1 pt. milk 

Melt the butter in a saucepan. When brown, add to it the rye- 
bread crumbs and mix well. Then add the sliced onion, chopped 
turkey, potato, salt, and pepper. Cook for a short time on top of 
the stove, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Pour the milk over 
the whole, and place the pan in the oven or on the back of the stove. 
Cook slowly until the milk is reduced and the hash is sufficiently 
dry to serve. Serve on buttered toast. 

77. Chicken With Rice. — Left-over chicken may be readily 
combined with rice to make a nutritious dish. To prepare chicken 
with rice, add to left-over gravy any left-over cold chicken cut into 
small pieces. If there is not enough gravy to cover the meat, add 
sufficient white sauce ; if no gravy remains, use white sauce entirely. 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 49 

Heat thfe chicken in the gravy or the sauce to the boiling point. 
Then heap a mound of fresh steamed or boiled rice in the center of a 
deep platter or a vegetable dish and pour the chicken and sauce 
over it. Serve hot. 

78. Baked Poultry Witli Rice. — A casserole or a baking 
dish serves as a good utensil in which to prepare a left-over dish 
of any kind of poultry, because it permits vegetables to be added 
and cooked thoroughly. Baked poultry with rice is a dish that may 
be prepared in such a utensil. 

Line a casserole or a baking dish with a thick layer of fresh 
steamed or boiled rice. Fill the center with chopped cold poultry, 
which may be chicken, turkey, duck, or goose. Add peas, chopped 
carrots, potato, and a few slices of onion in any desirable propor- 
tion. Over this pour sufficient left-over gravy or white sauce to 
cover well. First, steam thoroughly; then uncover the utensil and 
bake slowly until the vegetables are cooked and the entire mixture 
is well heated. Serve from the casserole or baking dish. 



SERVING AND CARVING POULTRY 

79. Poultry of any kind should always be served on a platter 
or in a dish that has been heated in the oven or by running hot water 
over it. After placing the cooked bird on the platter or the dish 
from which it is to be served, it should be taken to the dining room 
and placed before the person who is to serve. If it is roasted, it will 
require carving. If not, the pieces may be served as they are desired 
by the individuals at the table. Poultry having both dark and white 
meat is usually served according to the taste of each individual at 
the table. If no preference is stated, however, a small portion of 
each kind of meat is generally served. 

80. The carving of broiled or roast chicken, turkey, duck, or 
goose may be done in the kitchen, but having the whole bird brought 
to the table and carved there adds considerably to a meal. Carving 
is usually done by the head of the family, but in a family in which 
there are boys each one should be taught to carve properly, so that 
he may do the carving in the absence of another person. 

For carving, the bird should be placed on the platter so that it 
rests on its back ; also, a well-sharpened carving knife and a fork 



50 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

should be placed at the right of the platter and the person who is to 




Fig. -te 



serve. To carve a bird, begin as shown in Fig. 46; that is, thrust 
the fork firmly into the side or breast of the fowl and cut through 




Fig. 47 



the skin where the leg joins the body, breaking the thigh joint. 



§12 



POULTRY AND GAME 



51 



Cut through this joint, severing the second joint and leg in one 
piece. Then, if desired, cut the leg apart at the second joint. As 




Fig. 48 



the portions are thus cut, they may be placed on a separate platter 
that is brought to the table heated. Next, in the same manner, cut 




Fig. 49 



off the other leg and separate it at the second joint. With the legs 
cut off, remove each wing at the joint where it is attached to the 



62 



POULTRY AND GAME 



§12 



body, proceeding as shown in Fig. 47. Then slice the meat from 
the breast by cutting down from the ridge of the breast bone toward 

the wing, as in Fig. 48. 
After this meat has been 
sliced off, there still re- 
mains some meat around 
the thigh and on the 
back. This should be 
sliced off or removed 
with the point of the 
knife, as in Fig. 49, so 
that the entire skeleton 
will be clean, as in 
Fig. 50. If the entire 
bird is not to be served, 
as much as is necessary 
may be cut and the re- 
mainder left on the bones. 
With each serving of 
meat a spoonful of dressing should be taken from the inside of 
the bird, provided it is stuffed, and, together with some gravy, 
served on the plate. 




Fig. 50 



GAME 



GENERAL DESCRIPTION 

81. Game, which includes the meat of deer, bear, rabbit, 
squirrel, wild duck, wild goose, partridge, pheasant, and some less 
common animals, such as possum, is not a particularly common food. 
However, it is sufficiently common to warrant a few directions con- 
cerning its use. Game can be purchased or caught only during 
certain seasons, designated by the laws of various states. Such laws 
are quite stringent and have been made for the protection of each 
particular species. 

82. The meat of wild animals and birds is usually strong in 
flavor. Just why this is so, however, is not definitely known. 
Undoubtedly some of the strong flavor is due to the particular food 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 53 

on which the animal or the bird feeds, and much of this flavor is 
due to extractives contained in the flesh. 

When game birds and animals have considerable fat surrounding 
the tissues, the greater part of it is often rejected because of its 
extremely high flavor. By proper cooking, however, much of this 
flavor, if it happens to be a disagreeable one, can be driven off. 

The general composition of the flesh of various kinds of game 
does not differ greatly from that of similar domestic animals or 
birds. For instance, the flesh of bear is similar in its composition 
to that of fat beef, as bear is one of the wild animals that is very 
fat. Venison, or the meat obtained from deer, contains much less 
fat, and its composition resembles closely that of very lean beef. 
Rabbits and most of the wild birds are quite lean ; in fact, they are so 
lean that it is necessary in the preparation of them to supply sufficient 
fat to make them more appetizing. 



RECIPES FOR GAME 

83. Only a few recipes for the preparation of game are here 
given, because, in the case of wild birds, the cookery methods do 
not differ materially from those given for poultry, and, in the case 
of such animals as bears, the directions for preparing steaks and 
other cuts are identical with the cooking of similar cuts of beef. 
Rabbit and squirrel are perhaps the most common game used as 
food in the home; therefore, directions for cleaning and cooking 
them receive the most consideration. 

84. Preparing a Rabbit for Cooking. — In order to pre- 
pare a rabbit for cooking, it must first be skinned and drawn, after 
which it may be cut up or left whole, depending on the cookery 
method that is to be followed. 

To skin a rabbit, first chop off the feet at the first joint; then 
remove the head at the first joint below the skull and slit the skin 
of the stomach from a point between the forelegs to the hind legs. 
With this done, remove the entrails carefully, proceeding in much 
the same manner as in removing the entrails of a chicken. Then 
slit the skin from the opening in the stomach around the back to the 
opposite side. Catch hold on the back and pull the skin first from 
the hind legs and then from the forelegs. If the rabbit is to be 
stewed, wash it thoroughly and separate it into pieces at the joints. 



54 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

If it is to be roasted or braized, it may be left whole. A rabbit that 
is left whole presents a better appearance when it is trussed. To 
truss a rabbit, force the hind legs toward the head and fasten them 
in place by passing a skewer through the leg on one side, through 
the body, and into the leg on the other side. Then skewer the front 
legs back under the body in the same way. In such a case, the head 
may be left on or removed, as desired. 

85. Roast Rabbit. — Roasting is the cookery process often 
used to prepare rabbit. To cook it in this way, first skin and clean 
the animal and stuff it. Any of the stuffings previously given may 
be used for this purpose. Then skewer the legs in position, place 
strips of bacon across the back, put in a roasting pan, and dredge 
with salt and pepper. Also, add -J cupful of hot water to which 
has been added a little butter or bacon fat. Roast in a quick oven, 
and baste every 15 minutes during the roasting. A few minutes 
before the rabbit is tender enough to be pierced with a fork, remove 
the strips of bacon so that the flesh underneath may brown. Then 
remove from the pan and serve. 

86. Sauted Rabbit. — If it is desired to prepare a rabbit by 
sauteing, skin and clean it, cut it into pieces, and dry all the pieces 
with a soft cloth. Then melt bacon fat in a frying pan, and when 
it is hot place the pieces of rabbit in it and allow them to brown. 
Add several sprigs of parsley and two small onions, sliced, season 
with salt and pepper, add a slice or two of bacon, and pour water 
over the whole until it is nearly covered. Place a cover on the frying 
pan and simmer slowly. Add water when it is necessary. When 
the meat is tender, remove it from the frying pan. Then thicken 
the fluid that remains with a small amount of flour so as to make 
a gravy. Serve hot. 

87. Rabbit Pie. — Rabbit made into pie is also a desirable way 
in which to serve rabbit. To prepare such a dish, skin and clean 
one or more rabbits and cut them up into as small pieces as possible, 
removing the largest bones. Put these pieces into a baking dish, 
and over them place bacon cut into small strips. Sprinkle all with 
chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, and add a few slices of onion, as 
well as some strips of carrot and potato, if desired. Pour a suffi- 
cient amount of boiling water over the whole and allow to simmer 
slowly until the meat is partly cooked. Then place in the oven and 
cook until the meat is tender. Next, dredge the contents of tht 



§ 12 POULTRY AND GAME 55 

baking dish with flour and cover with a ^-inch layer of baking- 
powder biscuit dough. Make several slits through the dough to allow 
the steam to escape. Bake until the dough becomes a well-browned 
crust. Serve hot in the baking dish. 

88. Broiled Squirrel. — For cooking, squirrel is cleaned in 
practically the same way as rabbit. Squirrel may be made ready to 
eat by stewing, but as it is so small a creature, broiling is the usual 
method of preparation. To broil a squirrel, first remove the skin and 
clean it. Then break the bones along the spine, so that the squirrel 
can be spread out flat. When thus made ready, place it on a well- 
greased hot broiler and sear it quickly on one side ; then turn it and 
sear the other side. Next, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, place 
strips of bacon across the back, and allow it to broil slowly until 
it is well browned. Squirrel may be served in the same way as 
rabbit. 

89. Cuts of Venison. — The meat obtained from deer, called 
venison, as has been mentioned, may be cut up to form cuts similar 
to those obtained from beef, such as steaks and roasts. Although 
such meat is a rarity, it will be well to be familiar with a few of the 
methods of cooking it. These, however, do not differ materially 
from the methods of cooking other meats. 

90. Broiled Venison. — To prepare venison for broiling, cut 
a steak from 1 to IJ inches thick. Place this on a well-greased 
broiler and broil until well done. Serve on a hot platter. Garnish 
the broiled venison with parsley and pour over it sauce made as 
follows : 

Sauce for Broiled Venison 
2 Tb. butter 2 tsp. lemon juice 

2 Tb. flour i c. port wine 

i tsp. salt 6 finely chopped Maraschino 

I tsp. ground cinnamon cherries 

4 Tb. currant jelly 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, salt, ground cinna- 
mon, currant jelly, lemon juice, and the port wine, which should 
be heated with 1 cupful of water. Cook until the flour has thick- 
ened, remove from the fire, and add the cherries. 

91. Roast Fillet of Venison. — If a fillet of venison is to be 
roasted, proceed by larding it with strips of salt pork. Then place 



56 POULTRY AND GAME § 12 

it in a pan with one small onion, sliced, a bay leaf, and a small quan- 
tity of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and i teaspoonful of pepper. 
Dilute i cupful of vinegar with f cupful of water and add a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Pour this over the fillet and 
place it in a hot oven. Cook until the liquid has evaporated suffi- 
ciently to allow the venison to brown. Turn, so as to brown on both 
sides, and when quite tender and well browned, serve on a hot 
platter. 

92. Roast Leg of Venison. — If a leg of venison is to be 
roasted, first remove the skin, wipe the meat with a damp cloth, 
and cover it with a paste made of flour and water. Then put it 
into a roasting pan and roast in a very hot oven. Baste with hot 
water every 15 minutes for about IJ hours. At the end of this 
time, remove the paste, spread the surface with butter, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and continue to roast for 1 to IJ hours longer. 
Baste every 15 minutes, basting during the last hour with hot water 
in which has been melted a small quantity of butter. Then remove 
the venison from the pan and serve it on a hot platter with any 
desired sauce. 



POULTRY AND GAME 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Of what value is poultry in the diet? 

(2) What effect do the feeding and care of poultry have upon it as food? 

(3) Mention briefly the proper preparation of poultry killed for market. 

(4) (o) What are the most important things to consider when poultry is 
to be selected? (6) Give the points that indicate good quality of poultry. 

(5) How would you determine the age of a chicken? 

(6) How would you determine the freshness of a chicken? 

(7) (o) What are the marks of cold-storage poultry? (6) Should cold- 
storage poultry be drawn or undrawn ? Tell why. 

(8) How should frozen poultry be thawed? 

(9) Tell briefly how turkey should be selected. 

(10) At what age and season is turkey best? 

(11) Discuss the selection of : (a) ducks; (b) geese. 

(12) (o) How does the composition of poultry compare with that of meat? 
(6) What kind of chicken has a high food value? 

(13) (a) How should a chicken be dressed? (6) What care should be 
given to the skin in plucking? 

(14) Give briefly the steps in drawing a chicken. 

(15) Give briefly the steps in cutting up a chicken. 

(16) How is poultry prepared for : (a) roasting? (6) frying? (c) broiling? 
(d) stewing? 

(17) (o) Describe trussing. (6) Why is trussing done? 

(18) Give briefly the steps in boning a chicken. 

(19) . Tell briefly how to serve and carve a roasted bird. 

(20) Discuss game in a general way. 



ADDITIONAl, "WORK 

Select a fowl by applying the tests given for selection in the lesson. Prepare 
it by what seems to you to be the most economical method. Tell how many 
persons are served and the use made of the left-overs. Compute the cost per 
serving by dividing the cost of the fowl by the number of servings it made. 

At another time, select a chicken for frying by applying the tests given in 
the lesson. Compute the cost per serving by dividing the cost of the chicken by 
the number of servings it made. 

Compare the cost per serving of the fried chicken with that of the fowl, to 
find which is the more economical. In each case, collect the bones after the 
chicken is eaten and weigh them to determine which has the greater proportion 
of bone to meat, the fowl or the frying chicken. Whether you have raised the 
poultry yourself or have purchased it in the market, use the market price in 
computing your costs. Weigh the birds carefully before drawing them. 

§12 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



FISH 



FISH IN THE DIET 

1. Fish provides another class of high-protein or tissue-building 
food. Asthis term is generally understood, it includes both verte- 
brate fish — that is, fish having a backbone, such as salmon, cod, shad, 
etc. — and many other water animals, such as lobsters, crabs, shrimp, 
oysters, and clams. A distinction, however, is generally made 
between these two groups, those having bones being regarded prop- 
erly as fish and those partly or entirely encased in shells, as shell fish. 
It is according to this distinction that this class of foods is con- 
sidered in this Section. Because all the varieties of both fish and 
shell fish are in many respects similar, the term sea food is often 
applied to them, but, as a rule, this term is restricted to designate 
salt-water products as distinguished from fresh-water fish. 

2. Fish can usually be purchased at a lower price than meat, and 
for this reason possesses an economic advantage over it. Besides 
the price, the substitution of fish for meat makes for economy in a 
number of ways to which consideration is not usually given. These 
will become clearly evident when it is remembered that nearly all 
land animals that furnish meat live on many agricultural products 
that might be used for human food. Then, too, other foods fed to 
animals, although not actually human foods, require in their raising 
the use of soil that might otherwise be utilized for the raising of 
food for human beings. This is not true in the case of fish. They 
consume the vegetation that grows in lakes, streams, and the ocean, 
as well as various kinds of insects, small fish, etc., which cannot be 

ised as human food and which do not require the use of the soil, 

COF-rmaHTED aV 'MTERNATIONAL educational PUBLlSHtNCS COMPANY VLL PICHTS RESERVED 

U3 



2 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

In addition, much of the food that animals, which are warm-blooded, 
take into their bodies is required to maintain a constant temperature 
above that of their surroundings, so that not all of what they eat is 
used in building up the tissues- of their bodies. With fish, however, 
it is different. As they are cold-blooded and actually receive heat 
from their surroundings, they do not require food for bodily 
warmth. Practically all that they take into the body is built up into 
a supply of flesh that may be used as food for human beings. 

3. With fish, as with other foods, some varieties are sought more 
than others, the popularity of certain kinds depending on the indi- 
vidual taste or the preference of the people in a particular locality. 
Such popularity, however, is often a disadvantage to the purchaser, 
because a large demand for certain varieties has a tendency to cause 
a rise in price. The increased price does not indicate that the fish 
is of more value to the consumer than some other fish that may be 
cheaper because it is less popular, although quite as valuable from 
a food standpoint. The preference for particular kinds of fish and 
the persistent disregard of others that are edible is for the most 
part due to prejudice. In certain localities, one kind of fish may 
be extremely popular while in others the same fish may not be used 
for food at all. Such prejudice should be overcome, for, as a 
matter of fact, practically every fish taken from pure water is fit to 
eat, in the sense that it furnishes food and is not injurious to health. 

In addition, any edible fish should be eaten in the locality where 
it is caught. The transportation of this food is a rather difficult 
matter, and, besides, it adds to the cost. It is therefore an excellent 
plan to make use of the kind of fish that is most plentiful, as such 
practice will insure both better quality and a lower market price. 

4. As is well known, fish is an extremely perishable food. 
Therefore, when it is caught in quantities too great to be used at 
one time, it is preserved in various ways. The preservation methods 
that have proved to be the most satisfactory are canning, salting and 
drying, smoking, and preserving in various kinds of brine and pickle. 
As such methods are usually carried out in the locality where the 
iish is caught, many varieties of fish can be conveniently stored for 
long periods of time and so distributed as to meet the requirements 
of the consumer. This plan enables persons far removed from the 
source of supply to procure fish frequently. 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 



COMPOSITION AND FOOD VALUE OP FISH 



COMPOSITION OP PISH 

5. Comparison of Fish. With. Meat. — In general, the com- 
position of fish is similar to that of meat, for both of them are high- 
protein foods. However, some varieties of fish contain large 
quantities of fat and others contain very little of this substance, so the 
food value of the different kinds varies greatly. As in the case of 
meat, fish is lacking in carbohydrate. Because of the close similarity 
between these two foods, fish is a very desirable substitute for meat. 
In fact, fish is in some respects a better food than meat, but it can- 
not be used so continuously as meat without becoming monotonous ; 
that is to say, a person will grow tired of fish much more quickly 
than of most meats. The similarity between the composition of fish 
and that of meat has much to do with regulating the price of these 
protein foods, which, as has already been learned, are the highest 
priced foods on the market. 

6. Protein in Pish. — In fish, as well as in shell fish, a very 
large proportion of the food substances present is protein. This 
proportion varies with the quantity of water, bone, and refuse that 
the particular food contains, and with the physical structure of the 
food. In fresh fish, the percentage of this material varies from 
6 to 17 per cent. The structure of fish is very similar to that of 
meat, as the flesh is composed of tiny hollow fibers containing extrac- 
tives, in which are dissolved mineral salts and various other 
materials. The quantity of extractives found in these foods, how- 
ever, is less than that found in meat. Fish extracts of any kind, 
such as clam juice, oyster juice, etc., are similar in their composition 
to any of the extractives of meat, dififering only in the kind and 
proportions. In addition to the muscle fibers of fish, which are, of 
course, composed of protein, fish contains a small quantity of albu- 
min, just as meat does. It is the protein material in fish, as well as 
in shell fish, that is responsible for its very rapid decomposition. 

The application of heat has the same effect on the protein of fish 
as it has on that of meat, fowl, and other animal tissues. Conse- 
quently, the same principles of cookery apply to both the retention 
and the extraction of flavor. 

WI-C3-14 



4 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

7. Fat in Fish. — The percentage of fat in fish varies from less 
than 1 per cent, in some cases to a trifle more than 14 per cent, in 
others, but this high percentage is rare, as the average fish probably 
does not exceed from 3 to 6 or 7 per cent, of fat. This variation 
affects the total food value proportionately. The varieties of fish 
that contain the most fat deteriorate most rapidly and withstand 
transportation the least well, so that when these are secured in large 
quantities they are usually canned or preserved in some manner. 
Fish containing a large amount of fat, such as salmon, turbot, eel, 
herring, halibut, mackerel, mullet, butterfish, and lake trout, have a 
more moist quality than those which are without fat, such as cod. 
Therefore, as it is difficult to cook fish that is lacking in fat and 
keep it from becoming dry, a fat fish makes a more palatable food 
than a lean fish. The fat of fish is very strongly flavored ; conse- 
quently, any that cooks out of fish in its preparation is not suitable 
for use in the cooking of other foods. 

8. Carbohydrate in Fish. — Like meat, fish does not contain 
carbohydrate in any appreciable quantity. In fact, the small amount 
that is found in the tissue, and that compares to the glycogen found 
in animal tissues, is not present in sufficient quantities to merit con- 
sideration. 

9. Mineral Matter in Fish. — In fish, mineral matter is quite 
as prevalent as in meat. Through a notion that fish contains large 
proportions of phosphorus, and because this mineral is also present 
in the brain, the idea that fish is a brain food has become widespread. 
It has been determined, however, that this belief has no foundation. 



FOOD VALUE OP PISH 

10. Factors Determining Food Value. — The total food 
value of fish, as has been shown, is high or low, varying with the 
food substances it contains. Therefore, since, weight for weight, 
the food value of fat is much higher than that of protein, it follows 
that the fish containing the most fat has the highest food value. Fat 
and protein, as is well known, do not serve the same function in the 
body, but each has its purpose and is valuable and necessary in the 
diet. Some varieties of fish contain fat that is strong in flavor, and 
from these the fat should be removed before cooking, especially if 
the flavor is disagreeable. This procedure of course reduces the 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



total food value of the fish, but it should be done if it increases the 
palatability. 

11. Relative Nutritive Value of Fisli and Meat. — When 
fish and meat are compared, it will be observed that some kinds of 
fish have a higher food value than meat, particularly if the fish con- 
tains much fat and the meat is lean. Whfen the average of each of 

TABLE I 

COMPARISOIS OF COMPOSITION AND POOD VAL,UE OP PISH AND MEAT 





Composition 


Total Food 

Value 

per Pound 

Calories 


Food Value 
per Pound 


Edible Portion 


Protein 
Per Cent. 


Fat 
Per Cent. 


Due to 
Protein 
Calories 


Fish: 

Bass, black 

Bluefish 

Carp 

Catfish 

Halibut steak 

Lake trout 

Red snapper 

Salmon (canned) . 

Whitefish 

Meat: 

Beef, round, medi- 
um fat 


20.6 
19.4 
17.4 
14.4 
18.6 
17.8 
19.2 
21.8 
22.9 

20.3 
21.5 
19.3 
19.2 
16.6 


1.7 
1.2 
2.6 

20.6 
5.2 
1.0 
1.0 

12.1 
6.5 

13.6 
2.5 
16.3 
16.5 
30.1 


443 
401 
421 
1,102 
550 
363 
389 
888 
680 

895 
492 

1,016 
870 

1,455 


373 
352 
315 
262 
337 
323 
348 
396 
415 

368 


Chicken, broilers . . 
Fowl 


390 
350 


Lamb, leg 

Pork chops 


348 
301 



these foods is compared, however, meat will be found to have a 
higher food value than fish. To show how fish compares with meat 
and fowl, the composition and food value of several varieties of each 
food are given in Table I, which is taken from a United States 
government bulletin. 

12. A study of this table will show that on the whole the per- 
centage of protein, in the various kinds of fish is as much as that 



6 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 

in meat, while in a few instances, it is greater. This proves that so 
far as the quantity of protein is concerned, these two foods are 
equally valuable in their tissue-forming and tissue-building quali- 
ties. It will be seen also that the percentage of fat in fish varies 
greatly, some varieties containing more than meat, but most of them 
containing less. Furthermore, the total food value per pound, in 
calories, is for the most part greater in meat than in fish, whereas 
the food value per pound due to protein is equivalent in most cases, 
but higher in some of the fish than in the meat. 

13. It must also be remembered that the drying or preserving 
of fish does not in any way decrease its food value. In fact, pound 
for pound, dried fish, both smoked and salt, contains more nutritive 
value than fresh fish, because the water, which decreases the food 
value of fresh fish, is driven off in drying. However, when prepared 
for eating, dried fish in all probability has more food value than 
fresh fish, because water or moisture of some sort must be supplied 
in its preparation. 

14. The method of preparing dried or preserved fish, as well as 
fresh fish, has much to do with the food value obtained from it. 
Just as nutritive value is lost in the cooking of meat by certain 
methods, so it may be lost in the preparation of fish if the proper 
methods are not applied. To obtain as much food value from fish 
as possible, the various points that are involved in its cookery must 
be thoroughly understood. Certain facts concerning the buying of 
fish must also be kept in mind. For instance, in canned fish, almost 
all the bones, skin, and other inedible parts, except the tails, heads, 
and fins of very small fish, have been removed before packing, indi- 
cating that practically all the material purchased is edible. In the 
case of fresh fish, a large percentage of what is bought must be 
wasted in preparation and in eating, the percentage of waste varying 
from 5 to 45 per cent. 

15. Digestibility of Fish. — The food value of any food is 
an important item when its usefulness as a food is taken into account, 
but of equal importance is the manner in which the body uses the 
food; that is, whether it digests the food with ease or with diffi- 
culty. Therefore, when the value of fish as a food is to be deter- 
mined, its digestibility must receive definite consideration. As has 
already been explained, much depends on the cooking of the food 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 7 

in question. On the whole, fish is found to be more easily digested 
than meat, with the exception perhaps of a few kinds or certain 
cuts. That physicians recognize this characteristic is evidenced by 
the fact that fish is often used in the feeding of invalids or sick 
people when meat is not permitted. 

16. The ease with which fish is digested is influenced largely by 
the quantity of fat it contains, for this fat, acting in identically the 
same way as the fat of meat, has the effect of slowing the digestion 
that is carried on in the stomach. It follows, then, that with possibly 
one or two exceptions the kinds of fish most easily digested are 
those which are lean. 

17. In addition to the correct cooking of fish and the presence 
of fat, a factor that largely influences the digestibility of this food is 
the length of the fibers of the flesh. It will be remembered that the 
parts of an animal having long fibers are tougher and less easily 
digested than those having short fibers. This applies with equal 
force in the case of fish. Its truth is evident when it is known that 
cod, a lean fish, is digested with greater difficulty than some of the 
fat fish because of the length and toughness of its fibers. This, 
however, is comparative, and it must not be thought that fish on the 
whole is digested with difficulty. 

18. Another factor that influences the digestibility of fish is the 
salting of it. Whether fish is salted dry or in brine, the salt hardens 
the fibers and tissues. While the salt acts as a preservative in caus- 
ing this hardening, it, at the same time, makes the fish preserved in 
this manner a little more difficult to digest. This slight difference 
need scarcely be considered so far as the normal adult is concerned, 
but in case of children or persons whose digestion is not entirely 
normal its effect is likely to be felt. 



PURCHASE AND CARE OF FISH 

19. Purchase of Pish. — The housewife has much to do with 
the market price of fish and the varieties that are offered for sale, 
for these are governed by the demand created by her. The fisher- 
man's catch depends on weather conditions, the season, and other 
uncertain factors. If the kinds of fish he secures are not what the 
housewife demands, they either will not be sent to market or will go 



8 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 

begging on the market for want of purchasers. Such a state of 
affairs should not exist, and it would not if every housewife were 

TABLE II 
names, seasons, and uses op fresh fish 

Name of Fish Season Method of Cookery 

Bass, black All the year Fried, baked 

Bass, sea All the year Baked, broiled, fried 

Bass, striped All the year Baked, broiled, fried 

Bass, lake June 1 to January 1 Baked, broiled, fried 

Bluefish May 1 to November 1 Baked, broiled 

Butterfish October 1 to May 1 Fried, sauted 

Carp July 1 to November 3 Baked, broiled, fried 

Catfish All the year Fried, sauted 

„ ,. , . ,, , f Boiled, fried, sauted, 

Codfish Alltheyear j baked, broiled 

Eels An the year Fried, boiled, baked 

Flounder All the year Sauted, fried, baked 

Haddock All the year Steamed, boiled, fried 

Halibut All the year Boiled, fried, creamed 

Herring October 1 to May 1 Sauted, fried, broiled 

Kingfish May 1 to November 1 . . . . Boiled, steamed, baked 

Mackerel April 1 to October 1 . . . Pf'^' ''^°''^'^' ^'^^^ 

[ fried 

Perch, fresh water September 1 to June 1 . . . . Fried, broiled 

Porgies, salt water June IS to October 15. . . . Fried, sauted 

Red snapper October 1 to April 1 Boiled, steamed 

Salmon, Kennebec June 1 to October 1 Broiled, baked, boiled 

Salmon, Oregon October 1 to June 1 Broiled, baked, boiled 

Shad January 1 to June 1 Baked, broiled, fried 

Shad roe January 1 to June 1 Broiled, fried 

Sheepshead June 1 to September 15. . . Boiled, fried 

Smelts August 15 to April IS. . . . Fried, sauted 

Sole, English November 1 to May 1 Baked, broiled, fried 

Sunfish May 1 to December 1 . . . . Fried, sauted 

Trout, fresh water April 1 to September 1. .(^^''^f' ^'°'^^?' ^'''"^' 

[ boiled, sauted 

Weakfish, or sea trout May IS to October IS Baked, broiled 

Whitebait May 1 to April 1 Fried, sauted 

Whitefish, fresh water. . .November 1 to March 1 f^^''^'?,' f"^"^' sauted. 

[ broiled 

to buy the kind of fish that is plentiful in her home market. So 
that she may become familiar with the varieties that the market 
affords, she should carefully study Tables II and III, which give 



' ' yjune 1 to January 1 Fried, broiled, baked 

water ' 



(13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



the names, seasons, and uses of both fresh fish and salt and smoked 
fish. With the information given in these tables well in mind, she 
will be able not only to select the kind she wants, but to cooperate 
better with dealers. 

TABLE III 

NADIBS, SEASONS, AND USES OP SALT AND SMOKED PISH 



Name of Fish 



Method of Cookery 



Anchovies All the year. 



Season 
Salt Fish 

Served as a relish, stuffed 
with various highly 
seasoned mixtures, used 
as flavor for sauce 

Codfish, dried All the year Creamed, balls 

Herring, pickled All the year Sauted 

Mackerel All the year Broiled, fried, sauted 

Salmon, salt All the year Fried, broiled, boiled 

Smoked Fish 

, ... ' I October IS to April 1 Broiled, baked, creamed 

Halibut October 1 to April 1 Baked, broiled, fried 

Herring All the year P"^f . ^= ^ "''^^ ^'*°"* 

[ cookmg 

Mackerel October 1 to November 1 . . Baked, boiled, fried 

Smoked salmon All the year Baked, boiled, fried 

Shad October 1 to May 1 Baked, boiled, fried 

Sturgeon October 1 to May 1 Baked, boiled, fried 

Whitefish October 1 to May 1 Baked, boiled, fried 

20. Another point to be considered in the purchase of fish is the 
size. Some fish, such as halibut and salmon, are so large that they 




Fig. 1 



must usually be cut into slices or steaks to permit the housewife to 
purchase the quantity she requires for immediate use. Other fish are 
of such size that one is sufficient for a meal, and others are so small 



10 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§ia 



that several must be purchased to meet the requirements. An idea 
of the difference in the size of fish can be gained from Figs. 1 and 2. 
The larger fish in Fig. 1 is a medium-sized whitefish and the smaller 
one is a smelt. Fish about the size of smelts lend themselves readily 
to frying and sauteing, whereas the larger kinds, like whitefish, may 
be prepared to better advantage by baking either with or without 
suitable stuffing. The larger fish in Fig. 2 is a carp and the smaller 
one is a pike. Much use is made of pike, but carp has been more 
shunned than sought after. However, when carp is properly cooked, 
it is a very palatable food, and, besides, it possesses high food value. 

21. In the purchase of fish, the housewife, provided she is not 
obliged to have fish for a particular day, will do well also to get 
away from the one-day-a-week purchasing of fish ; that is, if she is 




Fig. 2 



not obliged to serve fish on Friday, she should endeavor to serve it 
on some other day. Even twice a week is not too often. If such a 
plan were followed out, fishermen would be able to market their 
catch when it is procured and the waste of fish or the necessity for 
keeping it until a particular day would be overcome. 

22. Another way in which the housewife can help herself in 
the selection of fish is to become familiar with all the varieties of 
edible fish caught in or near her community. When she has done 
this, it will be a splendid plan for her to give those with which she 
is unfamiliar a trial. She will be surprised at the many excellent 
varieties that are obtained in her locality and consequently come 
to her fresher than fish that has to be shipped long distances. 

23. Freshness of Fish.— In the purchase of fish, the house- 
wife should not permit herself to be influenced by any prejudice 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 11 

she may have as to the name or the appearance of the fish. How- 
ever, too much attention cannot be paid to its freshness. 

Several tests can be appHed to fish to determine whether or not it 
is fresh; therefore, when a housewife is in doubt, she should make 
an effort to apply them. Fish should not give off any offensive odor. 
The eyes should be bright and clear, not dull nor sunken. The gills 
should have a bright-red color, and there should be no blubber show- 
ing. The flesh should be so firm that no dent will be made when it is 
touched with the finger. Fish may also be tested for freshness by 
placing it in a pan of water; if it sinks, it may be known to be 
fresh, but if it floats it is not fit for use. 

24. Care of Fish in the Home.^ — If fish is purchased in 
good condition, and every effort should be made to see that it is, the 
responsibility of its care in the home until it is presented to the family 
as a cooked dish rests on the housewife. If, upon reaching the 
housewife, it has not been cleaned, it should be cleaned at once. In 
case it has been cleaned either by the fish dealer or the housewife 
and cannot be cooked at once, it should be looked over carefully, 
immediately washed in cold water, salted slightly inside and out, 
placed in a covered enamel or porcelain dish, and then put where it 
will keep as cold as possible. If a refrigerator is used, the fish 
should be put in the compartment from which odors cannot be 
carried to foods in the other compartments. In cold weather, an 
excellent plan is to put the fish out of doors instead of in the 
refrigerator, for there it will remain sufficiently cold without the use 
of ice. However, the best and safest way is to cook the fish at once, 
so that storing it for any length of time after its delivery will not be 
necessary. 

Salt and smoked fish do not, of course, require the same care as 
fresh fish. However, as many of these varieties are strong in flavor, 
it is well to weaken their flavor before cooking them by soaking them 
or, if possible, by parboiling them. 



PREPARATION OP PISH POR COOKING 
25. Cleaning Pish. — Fish is usually prepared for cooking at 
the market where it is purchased, but frequently a fish comes into 
the home just as it has been caught. In order to prepare such a fish 
properly for cooking, the housewife must understand how to clean 
it. The various steps in cleaning fish are illustrated in Figs. 3 to 6, 



12 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



The first step consists in removing the scales. To do this, place the 
fish on its side, as shown in Fig. 3, grasp it firmly by the tail, and 




Fig. 3 

then with the cutting edge of a knife, preferably a dull one, scrape 
off the scales by quick motions of the knife toward the head of the 
fish. When one side has been scraped clean, or scaled, as this opera- 
tion is called, turn the fish over and scale the other side. 

With the fish scaled, proceed to remove the entrails. As shown 




Fig. 4 



in Fig. 4, cut a slit in the belly from the head end to the vent, using 
a sharp knife. Run the opening up well toward the head, as Fig. 5 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



13 



shows, and then through the opening formed draw out the entrails 
with the fingers. 

If the head is to be removed, it should be cut off at this time. 




Fig: 5 



When a fish is to be baked or prepared in some othsr way in which 
the head may be retained, it is allowed to remain on, but it is kept 




fiG. 6 



more for an ornament than for any other reason. To remove the 
head, slip a sharp knife under the gills as far as possible, as Fig. 6 



14 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



(13 



ohows, and then cut it off in such a way as not to remove with it any 

of the body of the fish. 
Whether the head is removed or not, make sure that the cavity 

formed by taking out the entrails is perfectly clean. Then wash the 

fish with cold water and, 
if desired, cut off the 
fins and tail, although 
this is not usually done. 
The fish, which is now 
properly prepared, may 
be cooked at once or 
placed in the refrigera- 
tor until time for cook- 



4^ 


HI 


.^ 


r- 



Fig. 7 



ing. 

26. 

In the 



Boningr Fisli. 

preparation of 

some kinds of fish, it is often desired to bone the fish; that is, to 
remove the backbone and the ribs. Figs. 7 to 10 show the various 
steps in the process of boning. After the fish has been thoroughly 
cleaned, insert a sharp-pointed knife in the back where it is cut from 
the head, as shown in 
Fig. 7, and loosen the 
backbone at this place. 
Then, as in Fig. 8, slip 
the knife along the ribs 
away from the backbone 
on both sides. After 
getting the bone well 
loosened at the end, cut 
it from the flesh all the 
way down to the tail, as 
shown in Fig. 9. When 
thus separated from the 
flesh, the backbone and the ribs, which comprise practically all the 
bones in a fish, may be lifted out intact, as is shown in Fig. 10. 

27. Skinning: Fish. — Some kinds rf fish, especially those 
having no scales, such as flounder, catfish, and eels, are made more 
palatable by being skinned. To skin a fish, cut a narrow strip of the 
skin along the spine from the head to the tail, as shown in Fig. 11. 




Fig. 8 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



15 



At this opening, loosen the skin on one side where it is fastened to 
the bony part of the fish 
and then, as in Fig. 12, 
draw it off around to^ 
ward the belly, working 
carefully so as not to 
tear the flesh. Some- 
times it is a good plan to 
use a knife for this pur- 
pose, working the skin 
loose from the flesh with 
the knife and at the 
same time pulling the 
skin with the other hand. 




Fig. 9 



After removing the skin from one side. 




Fig. 10 

turn the fish and take off the skin from the other side in the same 

—^^^^ way. Care should be 

^ "^'^ ^^^1 taken to clean the fish 

^v i ^k ^^^^1 properly before attempt- 

ts frozen, it should first 
oe thawed in cold water. 




28. Filleting Fish. 

As many recipes require 
fish to be cut into fillets, 
that is, thick, flat slices 
^'°- '' from which the bone is 

removed, it is well for the housewife to understand just how to 



16 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



accomplish this part of the preparation. Figs. 13 to 15 show the 
filleting of a flounder. While this process varies somewhat in the 




Fig. 12 

different varieties of fish, the usual steps are the ones here outlined. 
After thoroughly cleaning the flounder and removing the skin, lay 
the fish out flat and cut the flesh down through the center from the 

head end to the tail, as 
shown in Fig. 13. Then, 
with a knife, work each 
half of the flesh loose 
from the bones, as in 
Fig. 14. With these two 
pieces removed, turn the 
fish over, cut the flesh 
down through the center, 
and separate it from the 
bones in the same man- 
ner as before. If a meat 
board is on hand, it is a 
good plan to place the 
fish on such a board be- 
fore removing the flesh. At the end of the filleting process, the 
flounder should appear as shown in Fig. 15, the long, narrow strips 
on the right being the flesh and that remaining on the board being 
the bones intact. The strips thus produced may be cut into pieces 
of any preferred size. 




Fig. 13 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



17 



RECIPES FOR FISH AND FISH ACCOMPANIMENTS 



METHODS OP COOKING FISH 

29. As Tables II and III show, practically all methods of cook- 
ery are applicable in the cooking of fish. For instance, fish may be 
boiled, steamed, baked, fried, broiled, sauted, and, in addition, 
used for various kinds of bisques, chowders, and numerous other 
made dishes. The eflfect 
of these diflferent meth- 
ods is exactly the same 
on fish as on meat, 
since the two foods are 
the same in general con- 
struction. The cookery 
method to select depends 
largely on the size, kind, 
quality, and flavor of 
the fish. Just as an old 
chicken with well-devel- 
oped muscles is not suit- 
able for broiling, so a very large fish should not be broiled unless it 
can be cut into slices, steaks, or thin pieces. Such a fish is usually 




Fig. 14 




Fig. 15 

either stuffed and baked or baked without stufifing, but when it is 
cut into slices, the slices may be sauted, fried, broiled, or steamed. 
Some varieties of fish are more or less tasteless. These should 
be prepared by a cookery method that will improve their flavor, or 
if the cooking fails to add ^^avor, a highly seasoned or highly 



18 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

flavored sauce should be served with them. The acid of vinegar 
or lemon seems to assist in bringing out the flavor of fish, so when 
a sauce is not used, a slice of lemon is often served with the fish. 



RECIPES FOR FISH SAUCES AND STUFFINGS 

30. As many of the recipes for fish call for sauce and stuffing, 
recipes for these accompaniments are taken up before the methods 
of cooking fish are considered. This plan will make it possible for 
the beginner to become thoroughly familiar with these accompani- 
ments and thus be better prepared to carry out the recipes for cook- 
ing fish. 

31. Sauces for Fish. — Sauces are generally served with fish 
to improve their flavor and increase their nutritive value. Some 
kinds of fish, such as salmon, shad, butterfish, Spanish mackerel, 
etc., contain more than 6 per cent, of fat, but as many of the fish 
that are used for food contain less than this, they are somewhat dry 
and are improved considerably by the addition of a well-seasoned 
and highly flavored sauce. Then, too, some fish contain very few 
extractives, which, when present, as has been learned, are the source 
of flavor in food. As some of the methods of cooking, boiling in 
particular, dissolve the few extractives that fish contain and cause 
the loss of much of the nutritive material, it becomes almost neces- 
sary to serve a sauce with fish so prepared, if a tasty dish is to be the 
result. 

32. The sauces that may be used with fish are numerous, and 
the one to select depends somewhat on the cookery method employed 
and the preference of those to whom the fish is served. Among the 
recipes that follow will be found sauces suitable for any method 
that may be used in the preparation of fish. A little experience with 
them will enable the housewife to determine the ones that are most 
satisfactory as to both flavor and nutritive value for the different 
varieties of fish she uses and the methods of cookery she employs. 

Lemon Cream Sauce 

2 Tb. butter Salt and pepper 

2 Tb. flour Juice of 1 lemon or 1 Tb. 

1 c. thin cream vinegar 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and continue 
stirring until the two are well mixed. Add to this the thin cream and 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 19 

stir until the mixture is thick and boils. Season with salt, pepper, 
and the juice of the lemon or the vinegar. 

Spanish Sauce 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

1 slice of onion 1 c. milk 

2 Tb. flour i c. tomato puree 

1 tsp. salt i c. chopped pimiento 

Brown the butter with the onion, add the flour, salt, and pepper, 
and stir until well blended. Add the milk and allow the mixture to 
cook until it thickens. To this add the tomato and pimiento. Heat 
thoroughly and serve. 

Nut Sauce 

1 Tb. butter i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. flour i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. peanut butter 1 c. meat stock 

Melt the butter and add the flour and peanut butter. When they 
are well mixed, allow them to brown slightly. Add the salt and 
pepper to this mixture and pour into it the meat stock. Bring to 
the boiling point and serve. 

Horseradish Sauce 

i c. cream i tsp. salt 

i c. boiled salad dressing i tsp. paprika 

2 Tb. grated horseradish i tsp. mustard 

Whip the cream until stiff; then add the salad dressing, horse- 
radish, salt, paprika, and mustard. When well blended, the sauce 
is ready to serve. 

Egg Sauce 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. flour 2 Tb. vinegar 

f c. milk 1 egg 

i tsp. salt 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir until well blended. Add 
the milk, salt, and pepper, and cook until the mixture thickens. To 
this add the vinegar, the egg chopped fine, and the chopped parsley. 
Heat thoroughly and serve. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 c. tomato puree 2 Tb. butter 

1 small onion, sliced 2 Tb. flour 
1 bay leaf 1 tsp. salt 

6 cloves -J tsp. pepper 

Strain stewed tomato to make the puree. Put this over the fire 
in a saucepan with the sliced onion, the bay leaf, and the cloves. 

WI-C3-I5 



20 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 

Cook slowly for about 10 minutes. Strain to remove the onion, bay 
leaf, and cloves. Melt the butter, add the flour, salt, and pepper, 
and into this pour the hot tomato. Cook until it thickens and serve. 

Mushroom Sauce 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

1 slice of carrot 2 Tb. flour 

1 slice of onion 1 c. meat stock 

Sprig of parsley i c. mushrooms 

^ tsp. salt 2 tsp. lemon juice 

Put the butter in a frying pan with the carrot, onion, parsley, salt, 
and pepper, and cook together until brown. Remove the onion, 
carrot, and parsley. Stir in the flour, brown it slightly, and then add 
the meat stock. Cook together until thickened. Just before remov- 
ing from the fire, add the mushrooms, chopped into fine pieces, and 
the lemon juice. Allow it to heat thoroughly and then serve. 
Drawn-Butter Sauce 

i c. butter i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. flour 14 c. hot water 

^ tsp. salt 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Melt the butter, and add the flour, salt, and pepper. Pour into 
this the hot water, and cook until the mixture thickens. Slice the 
eggs into J-inch slices and add these to the sauce just before remov- 
ing from the stove. 

33. Stuffing for Fish. — As has been mentioned, fish that is 
to be baked is often stuffed before it is put into the oven. The 
stuffing not only helps to preserve the shape of the fish, but also 
provides a means of extending the flavor of the fish to a starchy 
food, for bread or cracker crumbs are used in the preparation of 
most stuffings. Three recipes for fish stuffing are here given, the 
first being made of bread crumbs and having hot water for the 
liquid, the second of cracker crutnbs and having milk for the liquid, 
and the third of bread crumbs and having stewed tomato for the 

liquid. 

Fish Stuffing No. 1 

Rebutter 1 tsp. onion juice 

I c. hot water 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

i tsp. salt 2 c. fine bread crumbs 
I tsp. pepper 

Melt the butter in the hot water, add the salt, pepper, onion juice, 

and parsley, and pour over the crumbs. Mix thoroughly and use 

to stuff the fish. 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



21 



Fish Stuffing No. 2 

i c. milk i c. melted butter 

2 c. cracker crumbs 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

i tsp. salt 1 egg 
i tsp. pepper 

Warm the milk and add it to the crumbs, together with the salt, 
pepper, melted butter, and parsley. To this mixture, add the beaten 
egg. When well mixed, use as stuffing for fish. 

Fish Stuffing No. 3 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

1 Tb. finely chopped onion 1 Tb. chopped sour pickles 

1 Tb. chopped parsley ^ c. stewed tomato 

^ tsp. salt 2 c. stale bread crumbs 

Melt the butter and add the onion, parsley, salt, pepper, pickles, 
and tomato. Pour this mixture over the crumbs, mix all thoroughly, 
and use to stuflf the fish. If the dressing seems to require more liquid 
than the stewed tomato, add a little water. 



RECIPES FOR FRESH PISH 

34. Boiled. Fish.. — Boiling extracts flavor and, to some extent, 
nutriment from the food to which this cookery method is applied. 
Therefore, unless the fish to be cooked is one that has a very strong 
flavor and that will be improved by the loss of flavor, it should not 
be boiled. Much care should be 
exercised in boiling fish, because 
the meat is usually so tender that 
it is likely to boil to pieces or to 
fall apart. 

35. A utensil in which fish 
can be boiled or steamed very 
satisfactorily is shown in Fig. 16. 
This fish boiler, as it is called, is a long, narrow, deep pan with a 
cover and a rack on which the fish is placed. Attached to each end 
of the rack is an upright strip, or handle, that permits the rack con- 
taining the fish to be lifted out of the pan and the fish thus removed 
without breaking. To assist further in holding the fish together 
while it is cooking, a piece of gauze or cheesecloth may be v/rapped 
around the fish before it is put into the pan. 




Fig. 16 



22 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 

36. When a fish is to be boiled, clean it and, if desired, remove 
the head. Pour sufficient boiling water to cover the fish well into 
the vessel in which it is to be cooked, and add salt in the proportion 
of 1 teaspoonful to each quart of water. Tie the fish in a strip of 
cheesecloth or gauze if necessary, and lower it into the vessel of 
slowly boiling water. Allow the fish to boil until it may be easily 
pierced with a fork ; then take it out of the water and remove the 
cloth, provided one is used. Serve with a well-seasoned sauce, such 
as lemon cream, horseradish, etc. 

37. Boiled Cod. — A fish that lends itself well to boiling is 
fresh cod. In fact, codfish prepared according to this method and 
served with a sauce makes a very appetizing dish. 

Scale, clean, and skin a fresh cod and wrap it in a single layer of 
gauze or cheesecloth. Place it in a kettle or a pan of freshly boiling 
water to which has been added 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart 
of water. Boil until the fish may be easily pierced with a fork, take 
from the water, and remove the gauze or cheesecloth carefully so 
as to keep the fish intact. Serve with sauce and slices of lemon. 

38. Steamed Fish.. — The preparation of fish by steaming is 
practically the same as that by boiling, and produces a dish similar 
to boiled fish. The only difference is that steamed fish is suspended 
over the water and is cooked by the steam that rises instead of 
being cooked directly in the water. Because the fish is not sur- 
rounded by water, it does not lose its nutriment and flavor so readily 
as does boiled fish. 

If fish is to be cooked by steaming, first clean it thoroughly. 
Wrap in a strip of gauze or cheesecloth and place in a steamer. 
Steam until tender, and then remove the cloth and place the fish on 
a platter. As steaming does not add flavor, it is usually necessary 
to supply flavor to fish cooked in this way by adding a sauce of some 
kind. 

39. Broiled Fish, — The best way in which to cook small fish, 
thin strips of fish, or even good-sized fish that are comparatively 
thin when they are split open is to broil them. Since in this method 
of cooking the flavor is entirely retained, it is especially desirable 
for any fish of delicate flavor. 

To broil fish, sear them quickly over a very hot fire and then cook 
them more slowly until they are done, turning frequently to prevent 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 23 

burning. As most fish, and particularly the small ones used for 
broiling, contain almost no fat, it is necessary to supply fat for 
successful broiling and improvement of flavor. It is difficult to add 
fat to the fish while it is broiling, so, as a rule, the fat is spread over 
the surface of the fish after it has been removed from the broiler. 
The fat may consist of broiled strips of bacon or salt pork, or it may 
be merely melted butter or other fat. 

40. Broiled Scrod With Potato Border. — Young cod that 
is split down the back and that has had the backbone removed with 
the exception of a small portion near the tail is known as scrod. 
Such fish is nearly always broiled. It may be served plain, but it is 
much more attractive when potatoes are combined with it in the 
form of an artistic border. 

To prepare this dish, broil the scrod according to the directions 
given in Art. 39. Then place it on a hot platter and spread butter 
over it. Boil the desired number of potatoes until they are tender, 
and then force them through a ricer or mash them until they are 
perfectly fine. Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and add suffi- 
cient milk to make a paste that is a trifle stiffer than for mashed 
potatoes. If desired, raw eggs may also be beaten into the potatoes to 
serve as a part of the moisture. Fill a pastry bag with the potatoes 
thus prepared and press them through a rosette tube in any desired 
design on the platter around the fish. Bake in a hot oven until the 
potatoes are thoroughly heated and are browned slightly on the top. 

41. Broiled Fresh. Mackerel. — Probably no fish lends itself 
better to broiling than fresh mackerel, as the flesh of this fish is 
tender and contains sufficient fat to have a good flavor. To improve 
the flavor, however, strips of bacon are usually placed over the fish 
and allowed to broil with it. 

Clean and skin a fresh mackerel. Place the fish thus prepared in 
a broiler, and broil first on one side and then on the other. When 
seared all over, place strips of bacon over the fish and continue to 
broil until it is done. Remove from the broiler, season with salt and 
pepper, and serve. 

42. Broiled Shad Roe. — The mass of eggs found in shad, as 
shown in Fig. 17, is known as the roe of shad. Roe may be pur- 
chased separately, when it is found in the markets from January 1 to 
June 1, or it may be procured from the fish itself. It makes a 



24 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



delicious dish when broiled, especially when it is rolled in fat and 
bread crumbs. 

Wash the roe that is to be used and dry it carefully between 
towels. Roll it in bacon fat or melted butter and then in fine crumbs. 




Fig. 17 



Place in a broiler, broil until completely done on one side, turn and 
then broil until entirely cooked on the other side. Remove from the 
broiler and pour melted butter over each piece. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and serve hot. 



43. Baked Fish. — Good-sized fish, that is, fish weighing 4 or 
5 pounds, are usually baked. When prepared by this method, fish 
are very satisfactory if they are spread out on a pan, flesh side up, 

and baked in a very hot 
oven with sufficient fat 
to flavor them well. A 
fish of large size, how- 
ever, is especially deli- 
cious if its cavity is filled 
with a stuffing before it 
is baked. 

When a fish is to be 

stuffed, any desired 

stuffing is prepared and 

^"=•18 then filled into the fish 

in the manner shown in Fig. 18. With the cavity well filled, the 

edges of the fish are drawn together over the stuffing and sewed 

with a coarse needle and thread, as Fig. 19 shows. 

Whether the fish is stuffed or not, the same principles apply in its 
baking as apply in the roasting of meat ; that is, the heat of a quick, 




§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



hot oven sears the flesh, keeps in the juices, and prevents the loss of 
flavor, while that of a slow oven causes the loss of much of the flavor 
and moisture and pro- 
duces a less tender dish. 

44. Often, in the 
baking of fish, it is 
necessary to add fat. 
This may be done by 
putting fat of some kind 
into the pan with the 
fish, by spreading strips 
of bacon over the fish, 
or by larding it. In the 
dry varieties of fish, 
larding, which is illus- 
trated in Fig. 20, proves very satisfactory, for it supplies the sub- 
stance in which the fish is most lacking. As will be observed, larding 
is done by inserting strips of bacon or salt pork that are about 3 
inches long and ^ inch thick into gashes cut into the sides of the fish. 

45. Baked Haddock. — As haddock is a good-sized fish, it is 
an especially suitable one for baking. However, it is a dry fish, so 




Fig. 19 




Fig. 20 

fat should be added to it to improve its flavor. Any of the methods 
suggested in Art. 44 may be used to supply the fat that this fish 
needs. 

When haddock is to be baked, select a 4- or 5-pound fish, clean it 
thoroughly, boning it if desired, and sprinkle it inside and out with 



26 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

salt. Fill the cavity with any desired stuffing and sew up. Place in 
a dripping pan, and add some bacon fat or a piece of salt pork, or 
place several slices of bacon around it. Bake in a hot oven for about 
1 hour. After it has been in the oven for about 15 minutes, baste 
with the fat that will be found in the bottom of the pan and continue 
to baste every 10 minutes until the fish is done. Remove from the 
pan to a platter, garnish with parsley and slices of broiled bacon, and 
serve with any desired sauce. 

46. Baked. Halibut. — Because of its size, halibut is cut into 
slices and sold in the form of steaks. It is probably one of the most 
economical varieties of fish to buy, for very little bone is contained 
in a slice and the money that the housewife expends goes for almost 
solid meat. Halibut slices are often sauted, but they make a deli- 
cious dish when baked with tomatoes and flavored with onion, 
lemon, and bay leaf, as described in the accompanying recipe. 

Baked Halibut 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. tomatoes i tsp. pepper 

Few slices onion 2 thin slices bacon 

1 bay leaf 1 Tb. flour 

1 tsp. salt 2 lb. halibut steak 

Heat the tomatoes, onion, and bay leaf in water. Add the salt 
and pepper and cook for a few minutes. Cut the bacon into small 
squares, try it out in a pan, and into this fat stir the flour. Pour 
this into the hot mixture, remove the bay leaf, and cook until the 
mixture thickens. Put the steaks into a baking dish, pour the sauce 
over them, and bake in a slow oven for about 45 minutes. Remove 
with the sauce to a hot platter and serve. 

47. Baked. Fillets of Wliitefish.— When whitefish of 
medium size can be secured, it is very often stuffed and baked whole, 
but variety can be had by cutting it into fillets before baking it. 
Besides producing a delicious dish, this method of preparation elimi- 
nates carving at the table, for the pieces can be cut the desired size 
for serving. 

Prepare fillets of whitefish according to the directions for filleting 
fish in Art. 28. Sprinkle each one with salt and pepper, and dip it 
first into beaten egg and then into bread crumbs. Brown some 
butter in a pan, place the fish into it, and set the pan in a hot oven. 
Bake until the fillets are a light brown, or about 30 minutes. Remove 
to a hot dish, garnish with parsley and serve with any desired sauce. 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



27 



48. Fillet of Flounder. — In appearance, flounder is not so 
attractive as many other fish, but it is a source of excellent flesh and 



H 






;^ w 







Fig. 21 

is therefore much used. A very appetizing way in which to prepare 
flounder is to fillet it and prepare it according to the accompanying 
recipe, when it will appear as in Fig. 2L 

Secure a flounder and fillet it in the manner explained in Art. 28. 
Cut each fillet into halves, making eight pieces from one flounder. 
Cut small strips of salt pork or bacon, roll the pieces of flounder 
around these, and fasten with a toothpick. Place in a baking dish 
with a small quantity of water, and bake in a hot oven until a good 
brown. Serve hot. 

49. Planked Fish. — Like planked steak, planked fish, which 
is illustrated in Fig. 22, is a dish that appeals to the eye and pleases 




Fig. 22 



the taste. The fish is baked on the plank and then surrounded with 
a border of potatoes, the fish and potatoes making an excellent food. 



28 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

To prepare planked fish, thoroughly clean and bone a medium- 
size whitefish, shad, haddock, or any desired fish. Grease a plank 
and place the fish on it. Lay some strips of bacon across the top 
of the fish, place in a hot oven, and bake for about 30 minutes or a 
little longer if necessary. Boil potatoes and prepare them for piping 
by mashing them, using 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, and one egg to each 2 cupfuls of potato. Then, with a rosette 
pastry tube, pipe a border of potatoes around the edge of the plank, 
so that it will appear as in Fig. 22. Likewise, pipe rosettes of pota- 
toes on the strips of bacon placed on top of the fish. Then replace 
the plank with the fish and potatoes in the oven, and bake until the 
potatoes are brown. Garnish with parsley and serve. 

50. Fried Fish. — Very small fish or slices of larger fish are 
often fried in deep fat. When they are prepared in this way, they 
are first dipped into beaten egg and then into crumbs or corn meal to 
form a coating that will cling to their surface. Coated with such 
a material, they are fried in deep fat until the surface is nicely 
browned. After being removed from the fat, they should be drained 
well before serving. 

51. Fried Perch. — When fried in deep fat, perch is found to 
be very appetizing. To prepare it in this way, secure a perch and 
scale and clean it. Cut it crosswise into 2-inch strips, roll each piece 
in flour, and fry in deep fat until nicely browned. Serve hot with 
lemon or with a sauce of some kind. 

52. Fried Eel. — If an appetizing way to cook eel is desired, 
it will be found advisable to fry it in deep fat. When it is to be 
cooked in this way, skin and clean the eel and cut it into thick slices. 
Pour some vinegar over the slices, sprinkle them with salt and 
pepper, and allow them to stand for several hours. Remove the 
pieces from the vinegar, dip each one into slightly beaten egg and 
then into flour, and fry in deep fat until well browned. Serve plain 
or with a sauce. 

53. Sauted Fish. — ^Without doubt, the most popular way to 
prepare fish is to saute them. This method may be applied to prac- 
tically the same kinds of fish that are fried or broiled, and it is 
especially desirable for the more tasteless varieties. It consists in 
browning the fish well in a small quantity of fat, first on one side 
and then on the other. If fat of good flavor is used, such as bacon 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



29 



or ham fat, the flavor of the fish will be very rnm^h improved. 
Before sauteing, the fish or pieces of fish are often dipped into 
slightly beaten egg and then rolled in flour, very fine cracker crumbs, 
or corn meal, or the egg is omitted and they are merely covered with 
the dry, starchy material. The effect of this method of cooking is 
very similar to that of deep-fat frying, except that the outside tissues 
are apt to become very hard from the application of the hot fat 
because of the coating that is generally used. Since most fish breaks 
very easily, it is necessary that it be handled carefully in this method 
in order that the pieces may be kept whole. 

54. S.iuted Smelts. — To be most satisfactory, smelts are 
generally sauted, as shown in Fig. 23. Fish of this kind are pre- 
pared for cooking by cutting off the heads and removing the entrails 
through the opening thus made ; or, if it is desired to leave the heads 




Fig. 23 

on, the entrails may be removed through the gill or a small slit cut 
below the mouth. At any rate, these fish are not cut open as are 
most other fish. 

With the fish thus prepared, roll them in fine cracker crumbs and 
saute them in melted butter until they are nicely browned. Serve 
with slices of lemon. 

55. Sauted Halibut Steak. — Slices of halibut, when firm in 
texture and cut about f inch thick, lend themselves very well to 
sauteing. Secure the required number of such slices and sprinkle 
each with salt and pepper. Then spread melted butter over each 
steak, and roll it in fine crumbs. Place fat in a frying pan, allow 
it to become hot, and saute the halibut in this until well browned. 

56. Sauted Pickerel. — A variety of fresh-water fish that finds 
favor with most persons is pickerel. When this fish is to be sauted, 



30 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 

scale and clean it and cut it crosswise into 2-inch strips. Then roll 
each piece in flour, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, and saute the 
slices in hot fat. When one side is sufficiently brown, turn and 
brown on the other side. 

57. Stewed Fish. — Like boiling, stewing extracts flavor and 
nutriment from fish. The process differs, however, in that the fish 
is cooked gently by simmering. This cookery method is employed 
for fish that is inclined to be tough. Usually, vegetables, such as 
carrots and onions, are cooked with the fish in order to impart flavor. 
To prevent the fish from falling apart, it may be wrapped in cheese- 
cloth or gauze. 

58. Ste-*ved. Fresh Herring. — When fresh herring can be 
obtained, it can be made into a delicious dish by stewing it with 
onions, parsley, and carrots. In this method of preparation, the 
herring should not be permitted to stew rapidly ; it will become more 
tender if it simmers gently. As herring are rather small fish, weigh- 
ing only about J pound, it will usually be necessary to obtain more 
than one for a meal. 

Clean the required number of fresh herring, place them in a sauce- 
pan, and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Brown some slices of 
onion in butter, and add the same number of slices of carrots and a 
generous quantity of parsley. Add enough boiling water to these 
vegetables to cover them and the fish, and pour both over the fish. 
Place all on the fire and simmer gently until the fish is tender. 
Remove the fish from the water and serve. The vegetables are used 
merely to add flavor, and they will have practically boiled away by 
the time the fish is cooked. 

59. Stewed Eel. — Eel is delicious when stewed. When allowed 
to simmer slowly with several slices of onion and a little parsley, it 
becomes both tasty and tender. 

Skin and clean the eel that is to be stewed, remove all the fat, and 
cut into pieces about 2 inches long. Season well with salt and pepper 
and place in a saucepan with several slices of onion, 1 tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Add enough 
cold water to cover well, and allow the eel to simmer gently until it is 
tender enough to be pierced with a fork. Remove from the water 
and serve hot. 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 31 



RBCIPBS FOR SAIiT AND SMOKED FISH 

60. Place of Salt and Smoked Fish in tlie Diet. — In 

regions where fresh fish cannot be obtained or in seasons when they 
are scarce everywhere, the housewife will do well to use salt and 
smoked fish. These varieties of fish not only will give her a chance 
to vary the diet, but will enable her to provide at a more economical 
price, food that, pound for pound, contains more nutriment than the 
same fish when fresh. While some of the varieties of smoked and 
salt fish may not be obtainable in all communities, the housewife will 
do much toward bringing the supply to her community by requesting 
them from the dealer. When a dealer knows that there is a demand 
for certain kinds, he will make an eflfort to secure the varieties 
wanted. 

61. Freshening Salt and Smoked Fish. — The cooking of 
salt and smoked fish is not a difficult matter, but it always involves 
the freshening of the fish before any cooking method can be applied. 
This consists in placing the fish in a large quantity of water and 
allowing it to stand until enough of the salt has been extracted to 
suit the taste. Some kinds of fish are so salty that they require 
considerable soaking, whereas others require only a little freshening. 
However, it is usually advisable to change the water several times. 
If it is desired to hasten the extraction of the salt, the fish should 
be raised above the bottom of the vessel by means of a wire rack 
or several clean sticks. In the case of very thick fish, several gashes 
may be cut into the flesh to permit the salt to pass out more readily. 

62. Creamed Codfish. — Since codfish is a rather dry fish, 
containing little fat, it is usually combined with some other food to 
make it more appetizing. In the case of creamed codfish, the cream 
sauce supplies the food substances in which the fish is lacking and at 
the same time provides a very palatable dish. When codfish is pre- 
pared in this way, boiled potatoes are usually served with it. 

To make creamed codfish, freshen the required amount of codfish 
by pouring lukewarm water over it. Shred the fish by breaking it 
into small pieces with the fingers. Pour oflE the water, add fresh 
warm water, and allow the fish to stand until it is not too salty. 
When it is sufficiently freshened, drain off all the water. Melt a 
little butter in a frying pan, add the fish, and saute until slightly 



32 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

browned. Make a medium white sauce and pour it over the codfish. 
Serve hot with boiled potatoes. 

63. Codfisli Balls. — Another excellent way in which to serve 
codfish is to combine it with mashed potatoes, make these into balls, 
and fry them in deep fat. These give variety to meals and also 
aflford an opportunity to serve a nutritious food. 

Freshen the codfish as explained in Art. 61, and then mince it 
very fine. Add an equal amount of freshly cooked hot potato that 
has been put through a potato ricer or mashed fine. Mix thoroughly 
and, if necessary, season with salt and pepper. Shape into balls and 
fry in deep fat. Drain well and serve hot. 

64. Sauted Salt Mackerel. — ^When an extremely tasty dish 
that will afford a change from the usual daily routine of meals is 
desired, sauted salt mackerel will be found very satisfactory. 

Freshen salt mackerel that is to be sauted by putting it into a 
saucepan and covering it with cold water. Place this over the fire, 
and allow the water to heat to almost the boiling point. Pour off 
the water, and saute the fish in butter or other fat until nicely 
browned. If desired, pour a small amount of thin cream over the 
mackerel just before removing it from the pan, allow this to heat, 
and serve it as a sauce with the mackerel. 

65. Baked Finnan Haddie. — ^\Vhen haddock is cured by 
smoking, it is known as finnan haddie. As fish of this kind has con- 
siderable thick flesh, it is very good for baking. Other methods of 
cookery may, of course, be applied to it, but none is more satisfac- 
tory than baking. 

To bake a finnan haddie, wash it in warm water and put it to soak 
in fresh warm water. After it has soaked for i hour, allow it to 
come gradually to nearly the boiling point and then pour off the 
water. Place the fish in a baking pan, add a piece of butter, sprinkle 
with pepper, and pour a little water over it. Bake in a hot oven 
until it is nicely browned. Serve hot. 

66. Creamed Finnan Haddie. — The flavor of finnan haddie 
is such that this fish becomes very appetizing when prepared with a 
cream sauce. If, after combining the sauce with the fish, the fish is 
baked in the oven, an especially palatable dish is the result. 

To prepare creamed finnan haddie, freshen the fish and shred it into 
small pieces. Then measure the fish, put it into a baking dish, and 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 33 

pour an equal amount of white sauce over it. Sprinkle generously 
with crumbs and bake in a hot oven until the crumbs are browned. 
Serve hot. 

67. Boiled Salmon. — ^When smoked salmon can be secured, 
it makes a splendid fish for boiling. If it is cooked until tender and 
then served with a well-seasoned sauce, it will find favor with most 
persons. 

Freshen smoked salmon in warm water as much as seems neces- 
sary, remembering that the cooking to which it will be subjected will 
remove a large amount of the superfluous salt. Cover the salmon 
with hot water, and simmer slowly until it becomes tender. Remove 
from the water, pour a little melted butter over it, and serve with 
any desired sauce. 

RECIPES FOR, CANNED PISH 

68. Canned Fish, in tlie Diet. — As a rule, canned fish is a 
comparatively cheap food and there is no reason why the economical 
housewife should not make frequent use of the various kinds. It 
should be bought, however, from a reputable firm, in order that the 
greatest value may be obtained for the money spent. In addition, it 
should be used as soon as possible after the can has been opened ; 
if all of it cannot be utilized at one time, it should be placed in a 
covered receptacle — not a metal one — and kept cold to prevent it 
from spoiling. Often canned fish can be served without any further 
preparation than removing it from the can. However, as some 
varieties, particularly salmon and tuna fish, are much used in the 
preparation of both cold and cooked dishes, several recipes are here 
given for these varieties. 

69. Creamed Tuna Fish. — Combining tuna fish with a cream 
sauce and serving it over toast makes a dish that is both delicate and 
palatable — one that will prove very satisfactory when something to 
take the place of meat in a light meal is desired. 

Creamed Tuna Fish 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 Tb. butter i tsp. paprika 

3 Tb. flour l| c. hot milk 

i' tsp. salt li c. tuna fish 

I tsp. pepper 1 sgg 

Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the flour, salt, pepper, and 
paprika. Stir well, pour in the milk, and when this has thickened 



34 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



add the tuna fish. Allow this to heat thoroughly in the sauce. Just 
before serving, add the slightly beaten egg and cook until this has 
thickened. Pour over toast and serve. 

70. Salmon Moldw — A change from the usual way of serving 
salmon can be had by making a salmon mold such as is illustrated in 
Fig. 24. Besides being a delicious dish and providing variety in the 
diet, salmon mold is very attractive. 

Salmon Mold 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. salmon i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. vinegar 1 Tb. gelatine 

i tsp. salt 1| c. boiling water 

Remove all skin and bones from the salmon when it is taken from 
the can, and mince it thoroughly with a fork. Add the vinegar, salt, 




Fig. 24 

and pepper. Prepare the gelatine by dissolving it in the boiling 
water. Add the seasoned salmon to the prepared gelatine. \\'ith 
cold water, wet a ring-shaped mold having an open space in the 
center. Pour the salmon-and-gelatine miiiture into this mold, and 
allow it to stand until it solidifies. Arrange a bed of lettuce leaves 
on a chop plate, turn the mold out on this, and fill the center with 
dressing. Serve at once. A very desirable dressing for this purpose 
is made as follows : 

Dressing for Salmon Mold 

1 c. cream 2 Tb. sugar 

2 Tb. vinegar 1 c. finely chopped cucumber 
^ tsp. salt 

Whip the cream until it is stiff, and add the vinegar, salt, and 
sugar. Fold into this the finely chopped cucumber. 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 35 

71. Salmon Patties. — Delicious patties can be made from 
salmon by combining it with bread crumbs and using a thick white 
sauce to hold the ingredients together. These may be either sauted 
in shallow fat or fried in deep fat. 

Salmon Patties 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

2 c. finely minced salmon -J tsp. salt 

1 c. fresh bread crumbs i tsp. pepper 

1 c. thick white sauce Dry bread crumbs 

With the salmon, mix the fresh bread crumbs and the white sauce. 
Season with salt and pepper. Shape into round patties, roll in the 
dry bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat or saute in shallow fat. Serve 
hot with or without sauce. 

72. Creamed Salmon With Rice. — A creamed protein dish 
is always more satisfactory if it is served on some other food, par- 
ticularly one high in carbohydrate. When this is done, a better 
balanced dish is the result. Creamed salmon and rice make a very 
nutritious and appetizing combination. 

Creamed Salmon With Rice 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. salmon Steamed rice 

1 c. medium white sauce 
Break the salmon into moderately small pieces and carefully fold 
these into the hot white sauce. Serve this on a mound of hot 
steamed rice. 



RECIPB3S FOR liEFT-OVBR PISH 

73. So as not to waste any food material, it is necessary that 
all left-over fish be utilized in some way. This is not so simple a 
matter as in the case of meat, because fish is one of the foods that 
are not popular as a left-over dish. Still fish left-overs can be used 
if a little thought is given to the matter. Of course, it is a wise plan 
to prepare only the quantity of fish that can be consumed at the meal 
for which it is cooked, but should any remain it should not be 
thrown away, for some use can be made of it. A point to remember, 
however, is that fish is not satisfactory in soup of any kind except a 
fish soup ; therefore, bits of left-over fish may be added to only such 
soups as clam chowder or other fish chowder. 

Whether the fish has been boiled, steamed, baked, fried, sauted, 
or prepared in any other way, it may always be made into croquettes. 
When used for this purpose, all the bones should be carefully 

WI— C3— Iv. 



36 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

removed. These may be easily taken out after the fish has become 
cold. If the fish has been stuffed and part of the stuffing remains, 
it may be brolten into pieces and used with the flesh of the fish. A 
recipe for croquettes in which fish is combined with rice follows. 

74. Fisli Croquettes. — If any quantity of left-over fish is on 
hand, it may be combined with rice to make very tasty croquettes. 

Fish Croquettes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. cold fish Salt and pepper 

1 c. cold steamed rice 1 egg 

1 c. thick white sauce Crumfes 

Mince the fish into small pieces, mix with the rice, and add the 
white sauce. Season with salt and pepper and shape into croquettes. 
Dip into slightly beaten egg, roll in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Drain and serve with any desired sauce. 

75. Creamed Fish In Potato Nest. — Fish may also be com- 
bined with mashed potato to produce a most appetizing dish. Line 
a baking dish with hot mashed potato, leaving a good-sized hollow 
in the center. Into this pour creamed fish made by mixing equal 
proportions of left-over cold fish and white sauce. Season well with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle with crumbs, and dot the top with butter. 
Bake until the crumbs are brown. Serve hot. 



SHELiL FISH 



NATURE, VARIETIES, AND USE OF SHELL FISH 

76. Besides the varieties of fish that have already been con- 
sidered, the general term fish also includes shell fish. Fish of this 
kind are different in structure from bony fish, for they are acquatic 
animals that are entirely or partly encased in shells. They include 
mollusks, or bivalves, such as oysters, clams, and scallops, and 
crustaceans, such as lobsters, crabs, and shrimp. 

77. The popularity of the edible varieties of mollusks and crus- 
taceans mentioned depends largely on whether they can be easily 
obtained and whether they are pleasing to the local or individual 
taste. As they are found in salt rivers, bays, and other shallow salt- 
water sources, their greatest use is among people living near the 
seashore, but they are much favored where they can be procured in 



§1S FISH AND SHELL FISH 37 

edible condition. They are not so cheap as many other fish foods; 
that is, a certain amount of money will not purchase so great a quan- 
tity of shell fish, lobster for instance, as some of the well-known 
varieties of fish proper, such as halibut or whitefish. Lobsters and 
crabs are usually more expensive than oysters and clams ; conse- 
quently, they are used more often to provide a delicacy or to supply 
something more or less uncommon for a special meal. 

78. Several precautions should be observed in purchasing shell 
fish. For instance, crabs and lobsters should be purchased alive. 
They are usually shipped on ice so that they will remain in this con- 
dition for some time, and they are displayed on ice in the markets 
for the same reason. Such shell fish should be kept alive until they 
are plunged into boiling water to cook. Oysters and clams 
bought in the shell must also be alive when purchased. A tightly 
closed shell indicates that they are alive, whereas a slightly open 
shell proves that they are dead. If these two varieties are bought 
out of the shells, the fish themselves should not be accompanied by 
a great quantity of liquid. Considerable liquid is an indication that 
the oysters or clams have been adulterated by the addition of water. 
Formerly it was the custom to keep oysters in fresh water, as 
the water they absorb bloats or fattens them. This practice, how- 
ever, has fallen into disfavor. 

79. Shell fish lend themselves admirably to a large variety of 
dishes, including soups, entrees, salads, and substitutes for meat 
dishes. They possess a great deal of distinctive flavor, their food 
value is comparatively high, and, provided they are in good condi- 
tion and are properly prepared, they are healthful and easily 
digested. It can therefore be seen that shell fish have much to 
recommend their use. There is considerable danger, however, in 
using any varieties that are not perfectly fresh or freshly cooked. 
In the case of mollusks, or bivalves, much harm has resulted from 
the use of those which have been grown or bred in unsanitary sur- 
roundings. Because of these facts, it is of the utmost importance 
that great care be exercised in selecting and preparing shell fish. 

80. Composition and Food Value of Shell Fish. — In 

composition, the varieties of fish included under shell fish do not 
differ greatly from fish proper. Most of them, however, contain 
more waste and less of the tood substances than fish, so that iheir 



38 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



food value is somewhat lower. Table IV will serve to give a good 
idea of the composition and food value of the several varieties of 
shell fish, and in studying it, a good plan will be to compare it with 
Table I, which gives the food value of fish. As will be observed, 

TABLE IV 

COMPOSITIOIV AJfD FOOD VALUE OF SHKI,L, FISH 



Name of Fish 



Clams, removed from 

shell 

Crabs, whole 

Lobsters, whole 

Oysters, in shell 

Scallops 



Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Total 
Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 


80.8 


10.6 


1.1 


5.2 


2.3 


77.1 


16.6 


2.0 


12 


3.1 


79.2 


16.4 


1.8 


.4 


2.2 


86.9 


6.2 


1.2 


Zl 


2.0 


80.3 


14.8 


.1 


3.4 


1.4 



Food 

Value 

per 
Pound 

Calories 



340 
415 
390 
235 
345 



protein forms a very large proportion of the food substance of shell 
fish. Also, they contain more carbohydrates than fish, the amount 
ranging from .4 to 5.2 per cent., which is in the form of sugar. 

TABLE V 
seasons for shelii. fish 

Name of Fish Season 

Clams, hard shelled All the year 

Clams, soft shelled May 1 to October IS 

Crabs, hard shelled All the year 

Crabs, soft shelled March 1 to October IS 

Lobsters All the year 

Oysters September 1 to May 1 

Scallops September 15 to April 1 

Shrimp [March IS to June 1, and 

[ September 15 to October IS 

Although this amount is too small to warrant much consideration as 
a supply of carbohydrates, it is mentioned because it is an interest- 
ing fact. 

81. Seasons for Shell Fish.. — ^With the exception of clams 
and lobster, which can be obtained all the year around, shell fish 
have particular seasons ; that is, there is a certain time of the year 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



39 



when they are not suitable for food. It is very important that every 
housewife know just what these seasons are, so that she will not 
include the foods in the diet of her family when they should not be 
used. Table V, which will furnish her with the information she 
needs, should therefore be carefully studied. 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, ANB SCALLOPS 



OYSTERS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

82. Oysters, clams, and scallops are salt-water fish that 
belong to the family of mollusks, or soft-bodied animals. They are 
entirely encased in hard shells, which, though of the same general 




Fig. 25 

shape, dififer somewhat from each other in appearance. Fig. 25 
shows a group of oysters and clams, the three on the left being 
oysters and the three on the right, clams. Oysters are larger than 
clams and have a rough, uneven shell, whereas clams have a smooth, 
roundish shell. The three varieties of mollusks are closely related 
in their composition and in their use as food, but as oysters are 
probably used more commonly than the others they are considered 
first. 



83. Composition of Oysters. — Oysters occupy a prominent 
place among animal foods, because they are comparatively high in 
protein. In addition, they contain a substance that most flesh foods 
lack in any quantity, namely, carbohydrate in the form of glycogen, 
and for this reason are said to resemble milk closely in composition, 



Carbo- 
hydrate 


MiNERA 

Salts 


5.0 


.7 


3.7 


2.0 



40 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

A comparison of the following figures will show how these foods 
resemble each other : 

Water Protein Fat 

Milk 87.0 3.3 4.0 

Oysters 86.9 6.2 1.2 

Oysters, as will be observed, contain only a small quantity of fat, 
and for this reason their total food value is somewhat lower than 
that of milk. A pint of milk has a value of 325 calories, while the 
same quantity of oysters has an approximate value of only 250 
calories. Because of the difference in the cost of these two foods, 
oysters costing several times as much as milk, the use of oysters is 
not so cheap a way of supplying food material. 

84. Digestibility of Oysters. — When merely the ability of 
the digestive tract to handle oysters is taken into consideration, they 
are said to be easily digested if they are served raw or are properly 
prepared. This is due to the fact that when taken as a food they 
are disposed of in a comparatively short time by the stomach. In 
addition, their absorption from the alimentary tract is quite com- 
plete ; that is, they contain little or no waste material. But, just as 
cooking has much to do with the digestibility of other protein foods, 
so it has with oysters. For this reason, the housewife who wishes 
to feed her family this food in its most digestible form must thor- 
oughly understand all phases of its cooking. 

85. Healthfulness of Oysters. — Much illness has been attrib- 
uted to oysters, and without doubt they have been the cause of 
some typhoid and some ptomaine poisoning. A knowledge of the 
reason for these diseases has done much to eliminate them. It 
is now definitely known that much of the typhoid caused from eat- 
ing oysters was due to the conditions under which they were grown. 
In their growth, oysters fasten themselves to stationary things, 
such as rocks or piles driven into the ground underneath the water, 
and they obtain their food by simply opening the shell and making 
use of minute particles of plant and animal life that they are able 
to extract from the water. When the water was not clean or when 
sewage was turned into it, typhoid germs were transmitted to per- 
sons who took oysters as food. At present, there is scarcely any 
danger from such causes, for more care is now given* to the condi- 
tions under which oysters grow. Ptomaine poisoning from oysters 



§ 13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 41 

was caused by eating them when they had been improperly cared for 
in storage or had been taken from the shells after they were dead. 
Unless persons handling oysters know how to take care of them, this 
danger is still likely to exist. 

86. Purchasing Oysters. — To be able to purchase oysters 
intelligently, the housewife should be familiar with the names of the 
various kinds. These names are dependent on the locality from 
which the oysters come, and include Blue Points, Cape Cods, Cohiits, 
Lynn Havens, and numerous other varieties. It should be remem- 
bered that the varieties rkised in different localities are quite dis- 
tinctive, differing to some extent in both size and appearance. Unless 
the purchaser is familiar with the different varieties, almost any of 
the small oysters are likdy to be sold to her for one of the small 
varieties and, likewise, any of the large oysters for one of the large 
varieties. While this is of small consequence, provided the quality 
is satisfactory and the price is right, it is well for every housewife 
to familiarize herself with the names of the various kinds, so that 
she may know just what variety she is purchasing. 

87. When oysters are bought in the shell, they should be alive, 
a fact that can be determined by the tightly closed shell, as has 
already been stated. If the shells are not closed or can be easily 
pried apart, it may be known that the oysters are not good and that 
they should be rejected. When it is possible to procure them, 
oysters that have been removed from the shells immediately after 
being taken from the beds are preferable to those which have not 
been removed from the shells before shipping. When purchased 
out of the shells, oysters should be grayish in color, should have no 
disagreeable odor, and should contain no excess water or liquid. 
After being purchased, oysters should be kept on ice unless they can 
be cooked at once. 

The season for oysters is from September to April, inclusive. 
While in some localities they can be purchased at other times during 
the year, they are not likely to be so good. In fact, it is not safe to 
use oysters during the warm months. 

88. Important Points in Cooking Oysters. — The protein 
of oysters, like that found in other foods, is coagulated by heat. Long 
heat, provided it is sufficiently intense, makes oysters tough, and in 
this condition they are neither agreeable to eat nor readily digested. 
When they are to be cooked at a high temperature, therefore, the 



42 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



cooking should be done quickly. If they are to be cooked at a tem- 
perature below the boiling point, they may be subjected to heat for 
a longer time without becoming so tough as when a high tem- 
perature is used. Cooking quickly at a high temperature, how- 
ever, is preferable in most cases to long, slow cooking. For example, 
in the preparation of oyster stew, long cooking produces no better 
flavor than short cooking at a high temperature and renders oysters 
far less digestible. 

89. Opening Oysters.— Unless oysters are bought already 
opened, it becomes necessary to open them in the home before they 
can be served raw or cooked. To open oysters is not difficult, and 
with a little experience the work can be done with ease. It will be 

well to note that the 
two shells of an oyster, 
which are called valves, 
are held together by a 
single muscle, known as 
the adductor muscle, 
that lies near the center, 
and that this muscle 
must be cut before the 
shell will open readily. 
Before attempting to 
open oysters, however, 
they should be scrubbed 
with clean water, so as to remove any sand that may be on the shells. 
When the oysters are cleaned, proceed to open them in the manner 
shown in Figs. 26 and 27. First, as in Fig. 26, insert the point of a 
knife into the hinged, or pointed, end and push the blade between 
the valves until they appear to separate, when it will be known that 
the muscle has been cut. Then, as in Fig. 27, lay the valves open 
and loosen the oyster from the shell by slipping the knife under it. 
If the oysters that are being opened are to be cooked before serv- 
ing, simply drop them with their liquid into a suitable vessel and dis- 
card the shells. Before using the oysters, remove them from the 
liquid, look them over carefully to see that no small particles of 
shells cling to them, and wash them in clean, cold water to remove 
any sand that may be present. Also, strain the liquid through a 
cloth, so that it will be free from sand when used in the preparation 




Fig. 26 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



43 



of the dish for which the oysters are to be used or for the making 
of soup or broth. 

Oysters that are to be eaten raw are frequently served on the half 
shell. Therefore, if they are to be used in this way, place each 
oyster, as it is loosened in the process of opening, into the deeper 
shell, as Fig. 27 shows, and discard the other one. Very often good- 
looking oyster shells are saved in order that they may be used from 
time to time in serving raw oysters that are bought already opened. 

90. Raw Oysters.' — When an appetizer is desired in a meal 
that is to consist of several courses, raw oysters are often used for 
the first course. Oysters that are to be eaten raw may be served 
in the shells or removed from them. They are bland in flavor. 




Fig. 27 

however, and require some sharp, highly seasoned sauce in order to 
give them sufficient snap. The sauces commonly used for this pur- 
pose include cocktail sauce, chilli sauce, catsup, horseradish, and 
tobasco sauce. Sometimes, though, lemon juice or vinegar and pep- 
per and salt are preferred to sauce. As a rule, crisp crackers, small 
squares of toast, or wafers and butter accompany "raw oysters in 
any form, and sometimes celery and radishes are served, too. 

91. When a cocktail sauce is served with raw oysters, they are 
generally referred to as oyster cocktails. Two methods of serv- 
ing these are in practice. In one, as shown in Fig. 28, the cocktail 
sauce is put into a small glass placed in the center of a soup plate 
filled with cracked ice, and the oysters, usually six in half shells, are 



44 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



arranged around the glass, on the ice. In the other, as shown in 
Fig. 29, the desired number of oysters that have been removed from 
the shells are dropped into a stemmed glass containing the cocktail 




Fig. 28 

sauce, and the glass is placed in a bowl of cracked ice. An oyster 
fork, which is a small, three-pronged fork, is always served with 
raw oysters, and usually a piece of lemon is supplied in addition to 
the cocktail sauce. 

92. Oyster Stew. — If an extremely nutritious way of prepar- 
ing oysters is desired, oyster stew should be selected. This is per- 
haps the simplest way in which to cook oysters, and yet care must 




Fig. 29 



be exercised in making this dish, for the oysters should not be 
cooked too long and the milk, which must be brought to the boiling 
point, should not be allowed to burn. Oyster stew makes an excel- 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 45 

lent dish for lunch. It should not be served as the first course of a 
heavy meal because of the large amount of nutriment it contains. 

Oyster Stew 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. oysters 1 tsp. salt 

1 qt. milk ^ tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. butter 

Pour 1 cupful of water over the oysters, look them over carefully, 
and remove any pieces of shell that may cling to the oysters, making 
sure that any particles of sand are washed off. Heat this liquid to 
the boiling point and then strain it through a cloth. Put the milk 
on the fire to heat, and when hot, add the butter, salt, and pepper, 
and strained liquid. After the whole mixture has come to the boil- 
ing point, pour in the oysters and cook until they look plump and the 
edges begin to curl. Remove from the heat and serve with crisp 
crackers. 

93. Creamed Oysters, — Another nutritious way in which to 
prepare oysters and at the same time produce a dish that is pleasing 
to most persons is to cream them. After being creamed, oysters 
may be served over toast or in timbale cases. 

Creamed Oysters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter Salt and pepper 

24 oysters 6 slices toast or 6 timbale 

1| c. medium white sauce cases 

Melt the butter in a frying pan, add the oysters, and heat them in 
the butter until the edges begin to curl slightly. Pour the hot oysters 
into the hot white sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
serve over toast or in timbale cases. 

94. Scalloped Oysters. — No food makes a more palatable 
scalloped dish than oysters. Oysters so prepared are liked by nearly 
every one, and the ingredients with which they are combined help 
to give such a dish balance so far as the food substances are con- 
cerned. Care should be taken, however, in the baking of scalloped 
oysters, for they are likely to become tough if they are cooked too 

long. 

Scalloped Oysters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. bread crumbs 1 pt. oysters 

2 Tb. butter Salt and pepper 
1 c. cracker crumbs 1 c. milk 



46 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 

Butter the bread crumbs with the butter, and then mix them with 
the cracker crumbs. Sprinkle the bottom of a greased baking dish 
with one-fourth of the crumbs, and over this put a layer of oysters 
that have been previously cleaned. Sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and add one-fourth more of the crumbs. Add another layer of 
oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place the remainder of 
the crumbs on top. Strain the liquid from the oysters through a 
piece of cloth, mix this with the milk, and pour over the dish thus 
prepared. Place in a hot oven, and bake until the mixture is thor- 
oughly heated and the top is brown. 

95. Fried Oysters. — Of all the dishes prepared from oysters, 
fried oysters undoubtedly find favor with the greatest number of 
persons. However, unless care is taken in frying the oysters, they 
are likely to be somewhat indigestible. Deep fat should be used for 
this purpose, and it should be hot enough to brown a 1-inch cube of 
bread a golden brown in 40 seconds. 

Fried Oysters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

24 large oysters Fine cracker crumbs 

1 egg Salt 

i c. milk Pepper 

Thoroughly dry the oysters by laying them on one end of a soft 
cloth and patting them with the other. Beat the egg and add the 
milk to it. Dip the oysters into the cracker crumbs, then into the 
egg-and-milk mixture, and again into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat 
until brown. Remove from the fat, drain well, and place on oiled 
paper. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve hot. 

96. Oyster Pie. — Baking oysters into a pie is another means 
of combining a protein food with foods that are high in other food 
substances. As oyster pie is somewhat hearty, it may be used as the 
main dish of a heavy meal. 

Oyster Pie 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. oysters Salt and pepper 

1 c. medium white sauce Baking-powder biscuit dough 

Cut each of the oysters into three or four pieces, and place them 
in a greased baking dish. Pour over them the hot white sauce and 
the juice from the oysters. Season with salt and pepper. Over the 
top, place a layer of the biscuit dough rolled about J inch thick. Set 
in a hot oven and bake until the crust is brown. 



§ 13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 47 

97. Pigs in Blankets.' — When something entirely different in 
the way of oysters is desired, pigs in blankets should be tried. This 
is a very good name for the dish given in the accompanying recipe, 
for the oysters are rolled up in a strip of bacon, which serves as a 
blanket. They are especially suitable for a light meal, such as lun- 
cheon or a dainty lunch that is to be served to company. 

Pigs in Blankets 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

18 large oysters 18 thin strips of bacon 

After the oysters have been cleaned, roll each one in a strip of 
bacon. Fasten the bacon where the edges meet by running a tooth- 
pick through at this point. Place in a broiler and broil on one side 
until brown ; then turn them and broil until the other side is brown. 
Serve hot. 

98. Oyster Fritters. — Variety may also be secured in the use 
of oysters by making oyster fritters. When such fritters are nicely 
browned and served with an appetizing sauce, an attractive as well 
as a tasty dish is the result. 

Oyster Fritters 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. oysters 1-egg muffin batter 

Clean the oysters and cut each into four or five pieces. Make a 
one-egg muffin batter and to it add the cut oysters. Drop the mix- 
ture by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry until brown. Remove from 
the fat, drain, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve with a 
desired sauce. 



CliAMS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

99. Nature and Digestibility of Clams. — Clams are 
bivalves similar to oysters in both form and composition. Because 
of the similarity in composition, they are utilized in much the same 
ways as oysters, being used extensively for food in parts of the 
country where the supply is large. There are numerous varieties of 
clams, and some of them differ slightly from each other in appear- 
ance, color, and flavor. Preference for the different varieties is 
largely a matter of individual taste. 

Clams may be purchased loose or in the shell and they may be 
served in or out of the shell. However, when bought in the shell, 
they must be purchased alive and must be subjected to the same tests 
as are oysters. As in the case of oysters, they may be eaten raw or 



48 FISH AND SHELL PISH §13 

cooked. Their preparation for cooking is similar to that of oysters- 
In the raw state, they are easily digested, but upon the application 
of heat they become tough, and the longer they are cooked, the 
tougher they become. It can therefore be seen that the digestibility 
of clams is influenced very much by cooking. 

100. Opening Clams. — If clams are to be opened in the 
home, the method illustrated in Fig. 30 may be employed. First 
wash the clams to remove the sand, and then place a clam on a hard 
surface so that the pointed edge is up. Insert the thin edge of a 
knife into the very slight groove between the shells, or valves, and 
with a heavy utensil of some kind strike the top of the knife several 




Fig. 30 

times so as to separate the valves. Then, as in opening oysters, 
spread the shells apart, as shown, and loosen the clam from the shell 
it adheres to. 

101. Raw Clams. — Like oysters, raw clams are generally 
served as a cocktail, or an appetizer, at the beginning of a meal. If 
they are to be served in the half shell, place them in a dish of cracked 
ice; if they are to be served without the shells, place the required 
number in a stemmed glass that is set in a dish of cracked ice. In 
either case, lemon or a suitable sauce, or both, should be supplied. 

102. Steamed Clams. — Steaming is the method generally 
adopted when clams in large numbers are cooked for a "clam bake," 
but there is no reason why it cannot be used by the housewife when 
she wishes to cook only enough for her family. When large quan- 
tities are to be steamed, use is generally made of a steamer, but the 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 49 

housewife will find that she can steam a few clams very satisfac- 
torily in a saucepan or a similar vessel. 

To prepare steamed clams, scrub the shells of the clams until they 
are perfectly clean. Place the desired number thus cleaned in a 
saucepan and add enough water to cover the bottom of the pan about 
1 inch. Allow this to cook until the shells of the clams open. 
Remove the clams from the pan and serve them in the shells. Pro- 
vide each person with a small dish of melted butter into which to 
dip the clams as they are removed from the shells to be eaten. The 
liquid found in the clams may be poured from the shell before the 
clams are served, and after being well seasoned may be served as 
clam broth. 

103. Baked Clams, — Another very appetizing way in which 
to prepare clams is to combine them with bread crumbs, season 
them well, and then bake them until they are well browned. Select 
several good-sized clams for each person to be served. Scrub the 
shells well and open them. Remove the clams and chop them into 
small pieces. To each cupful of chopped clams, add 2 cupfuls of 
buttered bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 table- 
spoonful of chopped pimiento, and 1 tablespoonful of onion juice. 
Season the mixture with salt and pepper and fill the shells with it. 
Place these in a shallow pan and bake in a very hot oven until the 
crumbs are well browned on top. Serve hot. 

104. Fried Clams.> — As oysters make a very desirable dish 
when fried in deep fat, so clams may be treated in this way, too. 
Remove the desired number of clams from the shells, wash them 
thoroughly, and dry them on a clean towel. Dip them into beaten 
egg, and finally into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat until they are a 
golden brown. Serve with slices of lemon. 



SCAI.I/OPS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

105. Nature of Scallops. — Scallops, which are another form 
of bivalves, are less commonly used for food than oysters and clams. 
Scalloped dishes get their name from the fact that scallop shells 
were originally used for their preparation. Not all of the scallop 
is used for food ; merely the heavy muscle that holds the two shells 
together, is edible. Scallops are slightly higher in protein than 
oysters and clams and they also have a higher food value than these 



50 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

two mollusks. The most common method of preparation for scallops 
is to fry them, but they may also be baked in the shells. 

106. Fried Scallops. — If scallops are properly fried, they 
make an appetizing dish. As they are a rather bland food, a sauce 
of some kind, preferably a sour one, is generally served with them. 

Select the desired number of scallops and wash thoroughly. Dip 
first into either fine bread crumbs or cracker crumbs, then into 
beaten egg, and again into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat until a 
golden brown, remove, and drain. Serve with lemon or a sour 
sauce, such as horseradish or tomato sauce. 

107. Baked Scallops. — If a tasty as well as a slightly unusual 
dish is desired to give variety to the diet, baked scallops will undoubt- 
edly find favor. As shown in the accompanying recipe, mushrooms 
are one of the ingredients in baked scallops and these not only pro- 
vide additional material, but improve the flavor. 

To prepare baked scallops, clean the desired number, parboil for 
15 minutes, drain, and cut into small pieces. For each cupful of 
scallops, melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan, saute in it 
1 tablespoonful of chopped onion, and add J cupful of chopped 
mushrooms. When these have browned, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour and 1 cupful of milk. Cook until thick and then add the 
scallops. Fill the scallop shells with the mixture, sprinkle with 
buttered bread crumbs, place in the oven, and bake until the crumbs 
are brown. 



LOBSTERS, CRABS, AND SHRIMP 



GSNERAIi CHARACTERISTICS 

108. The shell fish, lobsters, crabs, and shrimp, come under 
the head of crustaceans; that is, animals consisting of jointed sec- 
tions, each of which is covered with a hard shell. Their flesh is 
similar in composition to that of other fish, but it is tougher and 
harder to digest. However, it is popular because of its unique and 
delicate flavor. In fact, whenever these varieties of fish can be 
obtained along the seacoast or within a reasonable distance from the 
place where they are caught, they are considered a delicacy. If they 
can be shipped alive to any point, they are perfectly safe to use, 
although quite high in price because of their perishable nature. 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 51 

109. Unless such shell fish can be procured alive in the markets, 
the use of a good brand of any of them canned is recommended. 
In fact, canned lobster, crab, and shrimp are very satisfactory and 
may be substituted for any of the fresh cooked varieties in the 
recipes that follow. It is true that some persons object to canned 
food because ptomaine poisoning sometimes results, but it has been 
found that ptomaine poisoning is more liable to result from eating 
these foods when they are bought in the market in poor condition 
than when they are secured in canned form. Care must be exer- 
cised, however, whenever use is made of canned food of any kind. 
Upon opening a can of any of these varieties of fish, the entire con- 
tents should be removed from the can at once and used as soon as 
possible. It must be remembered that the ptomaine poisoning that 
is sometimes caused by eating canned foods is not due to the fact 
that the foods come in tin cans, but that they are allowed to stand 
in the cans after they are opened. Upon their being exposed to the 
air, putrefaction sets in and causes the harmful effect. 

110. Lobsters, crabs, and shrimp are very similar in composi- 
tion, shrimp being slightly higher in protein and total food value than 
the others. If they are not prepared in an indigestible way, they are 
comparatively easy to digest. It has been proved a fallacy that 
lobster and ice cream are a dangerous combination, for if both are 
in good condition they may be combined with no ill effects to the 
normal individual. 



I.OBSTBRS AND THBIR PREPARATION 

111. Distlnguisliing Features. — Of these three types of 
sea food, lobsters are perhaps the most popular. They are found 
along the North Atlantic and North Pacific seacoasts. Alive, they 
are mottled bluish-green in color, but upon being cooked they change 
to bright red. As soon as they are caught, many of them are packed 
in ice and shipped alive to various points, while others are plunged 
immediately into boiling water and sold cooked. A live lobster 
ready for cooking is shown in Fig. 3L Lobsters vary greatly in 
size. Only those 9 inches or more in length can be sold, the smaller 
ones being thrown back into the water. When they are purchased 
either raw or cooked, they should be heavy for their size; that 
is, they should be heavy because of their plumpness and good 
condition. 

WI-C3-17 



52 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



112. Preliminary Preparation. — To prepare a lobster, 
which should be alive, grasp it firmly by the back, as shown in 




Fig. 31 

Fig. 32, plunge it quickly, head first, into a kettle of rapidly boiling 
water, and then submerge the rest of the body. Be sure to have a 
sufficient amount of water to cover the lobster completely. Boil 
rapidly for 5 minutes ; then lower the flame or remove to a cooler 
part of the stove and cook slowly for i hour. Remove from the 
water and allow to cool. 

After being prepared in this way, a lobster may be served cold or 
it may be used in the preparation of various made dishes. If it is 

to be used without fur- 
ther preparation, it is 
often served from the 
shell, which is usually 
split open. Mayonnaise 
or some other sauce is 
generally served with 
lobster. The flesh is re- 
moved from the shell 
with a small fork as it 
is eaten. 



113. Removing 
Lobster From the 
Shell. — The majority 
)f the dishes made from 
lObster require that the 
flesh be removed from 




Fig. 32 



the shell. To do this, first pull off the two large claws and the 
four pairs of small claws, as shown in Fig. 33, and break the tail 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



53 



from the body. Then with scissors, as in Fig. 34, cut a single slit 
the entire length of the shell covering the under part of the tail and 




Fig. 33 

remove the flesh inside the tail in a whole, large piece, as shown in 
Fig. 35. The intestinal tract, which can be readily observed, will 
be found embedded in this piece and running the entire length. 
Slash the flesh and remove it. Next remove the flesh of the body 
from the shell, retaining only that part which appears to be fibrous, 
like the flesh of the tail. The stomach, which is called "the lady" 
because its inside ap- 
pearance closely resem- 
bles a lady sitting in a 
chair, should not be re- 
moved from the shell. 
However, care should 
be taken to obtain all the 
flesh surrounding the 
bones in the bony part 
of the lobster. The coral 
substance, that is, the 
roe of the lobster, should 
also be removed, as it 
can be used for a gar- 
nish. 

With the flesh removed from the shell, proceeds to take out that 
contained in the claws. Break open the large claws, using a nut 




Fig. 34 



u 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



§13 



cracker or a small hammer for this purpose, and, as in Fig. 36, remove 
the flesh that they contain. If the small claws are to be used for a 

garnish, as is often done, 
remove the flesh without 
breaking them ; other- 
wise break them as in 
the case of the large 
ones. 

114. Lobster 

Cocktail. — Practically 
all varieties of shell fish 
make most satisfactory 
cocktails, and lobster is 
no exception. To make 
a lobster cocktail, shred 
or cut into small pieces 
the flesh of a lobster that 
has been prepared according to the directions just given. Chill the 
shreds or pieces and then serve them in stemmed cocktail glasses 
with any desirable cocktail sauce. 

115. Scalloped Lobster. — Persons who care for the flavor 




Fig. 35 




Fig. 36 



of lobster will find scalloped lobster a very attractive dish. When 
prepared in this way, it is suitable either for luncheon or for dinner. 



§ 13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 55 

Scalloped Lobster 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. lobster meat 1 hard-cooked egg 

1 c. medium white sauce Salt 

f c. buttered bread crumbs Pepper 
Mix the lobster with the medium white sauce. Butter a baking 
dish, place half of the crumbs in the bottom, and pour over them the 
lobster and white sauce. Slice the hard-cooked egg over the top of 
the lobster, season the whole well with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
the remainder of the crumbs over the top. Place in a hot oven and 
bake until the crumbs are brown. Garnish with sprays of parsley 
and serve at once. 

116. Deviled Lobster. — A dish that is delicious and at the 
same time very attractive is deviled lobster. After removing the 
flesh from the shell, the shell should be cleaned thoroughly, as it is 
to be used as a receptacle in which to put the lobster mixture for 
baking. When removed from the oven, this dish can be made more 
attractive by garnishing it with the lobster claws and tail. 

Deviled Lobster 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 Tb. chopped onion -J tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. butter 1 Tb. lemon juice 

2 Tb. flour 1 Tb. chopped parsley 

I tsp. salt 1 c. milk 

Dash of Cayenne pepper 2 c. lobster meat 

i tsp. paprika i c. buttered cracker crumbs 

Saute the onion in the butter, and to this add the flour, salt, 
Cayenne pepper, paprika, pepper, lemon juice, and parsley. Mix 
well and add the milk. When the whole has cooked until it is thick, 
add the lobster. Pour the mixture into the clean shell of the lobster, 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs, and place in the oven long enough to 
brown the crumbs. Remove from the oven, place on a serving dish, 
garnish with the claws and tail of the lobster, if desired, and serve 
at once. 

117. Lobster k la Newburg. — ^When lobster a la Newburg 
is mentioned, one naturally thinks of a chafing dish, for this is one 
of the dishes that is very often made in a chafing dish and served at 
small social gatherings. However, it can be made just as satisfac- 
torily on the kitchen stove and is a dish suitable for a home luncheon 
or small dinner. 



56 FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

Lobster A la Newburg 
(SufScient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter i c. milk 

1 Tb. flour i c. thin cream 

2 c. lobster 1 tsp. vinegar 

i tsp. salt 1 Tb. lemon juice 

Few grains of Cayenne pepper 2 egg yolks 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and into this pour the 
lobster meat cut into rather large pieces. Add the salt, pepper, milk, 
and cream ; cook together until thick, and then pour in the vinegar 
and lemon juice. Beat the egg yolks and stir them into the cooked 
mixture, using care to prevent them from curdling. When the mix- 
ture has thickened, remove from the stove and serve over toast. 

118. Lobster Croquettes. — Probably the most attractive dish 
that can be made out of lobster is the one explained in the accom- 
panying recipe. As this is artistically garnished, and at the same 
time extremely appetizing, it is suitable for a meal that is intended 
to be very nice, such as a dainty luncheon. If the elaborate garnish- 
ing here suggested is not desired, the croquettes may be served with 
merely a suitable sauce. 

Lobster Croquettes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. thick white sauce i tsp. salt 

2 eggs I tsp. pepper 

2 c. diced lobster meat Fine bread crumbs 

Prepare the white sauce and allow it to cool. Add one beaten egg 
and the lobster meat. Season with the salt and pepper. Shape into 
croquettes, roll in beaten egg, then in crumbs, and fry in deep fat 
until an even brown. Drain, stick a lobster claw into the end of each, 
and arrange on a platter with the claws around the outside. Pour 
a medium white sauce over the opposite ends and the centers of the 
croquettes and over this sprinkle the lobster coral and hard-cooked 
egg yolks, which have been forced through a sieve. In the center of 
the platter, arrange a small mound of parsley and one of the large 
claws of the lobster. 



CRABS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

ll9. Nature of Crabs. — Numerous varieties of crabs are 
obtained along the seashores of the United States, and most of them 
measure not more than 5 or 6 inches across. Shell fish in this form 



§13 FISH AND SHELL FISH 57 

are used for food both before the shells have hardened, when they 
are known as soft-shelled crabs, and after the shells have grown 
hard, when they are called hard-shelled crabs. To be at their best, 
crabs should be as heavy as lobsters in proportion to their size. 
Their flesh should be firm and stiflf and their eyes should be bright. 
The male crab has a smaller body and longer claws than the 
female. In food value, crabs are quite similar to lobsters. 

Tiny oyster crabs are found in the shells of crabs as well as in 
oysters. These are considered a great delicacy and are used chiefly 
for garnishing, because they are very small and, as a rule, are not 
found in large numbers. 

120. Preliminary Preparation. — Before either soft-shelled 
or hard-shelled crabs can be used as food, a certain amount of prep- 
aration is necessary. In the case of hard-shelled crabs, plunge them 
alive into hot water, allow them to come to the boiling point, and 
cook slowly for ^ hour. It is a good plan to add 1 tablespoonful of 
salt for each crab that is being boiled. While the crabs are cooking, 
remove the scum that rises to the top. When they are sufficiently 
cooked, open the shells and take out the meat, being careful to 
remove all the meat from the claws. 

Soft-shelled crabs require a somewhat different kind of prepara- 
tion. With this variety, lift up the points on each side of the back 
shell and remove the spongy substance that is found under them. 
In addition, take off the apron, which is the small piece that occurs 
at the lower part of the shell and that terminates in points. The 
crabs are then ready for frying, which is the method of cooking that 
is usually applied to this variety. 

121. Crab-Flake Cocktail. — Crab meat is used for cocktails 
in the same way as oysters, clams, and lobster. In fact, no better 
appetizer to serve at the beginning of a meal can be found. To 
make crab-flake cocktail, remove the meat from the shells of cooked 
hard-shelled crabs in the way just explained, and chill it. Then 
place it in stemmed glasses and serve with cocktail sauce. 

122. Deviled. Crabs. — Variety in the cooking of hard-shelled 
crabs can be secured by deviling them according to the accompany- 
ing directions. As will be observed, this is done in practically the 
same way that lobster is deviled. 



58 ' FISH AND SHELL FISH §13 

Deviled Crabs 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

2 Tb. butter Dash Cayenne pepper 

4 crabs i tsp. pepper 

1 c. cream sauce 1 egg 

1 Tb. onion juice Cracker crumbs 

i tsp. salt 
Put the butter in a frying pan, add the meat from the four crabs, 
and pour into this the cream sauce. Season with the onion juice, 
salt, Cayenne pepper, and pepper. Add the well-beaten egg and 
allow the mixture to cook until the egg has thickened, being careful 
not to let it curd. Fill the back shells of the crabs with this mix- 
ture, sprinkle with cracker crumbs, place in a hot oven, and bake 
until brown. Serve hot or cold. 

123. Fried Soft-Shelled Crabs. — ^After soft-shelled crabs 
are prepared in the manner explained in Art. 120, they are usually 
fried in deep fat. Egg and cracker dust or flour are used to make a 
coating for the crabs. 

Fried Soft-Shelled Crabs 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

4 soft-shelled crabs Cracker dust or flour 

1 egg Salt and pepper 

Prepare the crabs by removing the apron and the spongy sub- 
stance under the shell of each crab. Beat the egg slightly. Roll the 
crabs first in the egg and then in the cracker dust or the flour. Fry 
in hot, deep fat until a golden brown. Remove from the fat, drain, 
and sprinkle well with salt and pepper to season. Serve hot or cold. 

124. Creamed Crab Meat. — ^When the meat of hard-shelled 

crabs is creamed, it makes a very dainty dish, especially if it is served 
over toast or in timbale cases. To give a touch of color and at the 
same time add a little flavor, chopped pimiento is generally added. 
Boil the desired number of hard-shelled crabs and remove the 
meat from the shells. For each cupful of crab meat, prepare 1 cup- 
ful of medium white sauce. Add the crab meat, season well, and, if 
desired, add some chopped pimiento. Serve hot over toast or in 
timbale cases. 



SHRIMP AND THEIR PREPARATION 

125. Nature of Shrimp. — Shrimp are similar to crabs and 
lobsters in composition and in the methods of preparation. They 
differ considerably in appearance, however, and are smaller in size. 



§13 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



59 




Fig. 37 



When alive, shrimp are a mottled greenish color, but upon being 
dropped into boiling-hot water they turn red. When they have cooked 
sufficiently, the meat, which is very delicious, may be easily removed 
from the shells. After the meat of shrimp is thus prepared, it may 
be used cold in a salad or a cocktail or it may be utilized in a number 
of ways for hot dishes. Very often a chafing dish is used in the 
preparation of such 
dishes, but this utensil 
is not necessary, as they 
may be cooked in an 
ordinary utensil on a 
stove of any kind. 

126. Creamed 
Shrimp. — The usual 
way of preparing shrimp 
is to cook it with mush- 
rooms and then serve it 
over toast, or, as shown in Fig. 37, in timbale cases. Creamed shrimp 
is dainty in appearance, pleasing to the taste, and highly nutritious. 

Creamed Shrimp 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. medium white sauce ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. diced shrimp | tsp. pepper 

i c. chopped mushrooms 
Heat the white sauce, and to it add the shrimp, mushrooms, salt, 
and pepper. Beat a little butter into the mixture to improve the 
flavor, heat, and serve in timbale cases, as shown, or over toast. 

127. Shrimp a La Salle. — Shrimp also makes an appetizing 
and attractive dish when combined with tomato and green pepper. 
The accompanying recipe gives directions for the preparation of 
such a dish, which is called shrimp a La Salle. 

Shrimp A La Salle 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter 1 Tb. chopped onion 

1 c. shredded shrimp ' 1 tsp. celery salt 

1 c. stewed tomato 1 tsp. salt 

1 small green pepper, chopped i tsp. pepper 

Brown the butter in a saucepan, and add the shrimp, tomato, 

green pepper, onion, celery salt, salt, and pepper. Heat all together 

thoroughly, and serve over toast. 



60 FISH AND SHELL FISH § 13 



COCKTAIL, SAUCES 

128. The various kinds of shell fish are served so frequently 
as cocktails that cocktail sauces are much in demand. The founda- 
tion of these sauces is always tomato catsup, but the ingredients 
used for seasoning usually vary according to individual taste. The 
following recipes make amounts sufficient for one serving: 

Cocktail Sauce I 
I tsp. grated horseradish 10 drops Worcestershire sauce 

Juice of i lemon 1 Tb. tomato catsup 

12 drops tobasco sauce 

Cocktail Sauce II 
1 Tb. tomato catsup Dash of tobasco sauce 

1 Tb. grapefruit juice Sprinkling of salt 

1 tsp. spiced vinegar Dusting of chopped parsley 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly and serve with oysters, clams, 
lobster, shrimp, or crab meat thoroughly chilled. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) For what food may fish be substituted in the diet? (b) How does 
fish compare with meat as to its usefulness as food ? 

(2) (a) What food substances are present in fish ? (b) How does the food 
value of fish compare with that of meat? 

(3) (o) Discuss the digestibility of fish. (&) How does the salting of 
fish for preservation affect its digestibility? 

(4) How does the housewife's purchase of fish affect the market price? 

(5) What methods of cookery should be used in preparing: (o) large fish? 
(6) small fish? 

(6) Mention the tests for determining the freshness of fish. 

(7) Discuss the care of fish in the home. 

(8) Give the steps in the preparation of a fish for cooking. 

(9) Give the steps in the boning of a fish. 

(10) (a) What are fillets? (6) Tell briefly how fillets are obtained. 

(11) Why are sauces frequently served with fish? 

(12) (a) What is larding? (6) How may fish be larded? (c) For what 
purpose is larding done? 

(13) How may salt fish be freshened? 

(14) (o) Mention the shell fish. (6) Discuss their usefulness in the diet. 

(15) What precautions should be taken in the purchase of shell fish? 

(16) Discuss the composition and food value of shell fish. 

(17) Compare the composition of milk with that of oysters. 

(18) (o) What is the season for oysters? (6) How are oysters opened? 

(19) (o) How are clams opened? (6) What is the effect of long cook- 
ing on clams ? 

(20) (a) How are lobsters prepared? (6) Mention the two kinds of 
crabs, (c) How do these differ. 



ADDITIONAIi WORK 

Mention the varieties of fish most common in your local market. 

Compare the cost of a sufficient amount of fish to serve your family with the 
cost of beef and either veal or lamb served to the same number of persons at 
other times. Submit your results. 

§13 



INDLX 



Note. — In this Volume, each Section is complete in itself and has a number, which, 
together with the section mark (§), is printed at the top of every page of the Section, 
To find a reference, glance along the inside edges of the headlines until you find the 
desired Section number and then along the outside edges until you find the desired 
page. Thus, to find the reference "Hard-shelled crabs, §13, pS7," turn to the Section 
marked §13, and then to page 57 of that Section. 

A Beef, Cuts of, §10, pl8 

Fillet of, §10, p31 

for stewing and corning. Cuts of, §10, p38 

Frizzled, §10, p47 

General characteristics of, §10, pl7 

hash, §10, p46 

Left-over, §10, p45 

loaf, §10, p37 

loaf, Recipe for, §10, p38 

loin. Steaks obtained from, §10, p22 

Mexican, §10, p45 

organs and their preparation, §J0, p42 

pie, §10, p46 

Pot-roasted, §10, p37 

Preparation of stews and corned, §10, p38 

Roast, §10, p34 

stew, §10, p38 

Tenderloin of, §10, pp21, 24, 31 
Beefsteak, Broiled, §10, p27 
Beefsteaks and their preparation, §10, p22 
Birds, Preparation of small, §12, p24 

Roast small, §12, p33 
Biscuits, Creamed veal on, §1J, pU 
Bisques, §9, p4 
Bivalves, §13, p36 
Blue points, §13, p41 
Bluefish, Composition and food value o*, 

§13, pS 
Bob veal, §11, pi 
Boiled cod, §13, p22 

corned beef, §10, p41 

dinner, §10, p41 

fish, §13, p21 

ham, §11, p36 

salmon, §13, p32 

tongue, §10, p42 
Boiler, Fish, §13, p21 
Boiling, Cooking meat by, §10, pl3 
Bologna, §11, p39 
Bone stock, §9, p6 



Adductor muscle of an oyster, §13, p42 
American forcemeat balls, §9, p36 
Apples, Bacon with sliced, §11, p34 

Cold pork with fried, §11, p37 
Asparagus soup, Cream-of-, §9, p27 

B 

Bacon, §11, pp27, 33 

and eggs, §11, p34 

Calves' liver and, §11, plO 

combined with cereals, §11, p34 

combined with other foods, §11, p34 

with sliced apples, §11, p34 

with tomatoes, §11, p34 
Baked clams, §13, p49 

fillet of whitefish, §13, p26 

finnan haddie, §13, p32 

fish, §13, p24 

haddock, §13, p2S 

halibut, §13, p26 

ham, §11, p36 

poultry with rice, §12, p49 

scallops, §13, p50 
Balls, American forcemeat, §9, p36 

Codfish, §13, p32 

Egg, §9, p35 

Forcemeat, §9, p35 
Bass, Food value and composition of black, 

§13, p5 
Basting of meat, §10, p36 
Batter, Tirabale-case, §11, p44 
Bechamel, Chicken, §12^ p45 
Beef, §10, pl7 

Boiled corned, §10, p41 

Braized, §10, p36 

Composition and food value of, §10, p5; 
§13, p5 

Cooking of, §10, p22 

Corned, §10, p40 



INDEX 



Boned chicken, |12, p35 
Boning a chicken, §12, p35 

a fish, §13, pl4 
Borsch, §9, p5 
Bnuillon, §9, p4 

Tomato, §9, p21 
Braized beef, §10, p36 

beef. Recipe for, §10, p37 

tongue, §10, p43 
Braizing, §10, plS 
Bread sticks, §9 p34 

stuffing, §12, p33 
Broiled beefsteak, §10, p27 

fillet, §10, p31 

fish, §13, p22 

fresh mackerel, §13, p23 

ham, §11, p35 

pork, Sauted or, §11, p31 

poultry, §12, p25 

scrod with potato border, §13, p23 

shad roe, §13, p23 

squirrel, §12, p53 

sweetbreads, §11, p9 

venison, §12, p55 

venison. Sauce for, §12, p55 
Broiler, §12, p6 
Broilers, Composition and food value of, 

§13. p5 
Broiling, cooking meat by, §10, pl2 
Broth, §9, p4 

Brown sauce, Veal cutlets in, |11, p5 
Buying meats, Points to consider in, §10, p3 



Cabbage, Scalloped pork and, §11, p37 
Calves' liver and bacon, §11, plO 
Canned fish in the diet, §13, p33 
Cape Cods, §13, p41 
Capons, §12, p4 
Carbohydrate in fish, §13, p4 

in meat, §10, p7 
Care, nature, and use of stock pot, §9, p7 

of fish in the home, §13, pU 

of meat, §10, p8 

of meat in the home, §10, plO 

of meat in the market, §10, plO 
Carp, Composition and food value of, §13, p5 
Carving meat. Serving and, §11, p38 

poultry. Serving and, §12, p49 
Casserole, Chicken en, §12, p44 
Catfish, Composition and food value of, 

§13, p5 
Caul, §11, pl5 

Celery and radishes, §9, p32 
Cereals, Bacon combined with, §11, p34 
Chestnut puree, §9, p29 

stuffing, §12, p34 
Chicken a la king, §12, p47 

Bechamel, §12, p45 

Boned, §12, p35 



Chicken broilers. Composition and food 
value of, §13, p5 

Crop of a, §12, pl5 

croquettes, §12, p47 

curry, §12, p44 

Cutting up a, §12, pl9 

Definition of, §12, p6 

Determining the age of, §12, p8 

Determining the freshness of, §12, p9 

Drawing a, §12, pl5 

Dressing a, §12, pl3 

en casserole, §12, p44 

feet. Preparing, §12, p23 

Fricassee of, §12, p43 

Fried, §12, p27 

Frying, §12. p6 

General marks of good quality in, §12, p7 

giblets, §12, pl8 

Gravy for fried, §12, p27 

Jellied, §12, p4S 

Maryland fried, §12, p28 

pie, §12. p43 

Plucking a, §12, pl3 

Poultry other than, §12, p9 

Preparation of, §12, pl3 

Roast, §12, p29 

Roasting, §12, p6 

salad, §12, p47 

salad. Mock, §11, p37 

Selection of, §12, p7 

Singeing a, §12, pl4 

stew with dumplings or noodles, §12, p42 

Wing tips of, §12, p23 

with paprika sauce. Fried, §12, p28 

with rice, §12, p48 
Chickens, Live, §12, p9 
Chops in tomato sauce. Pork, §11, p31 

Lamb and mutton, §11, p20 

Veal, §11, p4 
Chowder, Clam, §9, p30 

Corn, §9, p31 

Fish, §9, p30 

Potato, §9,*p30 
Chowders, §9, pp4, 30 
Chuck roasts, §10, p32 
Clam chowder, §9, p30 
Clams, and scallops. Oysters, §13, p39 

Baked, §13, p49 

Composition and food value of, §13, p38 

Fried, §13, p49 

Nature and digestibility of, §13, p47 

Opening of, §13, p48 

Preparation of, §13, p47 

Raw, §13, p48 

Steamed, §13, p48 
Classes of soup. General, §9, p3 

of soups denoting consistency, §9, p4 
Classification of poultry, §12, p3 

of soups, §9, p3 
Cleaning fish, §13, pll 



INDEX 



111 



Clear soup or bouillon, Stock for, §9, pl9 
soups, §9, p4 
soups and stocks, §9^ pl9 

Clearing soup, §9, pl4 

Cocktail, Crab-fiake, §13, p57 
Lobster, §13, p54 
Oyster, §13, p43 

Cod, Boiled, §13, p22 

Codfish balls, §13, p32 
Creamed, §13, p31 

Cold pork with fried apples, §11, p37 
-storage poultry, §12, p5 

Comparison of fish and meat. Table show- 
ing the, §13, pS 
of fish with meat, §13, p3 
of mutton and lambj §11, pl2 

Composition and food value of beef, §10, 
p5; §13, pS 
and food value of black bass, §13, p5 
and food value of bluefish, §13, p5 
and food value of canned salmon, §13, pS 
and food value of carp, §13, pS 
and food value of catfish, §13, p5 
and food value of chicken broilers, §13, p5 
and food value of clams, §13, p38 
and food value of crabs, §13, p38 
and food value of fowl, §13, p5 
and food value of halibut steak, §13, p5 
and food value of lake trout, §13, p5 
and food value of lamb, §10, p5 
and food value of leg of lamb, §13, p5 
and food value of lobsters, §13, p38 
and food value of mutton, §10, p5 
and food value of oysters, §13, p38 
and food value of pork, §10, p5 
and food value of pork chops, §13, p5 
and food value of red snapper, §13, p5 
and food value of scallops, §13, p38 
and food value of shell fish, §13, p37 
and food value of shell fish. Tables show- 
ing, §13, p38 
and food value of veal, §10, p5 
and fo.od value of whitefish, §13, p5 
and structure of meat, §10, p3 
of fish, §13. p3 
of oysters, §13, p39 
of poultry, §12, pl2 

Connective tissue, §10, p4 

Consomme, §9, pp4, 20 

Cooking meat for soup, §9, pll 
meat. Methods of, |10, pll 
meat. Purposes of, §10, pll 
meat, Time required for, §10, plS 
meats, Time table for, §10, pl6 
of beef, §10, p22 
of fish, §13, pl7 
of giblets, §12, p46 
of mutton and lamb, §11, pl7 
of pork, §11, p29 
t,i poultry, §12, p24 



Cooking of veal, §11, p4 

oysters. Important points in, §13, p41 

Preparing rabbit for, §12, p53 
Corn chowder, §9, p31 

soup, Cream of, §9, p26 
Corned beef, §10, p40 

beef. Boiled, §10, p41 

beef. Preparation of stews and, §10, pJlS 
Cottage pie, §10, p46 
Cotuits, §13, p41 
Crab, Deviled, §13. pS7 

-flake cocktail, §13, p57 

meat, Creamed, §13, pS8 
Crabs, and shrimp. General characteristics 
of lobsters, §13, p50 

Composition and food value of, §13, pZ2 

Fried soft-shelled, §13, p58 

Hard-shelled, §13, p57 

Nature of, §13, p56 

Oyster, §13, p57 

Preliminary preparation of, §13, p57 

Preparation of, §13, p56 

Soft-shelled, §13, p57 
Cracker stuffing, §12, p33 
Crackers, §9, p33 
Cream-of-asparagus soup, §9, p27 

-of-corn soup, §9, p26 

-of-onion soup, §9, p23 

-of-pea soup, §9, p27 

-of-potato soup, §9, p26 

-of-spinach soup, §9, p27 

-of-tomato soup, §9, p28 

sauce. Lemon, §13, pl8 

soups, §9, pp4, 25 
Creamed codfish, §13, p31 

crab meat, §13, pS8 

finnan haddie, §13, p32 

fish in potato nest, §13, p36 

oysters, §13, p4S 

salmon with rice, §13, p35 

shrimp, §13, p59 

sweetbreads, §11, p9 

tuna fish, §13, p33 

veal on biscuits, §11, pll 
Crop of a chicken, §12, pl5 
Croquettes, §11, p41 

Chicken, §12, p47 

Fish, §13, p35 

Frying of, §11, p43 

Lobster, §13, p56 

Sweetbread, §11, p43 

Veal, §11, p42 
Croutons, §9, p33 
Crown roast of lamb, §11, pl9 

roast of pork, §11, p30 
Crustaceans, §13, p36 
Cured pork. Preparation of, §11, p32 
Curry, Chicken, §12, p44 
Cutlets in brown sauce, Veal, §11, pS 

Pan-broiled veal steak or, §11, pS 



IV 



INDEX 



Cutlets, Veal steaks or, §11, p5 
Cuts, Names and uses of beef, |10, p20 
Names of pork, §11, p24 
obtained from a side of beef and their 
uses. Table of, §10, p21 
of beef, §10, pl8 

of beef for stewing and corning, §10, p38 
of beef. Method of obtaining, §10, pl8 
of beef. Table of, §10, p21 
of beef. Uses of, §10, p20 
of mutton and lamb. Distinguishing fea- 
tures of, §11, pis 
of mutton and lamb. Method of obtain- 
ing, §11, pis 
of mutton and lamb. Names and uses of, 

§11, pis 
of mutton and lamb, Table of, §11, pl7 
of pork, §11, p24 
of pork, Uses of, §11, p24 
of veal and their uses, §11, p2 
Preparation of veal, §11, p4 
Table of pork, §11, p28 
Table of veal, §11, p4 
Cutting up a. chicken, §12, pI9 

D 

Daikan, §9, p5 

Deep-fat frying. Principles of, §11, p40 

Delmonico steak, §10, p22 

Deviled crab, §13, p57 

lobster, §13, p55 
Diet, Canned fish in the, §13, p33 

Fish in the, §13, pi 

Meat in the, §10, pi 

Salt and smoked fish in the, §13, p31 
Digestibility of clams. Nature and, §13, p47 

of fish, §13, p6 

of oysters, §13, p40 
Drawing a chicken, §12, plS 
Drawn-butter sauce, §13, p20 
Dressing a chicken, §12, pl3 

for salmon mold, §13, p34 
Dry plucking, §12, p5 
Duck, Liver stutling for, §12, p35 

Peanut stuffing for roast, §12, p35 

Preparation of, §12, p24 

Roast, §12, p32 

Spring, §12, pplO, 32 

Young, §12, p32 
Ducks, Selection of, §12, plO 
Dumplings, §10, p40 

or noodles. Chicken stew with, §12, p42 



Economic value of soup, §9, p3 

Economy in the purchase of poultry, §12, p2 

Eel, Fried, §13, p28 

Stewed, §13, p30 
Egg balls, §9, p35 



Egg sauce, §13, pl9 
Eggs and bacon, §11, p34 
Extractives, §10, pp4, 11 

in meat, §10, p7 
Extracts, Meat, §9, p7 
Soup, §9, p7 
Vegetable, §9, p7 



Fat in fish, §13, p4 

in meat, §10, p6 

Trying out suet and other, §10, p44 
Feathers, Pin, §12, p8 
Feeding and care on quality of poultry. 

Influence of, §12, p3 
Fillet, Broiled, §10, p31 

mignon, §10, f32 

of beef, §10, p31 

of flounder, §13, p27 

of venison. Roast, §12, p55 

of whitefish. Baked, §13, p2£ 
Filleting fish, §13, plS 
Finnan haddie. Baked, §13, p32 

haddie. Creamed, §13, p32 
First soup stock, §9, p6 
Fish, §13, pi 

and meat. Relative nutritive value of, 
§13, p5 

and meat. Table showing the compari- 
son of, §13, p5 

Baked, §13, p24 

Boiled, §13, p21 

boiler, §13, p21 

Boning a, §13, pl4 

Broiled, §13, p22 

Carbohydrate in, §13, p4 

chowder, §9, p30 

Cleaning, §13, pll 

Composition and food value of shell, 
§13, p37 

Composition of, §13, p3 

Cooking of, §13, pl7 

Creamed tuna, §13, p33 

croquettes, §13, p35 

Digestibility of, §13, pfi 

Fat in, §13, p4 

Filleting, §13, plS 

Food value of, §13, p4 

Freshness of, §13, pip 

Fried, §13, p28 

in potato nest. Creamed, §13 p3fi 

in the diet, §13, pi 

in the diet. Canned, §13 533 

in the diet. Salt and smoked. §13. p3, 

in the home. Care of, §13, pu 

Left-over, §13, p35 

Mineral matter in, §13, p4 

Planked, §13, p27 

Protein in, §13, p3 



INDEX 



Fish, Purchase of, §13, p7 
Sauces for, §13, pl8 
Scaling a, §13, pl2 
Seasons for shell, §13, p38 
Shell, §13, ppl, 36 
Skinning, §13, pl4 
Steamed, §13, p22 
Stewed, §13, p30 
stock, §9, p7 
Stuffing for, §13, p20 
Table showing composition and food 

value of shell, §13, p38 
Table showing names, seasons, and uses 

of fresh, §13, p8 
Table showing names, seasons, and uses 

of salt and smoked, §13, p9 
Table showing seasons for shell, §13, p38 
with meat. Comparison of, §13, p3 
Flat-bone steak, §10, p24 
Flavoring stock, §9, pl2 
Flounder, Fillet of, §13. p27 
Food, Poultry as a, §12, pi 
Sea, §13, pi 

suitable for the stock pot, §9, p8 
value and composition of beef, §10, p5; 

§13, p5 
value and composition of black bass, 

§13, p5 
value and composition of blueiish, §13, p5 
value and composition of canned salmon, 

§13, p5 
value and composition of carp, §13, p5 
value and composition of catfish, §13, p5 
value and composition of chicken broil- 
ers, §13, p5 
value and composition of clams, §13, p38 
value and composition of crabs, §13, p38 
value and composition of fowl, §13, p5 
value and composition of halibut steak, 

§13, p5 
value and composition of lake trout, 

§13, p5 
value and composition of lamb, §10, p5 
value and composition of leg of lamb, 

§13, p5 
value and composition of lobsters, §13, p38 
value and composition of mutton, §10, p5 
value and composition of oysters, §13, p3S 
value and composition of pork, §10, pS 
value and composition of pork chops, 

§13, pS 
value and composition of red snapper, 

§13, p5 
value and composition of scallops, §13, p38 
value and composition of veal, §10, pS 
value and composition of white£sh, 

§13, pS 
value of fish, §13, p4 

value of iish. Factors determining, §13, p4 
Value of meat as, §10, pi 

WI— C3— 18 



Food value of shell fish. Composition and, 
§13, p37 

value of shell fish. Tables showing com- 
position and, §13, p38 
Forcemeat balls, §9, p35 
Fore quarter of veal, §11, p3 
Fork, Oyster, §13, p44 
Fowl, Composition and food value of, §13, p5 

Definition of, §12, p6 
Fowls, Selection of guinea, §12, pll 
Frankfurters, §11, p39 

Fresh fish. Table showing the names, sea- 
sons, and uses of, §13, p8 

herring, Stewed, §13, p30 

mackerel. Broiled, §13, p23 

pork. Preparation of, §11, p29 
Freshening salt and smoked fish, §13, p31 
Freshness of fish, §13, plO 
Fricassee of chicken, §12, p43 
Fricasseeing applied to meat and fowl, 

§10, pl5 
Fried apples. Cold pork with, §11, p37 

chicken, §12, p27 

chicken. Gravy for, §12, p27 

chicken, Maryland, §12, p28 

chicken with paprika sauce, §12, p28 

clams, §13, p49 

eel, §13, p28 

fish, §13, p28 

oysters, §13, p46 

perch, §13, p28 

scallops, §13, p50 

soft-shelled crabs, §13, p58 
Fritters, Oyster, §13, p47 

Soup, §9, p3S 
Frizzled beef, §10, p47 

Frying and sauteing applied to meat, 
§10, pl3 

chicken, §12, p6 

of croquettes, §11, p42 

Principles of deep-fat, §11, p40 



G 

Gall bladder, §12, pl8 
Game, Definition of, §12, pi 

General description of, §12, p52 

stock, §9, p6 
Garnishes, Soup accompaniments and, §9, p31 
Geese, Selection of, §12, plO 
Gelatine in meat, §10, p6 
Giblets, Cooking of, §12, p46 

of a chicken, §12, pl8 
Glycogen, or muscle sugar, §10, p7 
Goose, Preparation of, §12, p24 

Roast, §12, p32 
Gravy for fried chicken, §12, p27 

Making, §10, p44 
Green-pepper stuffing, §12, p34 
Guinea fowls. Selection of, §12, pll 



INDEX 



H 

Haddock, Baked, §13, p25 
Halibut, Baked, §13, p26 

steak. Composition and food value of, 
§13, p5 

steak. Sauted, §13, p29 
Ham, §11, p34 

Baked, §11, p36 

baked in milk, §11, p36 

Boiled, §11, p36 

Broiled, §11, p35 
Hamburger steak, §10, p29 
Hard-shelled crabs, §13, p57 
Hash, Beef, §10. p46 

Turkey, §12, p48 
Headcheese, §11, p24 
Healthfulness of oysters, §13, p40 
Heart, Stuffed, §10, p43 

sweetbread, §11, p3 
Heavy thick soups, §9, p21 
Herring, Stewed fresh, §13, p30 
Hind quarter of veal, §11, p3 
Hip-bone steak, §10, p24 
Home, Care of fish in the, §13, pll 
Horseradish sauce, §13, pl9 
Household stock, §9, pp6, 19 



Individual lamb pies, §11, p23 

Influence of feeding and care on quality of 

poultry, §12, p3 
Iron, Timbale, §11, p44 



Jellied chicken, §12, p45 

veal, §11, p8 

veal. Left-over, §11, pll 
Julienne soup, §9, p21 

K 

Keeping stock, §9, pl5 
Kidneys, §11, plO 
Kouskous, §9, p5 
Krishara, §9, pS 



Lake trout, Composition and food value 

of, §13, p5 
Lamb, §11, pl2 
and mutton chops, §11, p20 
and mutton cuts, Distinguishing features 

of, §11, pl5 
and mutton cuts. Names and uses of, 

§11, pis 
and mutton. Left-over, §11, p21 
and mutton stews, §11, p21 
Comparison of mutton and, §11, pl2 
Composition and food value of, §10, p5 
Cooking of mutton and, §11, pl7 



Lamb, Crown roast of, §11, pl9 

cuts, Method of obtaining mutton and, 
§11, pl5 

cuts. Table of mutton and, §11, pl7 

Food value and composition of leg ot, 
§13, pS 

on toast. Minced, §11, p22 

or mutton. Scalloped, §11, p22 

pies, Individual, §11, p23 

Rack of, §11, plS 

Roast leg of, §11, pl7 

Saddle of, §11, pl3 

Spring, §11, pl3 

Turkish, §11, p21 
Lard, Leaf, §11, p24 
Larding, §11, p33 
Leaf lard, §11, p24 
Lebaba, §9, p5 
Left-over beef, §10, p45 

-over fish, §13, p35 

-over jellied veal, §11, pll 

-over lamb and mutton, §11, p21 

-over pork, §11, p37 

-over poultry, §12, p46 

-over veal, §11, plO 
Leg of venison. Roast, §12, p56 
Lemon cream sauce, §13, pl8 
Live chickens, §12, p9 
Liver and bacon, §11, plO 

stuffing for roast duck, §12, p35 
Liverwurst, §11, p39 
Loaf, Beef, §10, p37 
Lobster a la Newburg, §13, p55 

cocktail, §13, p54 

croquettes, §13, pS6 

Deviled, §13, pSS 

from the shell. Removing, §13, p52 

Scalloped, §13, p54 
Lobsters, Composition and food value of, 
§13, p38 

crabs, and shrimp, §13, p50 

Distinguishing features of, §13, p51 

Preparation of, §13, pSl 
Loin, Steaks obtained from beef, §10, p22 
Lynn Havens, §13, p41 

M 

Mackerel, Broiled fresh, |13, p23 

Sauted salt, §13, p32 
Making gravy, §10, p+4 

soup, §9, p9 
Market, Preparation of poultry for, §12, p4 
Maryland fried chicken, §12. p28 
Meaning and use of soup stock, §9, pS 
Meat as food. Value of, §10, pi 

Basting of, §10, p36 

Carbohydrate in, §10, p7 

Care of, §10, p8 

Comparison of fish with, §12, p3 

Cooking of, §10, pll 



INDEX 



vu 



Meat, Creamed crab, §13, p58 

cuts, Names and uses of, §10, p20 

Definition of, §10, pi 

extracts, §9, p7 

Extractives in, §10, p7 

Fat in, §10, p6 

Gelatine in, §10, p6 

in the diet, §10, pi 

in the home. Care of, §10, plO 

in the market. Care of, §10, plO 

Methods of cooking, §10, pll 

Minerals in, §10, p7 

preparations, Sausages and, §11, p39 

Protein in, §10, p4 

Purchase of, §10, p8 

Purposes of cooking, §10, pll 

Relative nutritive value of fish and, 
§13, pS 

Serving and carving of, §11, p38 

Structure and composition of, §10, p3 

Time required for cooking, §10, pl5 

used for soup making, §9, p9 

Water in, §10, p7 
Meats, Points to consider in buying, §10, p3 

Time table for cooking, §10, pl6 
Method of obtaining beef cuts, §10, pl8 

of obtaining mutton and lamb cuts, §11, pl5 
Methods of cooking meat, §10, pll 
Mexican beef, §10, p45 
Mignon, Fillet, §10, p32 
Milk, Ham baked in, §11, p36 
Minced lamb on toast, §11, p22 
Mineral matter in fish, §13, p4 
Minerals in meat, §10, p7 
Minestra, §9, p5 
Mint sauce, §11, pl8 
Mock chicken salad, §11, p37 
Mock duck, or rolled steak, §10, p28 
Mold, Salmon, §13, p34 
Mollusks, §13, p36 
Mulligatawny soup, §9, pp5, 22 
Muscle sugar. Glycogen or, §10, p7 
Mushroom sauce, §13, p20 
Mutton, §11, pl2 

and lamb chops, §11, p20 

and lamb. Comparison .of, §11, pl2 

and lamb. Cooking of, §11, pl7 

and lamb cuts. Distinguishing features 
of. §11, pis 

and lamb cuts. Method of obtaining, §11, 
pis 

and lamb cuts. Names and uses of, 

§11, pis 
and lamb cuts. Table of, §11, pl7 
Composition and food value of, §10, p5 
Left-over lamb and, §11, p21 
Rack of, §11, pis 
Roast leg of, §11, pl7 
Roast saddle of, §11, pl9 
Saddle of, §11, plS 



Mutton, Scalloped lamb or, §11, p22 
stews. Lamb and, §11, p21 

Jf 

Noodle soup, §9, p23 

Noodles, Chicken stew with dumplings or, 
§12, p42 
Vegetable soup with, §9, p24 
Nut sauce, §13, pl9 
Nutritive value of fish. Relative, §13, p5 

O 

Onion soup, Cream-of-, §9, p2& 
Opening clams, §13, p48 

oysters, §13, p42 
Organs, Veal, §11, pp3, 9 
Ox-tail soup, §9, p22 
Oyster, Adductor muscle of an, §13, p42 

cocktails, §13, p43 

crabs, §13, p57 

fork, §13, p44 

fritters, §13, p47 

pie, §13, p46 

stew, §13, p44 

stuffing, §12, p34 

Valves of an, §13, p42 
Oysters, clams, and scallops, §13, p39 

Composition of, §13, p39 

Creamed, §13, p4S 

Digestibility of, §13, p40 

Food value of, §13, p38 

Fried, §13, p46 

Healthfulness of, §13, p40 

Important points in cooking, §13, p41 

Opening, §13, p42 

Preparation of, §13, p39 

Purchasing, §13, p41 

Raw, §13, p43 

Scalloped, §13, p4S 



Pan-broiled steak, §10, p27 

-broiled veal steaks or cutlets, §11, p5 

broiling. Cooking meat by, §10, pl2 
Paprika sauce. Fried chicken with, §12, p28 
Partridge, Selection of, §12, pl2 
Pastry strips, §9, p34 
Pate de fois gras, §12, plO 
Patties, Rice and meat, §11, p43 

Salmon, §13^ p3S 
Pea soup, Cream-of-, §9, p27 
Peanut stuffing for roast duck, §12, p3S 
Perch, Fried, §13. p28 
Pheasant, partridge, and quail, §12, pl2 

Selection of, §12, pl2 
Pickerel, Sauted, §13, p29 
Pickled pig's feet, §11, p4C 

tongue, §10, p42 
Pie, Beef, §10. p46 



VIU 



INDEX 



Pie, Chicken, §12, p43 

Cottage, §10, p46 

Oyster, §13, p46 

Rabbit, §12, p54 
Pies, Individual lamb, §11, p23 
Pig, Roast, §11, p30 
Pigeons, Selection of, §12, pll 
Pig's feet. Pickled, §11, p40 
Pigs in blankets, §13, p47 
Pin feathers, §12, p8 
Planked fish, §13, p27 

steak, §10, p30 
Plucking a chicken, §12, pl3 

Dry, §12, pS 
Poisoning, Ptomaine, §13, p51 
Ponhasse, §11, p40 
Pork, §11, p23 

and cabbage. Scalloped, §11, p37 

chops and tomato sauce, §11, p31 

chops. Composition and food value of, 
§13, pS 

Composition and food value of, §10, p5 

Cooking of, §11, p29 

Crown roast of, §11, p30 

Cuts of, §11, p24 

cuts. Table of, §11, p28 

cuts. Uses of, §11, p24 

General characteristics of, §11, p23 

Left-over. §11, p37 

Preparation of cured, §11, p32 

Preparation of fresh, §11, p29 

Roast, §11, p29 

Salt, §11, pp27, 33 

sausage, §11, p32 

Sauted or broiled, §11, p31 

Sauted tenderloin of, §11, p31 

Tenderloin of, §11, p27 

with fried apples. Cold, §11, p37 
Porterhouse roast, §10, p33 

steak, §10, p24 
Pot-au-feu, §9, pl3 

-roasted beef, §10, p37 

Stock, §9, p7 
Potato border. Broiled scrod with, §13, p23 

chowder, §9, p30 

nest. Creamed fish in, §13, p36 

soup, Cream-of-, §9, p26 
Potpie, Veal, §11, p7 
Potroka, §9, p5 
Poulards, §12, p4 
Poultry as a food, §12, pi 

Broiled, §12, p25 

Classification of, §12, p3 

Cold-storage, §12, p5 

Composition of, §12, pl2 

Definition of, §12, pi 

Effect of sex on quality of, §12, p4 

for cooking. Preparation of, §12, pl3 

for the market, Preparation of, §12, p4 

Indication of cold-storage, §12, p6 



Poultry, Left-over, §12, p46 

other than chicken, §12, p9 

Selection of, §12, p2 

Serving and carving, §12, p49 

Stuffing for roast, §12, p33 

Table for the selection of, §12, pll 

with rice. Baked, §12, p49 
Preparation of beef organs, §10, p42 

of beefsteak, §10, p22 

of chicken, §12, pl3 

of clams, §13, p47 

of crabs, §13, p56 

of cured pork, §11, p32 

of duck, §12, p24 

of fresh pork, §11, p29 

of goose, §12, p24 

of lobsters, §13, p51 

of oysters, §13, p39 

of poultry for cooking, §12, pl3 

of poultry for the market, §12, p4 

of roasts, §10, p31 

of scallops, §13, p49 

of shrimp, §13, p58 

of small birds, §12, p24 

of stews and corned beef, §10, p38 

of sweetbreads, §11, p9 

of turkey, §12, p23 

of veal cuts, §11, p4 
Preparing chicken feet, §12, p23 

rabbit for cooking, §12, p53 
Principles of deep-fat frying, §11, p40 
Processes involved in making stock, §9, pll 
Protein in fish, §13, p3 

in meat, §10, p4 
Ptomaine poisoning, §13, p51 
Purchase of fish, §13, p7 

of meat, §10, p8 

of poultry. Economy in the, §12, p2 
Purchasing oysters, §13, p41 
Puree, Chestnut, §9, p29 

Split-pea, §9, p29 
Purees, §9, ppS, 29 
Purpose of soup in the meal, §9, pi 
Purposes of cooking meat, §10, pll 

Quail, Selection of, §12, pl2 
Quality in chicken. General marks of good, 
§12, p7 
of poultry. Effect of sex on, §12, p4 
of poultry. Influence of feeding and care 
on, §12, p3 

R 
Rabbit for cooking. Preparing, §12, p53 
pie, §12, pS4 
Roast, §12, p54 
Sauted, §12, pS4 
Rack of lamb, §11, plS 

of mutton, §11, pis 
Radishes and celery, §9, p32 



INDEX 



IX 



Raw clams, §13, p48 

oysters, §13, p43 
Red snapper, Food value and composition 

of, §13, p5 
Relative nutritive value of fish, §13, p5 
Removing grease from soup, §9, pl4 

lobster from the shell, §13, p52 
Rib roast. Standing, §10, p33 

roasts, §10, p32 
Rice and meat patties, §11, p43 

Baked poultry with, §12, p49 

Chicken with, §12, p48 

Creamed salmon with, §13, p35 

Scalloped veal with, §11, pll 

stuffing, §12, p34 
Rigor mortis, §10, p6; §12, pl4 
Roast beef, §10, p34 

chicken, §12, p29 

duck, §12, p32 

duck. Liver stuffing for, §12, p25 

duck. Peanut stuffing for, §12, p3S 

fillet of venison, §12, p55 

goose, §12, p32 

leg of Iamb, §11, pl7 

leg of mutton, §11, pl7 

leg of venison, §12, pS6 

of lamb. Crown, §11, pl9 

of pork. Crown, §11, p30 

pig, §11, p30 

pork, §11, p29 

Porterhouse, §10, p33 

poultry, Stuffing for, §12, p33 

rabbit, §12, p54 

saddle of mutton, §11, pl9 

small birds, §12, p33 

Standing rib, §10, p33 

turkey, §12, p31 
Roasting, §10, pl2 

chicken, §12, p6 
Roasts, Chuck, §10, p32 

Preparation of, §10, p31 

Rib, §10, p32 

Rump, §10, p34 

Veal, §11, p6 
Roe, Broiled shad, §13, p23 
Rolled steak, or mock duck, §10, p28 

steak. Stuffing for, §10, p28 
Rolls, Veal, §11, plO 
Rump roasts, §10, p34 

S 
Saddle of lamb, §11, pl5 

of mutton, §11, pis 

of mutton. Roast, §11, pl9 
Salad, Chicken, §12, p47 

Mock chicken, §11, p37 

Veal, §11, pll 
Salmon, Boiled, §13, p32 

Composition and food value of canned, 
§13, p5 



Salmon mold, §13, p34 

mold. Dressing for, §13, p34 

patties, §13, p35 

with rice. Creamed, §13, p3S 
Salt and smoked fish. Freshening, §13, p31 

and smoked fish in the diet, §13, p31 

and smoked fish, Table showing names, 
seasons, and uses of, §13, p9 

mackerel, Sauted, §13, p32 

pork, §11, pp27, 33 
Sauce, Drawn-butter, §13, p20 

Egg, §13, pl9 

for broiled venison, §12, p55 

Fried chicken with paprika, §12, p28 

Horseradish, §13, pl9 

Lemon cream, §13, pl8 

Mint, §11, pl8 

Mushroom, §13, p20 

Nut, §13, pl9 

Spanish, §13, pl9 

Thin white, §9, p26 

Tomato, §13, pl9 
Sauces for fish, §13, pl8 
Sausage, Pork, §11, p32 
Sausages and meat preparations, §11, p39 
Sauted fish, §13, p28 

halibut steak, §13, p29 

or broiled pork, §11, p31 

pickerel, §13, p29 

rabbit, §12, p54 

salt mackerel, §13, p32 

smelts, §13, p29 

tenderloin of pork, §11, p31 
Sauteing and frying, §10, pl3 
Scaling a fish, §13, pl2 
Scalloped lamb or mutton, §11, p22 

lobster, §13, pS4 

oysters, §13, p45 

pork with cabbage, §11, p37 

veal with rice, §11, pll 
Scallops, Baked, §13, p50 

Composition and food value of, §13, p38 

Fried, §13, p50 

Oysters, clams, and, §13, p39 

Preparation of, §13, p49 
Scrapple, §11, pp24, 40 

Scrod with potato border. Broiled, §13, p23 
Sea food, §13, pi 

Seasons, and uses of fresh fish, Table show- 
ing the names, §13, p8 

and uses of smoked fish. Table showing 
the names, §13, p9 

for shell fish, §13, p38 

for shell fish. Table showing, §13, p38 
Second soup stock, §9, p6 
Selection of chicken, §12, p6 

of ducks, §12, plO 

of poultry, §12, p2 

of turkeys, §12, p9 
Serving and carving meat, §11, p38 



INDEX 



Serving and carving poultry, §12, p49 

soup, §9, pl6 
Shad roe. Broiled, §13, p23 
Shell fish, §13, ppl, 36 

fish. Composition and food value of, §13, 
p37 

fish. Seasons for, §13, p38 

fish. Tables showing composition and 
food value of, §13, p38 

fish. Table showing seasons for, §13, p38 
Shrimp a La Salle, §13, p59 

Creamed, §13, p59 

General characteristics of lobsters, crabs, 
and, §13, p50 

Lobsters, crabs, and, §13, p50 

Nature of, §13, p58 

Preparation of, §13, p58 
Simmering, or stewing, §10, pl4 
Singeing a chicken, §12, pl4 
Sirloin steak, §10, p2S 
Skinning fish, §13, pl4 
Skirt steak, §10, p29 
Small birds. Preparation of, §12, p24 

birds. Roast, §12, p33 
Smelts, Sauted, §13, p29 
Smoked fish. Freshening salt and, §13, p31 

fish in the diet. Salt and, §13, p31 

fish. Table showing the names, seasons, 
and uses of, §13, p9 
Soft-shelled crabs, §13, p57 

-shelled crabs. Fried, §13, p58 
Soljinka, §9, p5 
Soup, §9, pi 

accompaniments and garnishes, §9, p31 

accompaniments. Recipes for, §9, pl8 

and its place in the meal, §9, pi 

and soup accompaniments, §9, pl8 

Clearing of, §9, pl4 

Cooking meat ior, §9, pll 

Cream-of-asparagus, §9, p27 

Cream-of-corn, §9, p26 

Cream-of-onion, §9, p28 

Cream-of-pea, §9, p27 

Cream-of-potato, §9, p26 

Cream-of-spinach, §9, p27 

Cream-of-tomato, §9, p28 

Definition of, §9, pi 

Economic value of, §9, p3 

extracts, §9, p7 

fritters, §9, p35 

General classes of, §9, p3 

in the "^eal, Purpose of, §9, pi 

in the meal. Value of, §9, p2 

Julienne, §9, p21 

making. Meat used for, §9, p9 

Making of, §9, p9 

making. Vegetables used for, §9, plO 

Mulligatawny, §9, p22 

Noodle, §9, p23 

Ox-tail, §9, p2i 



Soup, Principal ingredients of, §9, p9 

Recipes for, §9, pl8 

Removing grease from, §9, pl4 

Serving, §9, pl6 

stock. Meaning and use of, §9, pS 

stock. Uses of, §9, pS 

stock. Varieties of, §9, p6 

Thickening, §9, pl4 

Value of, §9, pi 
Soups, Classification of, §9, p3 

Clear, §9, p4 

Cream, §9, pp4, 25 

denoting consistency. Classes of, §9, p4 

Heavy thick, §9, p21 

Thick, §9, p4 

typical of particular countries, §9, p5 
Spanish sauce, §13, pl9 

stew, §11, p22 
Spinach soup, Cream-of-, §9, pl7 
Split-pea puree, §9, p29 
Spring duck, §12, pplO, 32 

lamb, §11, pl3 
Squabs, §12, pp3, 11 
Squirrel, Broiled, §12, p55 
Standing rib roast, §10, p33 
Steak, Club, §10, p24 

Delmonico, §10, p22 

Flat-bone, §10, p24 

Hamburger, §10, p29 

Hip-bone, §10, p24 

or cutlets. Veal, §11, pS 

Pan-broiled, §10, p27 

Planked, §10, p30 

Porterhouse, §10, p24 

Sauted halibut, §13, p29 

Sirloin, §10, p25 

Skirt, §10, p29 

Stuffing for rolled, §10, p28 

Swiss, §10, p29 

Vegetables served with, §10, p30 
Steaks obtained from the beef loin, §10, 
p22 

obtained from the round, §10, p2S 

Preparation of beef, §10, p22 
Steamed clams, §13, p48 

fish, §13, p2is 
Stew, Beef, §10, p38 

Oyster, §13, p44 

Spanish, §11, p22 

Veal, §H, p8 
Stewed eel, §13, p30 

fish, §13, p30 

fresh herring, §13, p30 
Stewing and corning. Beef for, §10, p38 

or simmering, §10, pl4 
Stews and corned beef, Preparation of. 
§10, p38 

Lamb and mutton, §11, p21 
Sticks, Bread, §9, p34 
Stock, Bone, §9, p6 



INDEX 



XI 



Stock, First, §9, p6 

Fish, §9, p7 

flavoring, §9, pl2 

for clear soup or bouillon, §9, pl9 

for soup, §9, pS 

Game, §9, p6 

Household, §9, pp6, 19 

Keeping, §9, pl5 

Meaning and use of soup, §9, p5 

pot, §9, p7 

pot. Food suitable for the, §9, p8 

pot. Nature, use, and care of, ^J, p7 

Second, §9, p6 

Varieties of soup, §9, p6 

Vegetable, §9, p6 

White, §9, p20 
Stocks and clear soups, §9, pl9 
Stomach sweetbread, §11, p3 
Strips, Pastry, §9, p34 

Structure and composition of meat, §10, p3 
Stuffed heart, §10, p43 

veal breast, §11, p7 
Stuffing, Bread, §12, p33 

Chestnut, §12, p34 

Cracker, §12, p33 

for fish, §13, p20 

for roast duck. Liver, §12, p35 

for roast poultry, §12, p33 

for rolled steak, §10, p28 

for veal, §11, p7 

Green-pepper, §12, p34 

Oyster, §12, p34 

Rice, §12, p34 
Suet, Trying out, §10, p44 
Sweetbread croquettes, §11, p43 

Heart, §11, p3 

Stomach, §11, p3 

Throat, §11, p3 
Sweetbreads, §11, p3 

Broiled, §11, p9 

Creamed, §11, p9 

Preparation of, §11, p9 
Swiss steak, §10, p29 

T 
Table for the selection of poultry, §12, pll 
of cuts obtained from a side of beef and 

their uses, §10, p21 
of mutton and lamb cuts, §11, pl7 
of pork cuts, §11, p2S 
of veal cuts, §11, p4 
showing composition and food value of 

shell fish, §13, p38 
showing seasons for shell fish, §13, p38 
showing the comparison of fish and meat, 

§13, p5 
showing the names, seasons, and uses 

of fresh fish, §13, p8 
showing the names, seasons, and uses of 

smoked fish, §13, p9 



Tarhonya, §9, p5 

Tenderloin of beef, §10, pp21, 24, 31 

of pork, §11, p27 

of pork. Sauted, §11, p31 
Thick soups, §9, p4 
Thickening soup, §9, pl4 
Thin white sauce, §9, p26 
Throat sweetbread, §11, p3 
Timbale-case batter, §11, p44 

cases, §11, p42 

iron, §11, p44 
Time required for cooking meat, §10, pl5 
Tissue, Connective, §10, p4 
Toast, Minced lamb on, §11, p22 
Tomato bouillon, §9, p21 

sauce, §13, pl9 

sauce. Pork chops and, §11, p31 

soup, Cream-of-, §9, p28 
Tomatoes, Bacon with, §11, p34 
Tongue, Boiled. §10, p42 

Braized, §10, p43 

Picltled, §10, p42 
Trout, Food value of lake, §13, p5 
Trying out suet, §10, p44 
Tuna fish, Creamed, §13, p33 
Turkey hash, §12, p48 

Preparation of, §12, p23 

Roast, §12, p31 
Turkeys, Selection of, §12, p9 
Turkish lamb, §11, p21 

i; 

Use of soup stock, §9, p5 

of stock pot, §9, p7 
Uses of beef cuts, §10, p20 

of fresh fish. Table showing the names, 
seasons, and, §13, pS 

of lamb and mutton cuts, §11, pl5 

of smoked fish, Table showing the names, 

seasons, and, §13, p9 

of veal cuts, §11, p2 



Value of fish, Food, §13, p4 

of fish, Relative nutritive, §13, pS 

of meat as food, §10, pt 

of shell fish, Tables showing composition 
and food, §13, p38 

of soup in the meal, §9, p2 
Valves of an oyster, §13, p42 
Varieties and uses of soup stock, §9, p5 

of soup stock, §9, p6 
Veal, Bob, §11, pi 

breast. Stuffed, §11, p7 

chops, §11, p4 

Composition and food value of, §10, p5 

Cooking of, §11, p4 

croquettes, §11, p42 

cuts and their preparation, §11, p4 

cuts and their uses, §11, p2 



INDEX 



Veal cuts, Table of, §11, p4 
cutlets in brown sauce, §11, p5 
Fore quarter of, §11, p3 
Hind quarter of, §11, p3 
Jellied, §11, p8 
kidneys, §11, plO 
Left-over, §11, plO 
Left-over jellied, §11, pll 
Nature of, §11, pi 
on biscuits. Creamed, §11, pll 
organs, §11, pp3, 9 
potpie, §11, p7 
roasts, §11, p6 
rolls, §11, plO 
salad, §11, pll 

steak or cutlets. Pan-broiled, §11, p5 
stew, §11, p8 
Stuffing for, §11, p7 
sweetbreads. Broiled, §11, p9 
sweetbreads. Creamed, §11, p9 
with rice. Scalloped, §11, pll 



Vegetable extracts, §9, p7 

soup with noodles, §9, p34 

stock, §9, p6 ^ 

Vegetables served with steak, 810. P 

used for soup making, §9, pl" 
Venison, Broiled, §12, pSS 

Cuts of, §12, p55 

Roast fillet of, §12, p55 

Roast leg of, §12, p56 

Sauce for, §12, p55 

W 

Water in meat, §10, p7 

White stock, §9, p20 

Whitefish, Baked fillet of, §13, p26 

Composition and food value of, §13, p5 
Wing tips of chicken, §12, p23 



Yearling, Meaning of, §11, pl3 
Young, or spring, duck, §12, p32 







■!»• 




ifil^^fp^^W;;:;-^^ 



•',''/•■'■ 




tt7> 



mm 




ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York Statk Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 

TX 651.W87 

V.2 

Woman's Institute library of cookery. 




3 1924 003 570 581 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003570581 



WOMAN'S Institute 
Library of Cookery 




MILK, BUTTER. AND CHEESE 

EGGS 

VEGETABLES 



EGGS ^^ 2^ 



WOMAN'S INSTITUTE 
OF DOMESTIC ARTS AND SCIENCES. Inc- 

\ SCRANTON, PA. 



1^ 

65/ 
317758 



Milk, Butter, and Cheese, Parts 1 and 2: Copyright, 1918, by Ikteinational Eddcatiohai. 

Publishing Coufany. 
Eggs: Copyright, 1918, by Inteknationai. Educational Publishing Company. 
Vegetables, Parts 1 and 2: Copyright, 1918, by Inteknatiohai. Educationai. Puslishimc 

COUFANY. 

Copyright in Great Britain 



All rights reserved 
Printed in U. S. A. 



Press op 
International Textbook Company 

ScKANTON, Pa. 9<J<>60 



PRLFACL 



This volume, which is the second of the Woman's Institute Library 
of Cookery, deals with such essentials of diet as the dairy prod- 
ucts — milk, butter, and cheese — the protein food, eggs, and the 
energy-producing nutrients, vegetables. 

In Milk, Butter, and Cheese, Parts 1 and 2, are explained the place 
that milk occupies in the diet, its composition, grades, and the dishes 
for which it is used ; the purchase, care, and use of butter and butter 
substitutes ; and the characteristics, care, and varieties of both domes- 
tic and imported cheeses, as well as a number of excellent recipes for 
cheese dishes. A luncheon menu, in which a cheese dish is substi- 
tuted for meat, is of interest in this connection, for it shows the 
housewife, early in her studies, not only how to combine dishes to 
produce a balanced meal, but also how to make up a menu in which 
meat is not needed. 

In Eggs are discussed the nutritive value of eggs, the ways in 
which to select, preserve, cook, and serve them, and how to utilize 
left-over eggs. So many uses have eggs in the diet and so nour- 
ishing is this food that too much attention cannot be paid to its 
preparation. In this lesson, also, is given a breakfast menu to 
afford practice in preparing several simple dishes usually served in 
this meal. 

In Vegetables, Parts 1 and 2, every variety of vegetable is dis- 
cussed as to food value, preparation, place in the meal, and proper 
methods of serving. With such a fund of knowledge, the housewife 
will be well equipped to give pleasing variety to her meals. 

In addition to the instruction in these matters, there are a large 
number of illustrations, which make clear the important details in 
every process employed and in many recipes show certain steps as 
well as the finished result. With such detailed information, it is our 
desire that as many of the recipes as possible be tried, for it is only 
through constant practice that the rules and principles of cookery 



iv PREFACE 

will become thoroughly instilled in the mind. Nothing is of more 
value to the housewife than such a knowledge of food and its prep- 
aration, for, as every one knows, proper diet is the chief requisite of 
good health. 

To be of the greatest assistance to the woman in the home is the 
purpose of these volumes — ^to relieve her household tasks of much 
of their drudgery and to help her come to a realization of the oppor- 
tunity for good that is hers. In no better way can she create happi- 
ness and contentment in her home than by preparing appetizing, 
nutritious meals and serving them in the most attractive manner. 



CONTENTS 



Milk, Butter, and Cheese Section Page 

Milk in the Diet 6 1 

Composition of Milk 6 3 

Products Obtained from Milk 6 6 

Characteristics of Wholesome Milk 6 9 

Grades of Clean Milk 6 14 

Preserved Milk 6 19 

Milk in the Home 6 20 

Recipes for Milk Dishes and Sauces 6 27 

Economical Use of Butter 7 1 

Flavor and Composition of Butter 7 2 

Purchase and Care of Butter 7 3 

Cooking With Butter 7 4 

Serving Butter 7 5 

Butter Substitutes 7 7 

Characteristics and Care of Cheese 7 8 

Imported Cheese 7 12 

Domestic Cheese 7 14 

Serving Cheese 7 18 

Recipes for Cheese Dishes 7 18 

Luncheon Menu 7 27 

Eggs 

Description of Eggs and Place in the Diet 8 1 

Nutritive Value of Eggs 8 3 

Selection of Eggs 8 6 

Preservation of Eggs 8 13 

Cooking of Eggs 8 18 

Serving of Eggs , 8 23 

Egg Recipes 8 25 

Use of Left-Over Eggs 8 39 

Breakfast Menu 8 40 

V 



vi CONTENTS 

Vegetables Section Page 

Variety in Vegetables 14 1 

Structure, Composition, and Food Value 14 5 

Purchase and Care of Vegetables 14 10 

Classification of Vegetables 14 13 

Methods of Preparing and Cooking Vegetables. .14 15 

Sauces for Vegetables 14 18 

Asparagus and Its Preparation 14 20 

Beans and Their Preparation 14 23 

Beets and Their Preparation 14 33 

Brussels Sprouts and Their Preparation 14 35 

Cabbage and Its Preparation 14 37 

Carrots and Their Preparation 14 43 

Cauliflower and Its Preparation 14 45 

Celery and Its Preparation 14 47 

Corn and Its Preparation 14 49 

Cucumbers and Their Preparation 14 54 

Eggplant and Its Preparation 14 55 

French Artichokes and Their Preparation 14 57 

Greens and Their Preparation 15 1 

Jerusalem Artichokes and Their Preparation. ... 15 10 

Kohlrabi and Its Preparation 15 10 

Lentils and Their Preparation 15 12 

Mushrooms and Their Preparation 15 13 

Okra and Its Preparation 15 16 

Onions arid Their Preparation 15 17 

Parsnips and Their Preparation 15 22 

Peas and Their Preparation IS 22 

Peppers and Their Preparation 15 27 

White Potatoes and Their Preparation 15 29 

Sweet Potatoes and Their Preparation 15 38 

Radishes and Their Preparation 15 40 

Salsify and Its Preparation 15 41 

Squash and Its Preparation 15 42 

Tomatoes and Their Preparation 15 45 

Turnips and Their Preparation 15 48 

Vegetable Combinations 15 49 

Serving Vegetables 15 52 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 

(PART 1) 



MILK 



MILK IN THE DIET 

1. As is well understood, milk is the liquid that is secreted by 
the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their 
young. The word milk as it is commonly used, however, refers to 
coiifs milk, because such milk is employed to a greater extent as 
human food than the milk from any other animal. Cow's milk in its 
perfectly fresh raw state is a yellowish-white, opaque fluid, called 
whole milk, and, as is well known, possesses a distinctly sweet taste 
and characteristic odor. When such milk is allowed to stand for 
some time without being disturbed, it separates into two distinct 
layers, an upper and a lower one. The upper layer, which is lighter 
than the lower one and occupies a smaller space, consists largely of 
globules of fat and is called cream; the lower layer, which is white 
or bluish-white in color and is composed of water, solids, and pro- 
tein, is, when separated from the cream, called skim milk. 

2. As an article of diet, milk is very important, because its sole 
function in nature is to serve as food. It is required by the infant ; 
it is needed in the diet of all growing children; and it is desirable 
in the preparation of dishes for both young and old. 

Milk is used to such a great extent because it fills many of the 
requirements of an ideal food. It is generally liked, requires little 
or no time for preparation, agrees with the majority of persons when 
used properly, and contains substances that supply energy and build 
and repair tissue. Still, it does not contain these substances in such 
proportions as to make it an ideal or exclusive article of diet for 
adults, and it must often be modified to suit the needs of infants, 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTIRNATrONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBUISHINS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§6 

WI— C2-» 



2 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

because it is ideal for only the young of the species for which it is 
intended. Therefore, while milk is often called a perfect food, in 
reality it is perfect for only the calf. When it is desired for the 
feeding of a very young child, it must be changed to meet the require- 
ments before it can be used with good results. 

3. So important is milk as an article of food that, outside of the 
purely rural districts, producing the milk supply is a business of 
considerable importance. This is due to the fact that the purity of 
milk must be constantly safeguarded in order that clean, safe milk 
may be provided for the countless numbers that depend on it. In 
fact, milk undoubtedly bears a closer relation to public health than 
any other food. To produce an adequate amount of clean, safe, 
pure milk is one of the food problems of the city and country alike. 
In the city much of the difficulty is overcome by the ordinances that 
provide standards of composition and cleanliness, as well as inspec- 
tion to insure them ; but such ordinances are rarely provided for in 
villages and country districts. 

When there is no law to prevent it, unclean milk is sometimes used 
in the manufacture of butter and cheese, but when this happens, 
great injustice, if not positive harm, is done to the consumers of 
these articles. Then, too, unless milk is carefully inspected, tubercu- 
lar milk is liable to be used in the making of butter, and such a 
condition will cause the spreading of tuberculosis as readily as the 
use of the contaminated milk itself. 

4. With its various products, milk helps to form a very large 
part of the dietary in most homes, but while nothing can take the 
place of this food and while it is high in food value, there seems 
to be a general tendency to think of it as an addition to the bill of 
fare, rather than as a possible substitute for more expensive food. 
For instance, milk is very often served as a beverage in a meal in 
which the quantity of meat or other protein foods is not reduced. 
From an economical standpoint, as well as from the point of view of 
the needs of the body, this is really extravagant, for milk is itself 
largely a protein food. The serving of a glass of milk or of a dish 
that contains generous quantities of milk offers the housewife an 
opportunity to cut down considerably the allowance of meat and 
eggs. Because of this fact and because milk and its products may be 
used to add nutritive value to a food, to give variety, and to improve 
flavor, they deserve considerable study on the part of the housewife. 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 3 

5. Since milk may be used in such a variety of ways, it may be 
easily included in the dietary for the family. Being liquid in form, 
it may always be served without any preparation as a beverage or 
with other beverages, cereals, and fruits. It also has numerous other 
uses, being employed in the making of sauces for vegetables and 
meats, in the place of stock for soups, and as the liquid for bread, 
cakes, puddings, custards, and many frozen desserts. Because of 
its extensive use, every housewife not only should know how to buy 
milk and care for it, but should be familiar with its composition, so 
that she may determine whether or not it suits the needs of her 
family. In addition, she should know the effect of heat on milk 
and the various methods of preparation if she would be able to judge 
what food combinations can be used with milk. 



COMPOSITION OF MILK 

6. As milk is usually taken into the body in liquid form, the 
common tendency is to regard it as a beverage, rather than as an 
important source of nourishing food material. However, a knowl- 
edge of its composition, as well as the fact that milk becomes a 
solid food in the stomach and must then be dissolved in the process 
of digestion, will serve to show that milk contains solids. That it 
possesses all the elements required to sustain life and promote health 
is proved by the fact that a child may live for months on milk ^lone 
and during this time increase in weight. 

7. The solids contained in milk are proteins, fat, carbohydrate 
in the form of sugar, and mineral salts, besides which, of course, 
water occurs in large quantities. The sugar and fat of milk serve 
as fuel ; the mineral salts are chiefly valuable for the growth of bones 
and teeth and for their effect on the liquids of the body ; and the 
proteins, like the fat and sugar, serve as fuel, but they also make 
and repair the muscular tissues of the body. 

In considering the food substances of milk, it will be well to note 
also that they vary according to the breed, feeding, and individual 
characteristics of the cow. Jerseys and Guernseys give milk rich 
in fat and total solids, and while Holstein cows give a greater quan- 
tity of milk, such milk has a smaller proportion of fat and total 
solids. As a rule, though, the composition of milk may be considered 
as approximately 3.3 per cent, protein, 4 per cent, fat, 5 per cent. 



4 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

carbohydrate, and .7 per cent, mineral matter, making a total of 
13 per cent. This indicates the quantity of actual food material in 
milk, the remainder, or 87 per cent., being water. 

8. Protein in Milk. — Because of the double usefulness of 
protein— to serve as fuel and to make and repair muscular tissue — 
this element is regarded as an important ingredient of milk. The 
protein in milk is called casein. The opaque whiteness of milk is 
largely due to the presence of this substance. As long as milk 
remains sweet, the lime salts it contains hold this casein in solution ; 
but when it sours, the salts are made soluble and the casein thickens, 
or coagulates. In addition to casein, milk contains a small amount of 
protein in the form of albumin. This substance, upon being heated, 
coagulates and causes the formation of the skin that is always found 
on the top of milk that has been heated. The skin thus formed con- 
tains everything that is found in milk, because, as it forms, casein is 
dried with it and sugar and fat, too, are caught and held there. It is 
the protein of milk and its characteristic coagulation that are made 
use of in the making of cheese. In cooking, the protein of milk is 
probably more affected than any of the other substances, but the 
degree to which the digestion of milk is thus affected is not definitely 
known, this being a much disputed question. 

9. Fat in Milk. — The other substance in milk that serves as 
fuel, or to produce energy, is fat. It occurs in the form of tiny 
particles, each surrounded by a thin covering and suspended in the 
liquid. Such a mixture, which is called an emulsion, is the most 
easily digested form in which fat is found. The fat in milk varies 
more than the other food substances, it being sometimes as low as 
2 per cent, and again as high as 6 per cent. However, the average 
of these two, or 4 per cent., is the usual amount found in most milk. 

As has been mentioned, the fat globules of milk rise to the top 
because fat is lighter than water, so that when milk has been undis- 
turbed for some time the top, which is known as cream, will be 
found to contain most of the fat. Because of the fat it contains, the 
cream is yellower in color than the milk underneath. If the cream 
is beaten, or churned, these fat particles will adhere in a mass, 
advantage of this fact being taken in the making of butter. 

10. Carbohydrate in Milk. — ^The carbohydrate contained in 
milk is in the form of sugar called lactose. It is unlike other sugars 
in that it is not very sweet and does not disagree with most persons 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 5 

nor upset their digestion. For this reason, it is often given to 
children, invalids, and persons who have digestive disturbances. 
However, it is like other carbohydrates in that in solution it fer- 
ments. The result of the fermentation in this case is the production 
of lactic acid, which makes the milk sour. With the fat, lactose 
makes up the bulk of the energy-producing material of milk, and 
while this is important it is only secondary when compared to the 
tissue-building power of the protein and minerals. Besides being an 
important part of milk itself, lactose is a valuable by-product in the 
manufacture of cheese. After being taken from whey, which is the 
clear, straw-colored liquid that remains when the curd, or coagulated 
portion, is completely removed from the milk, the lactose is refined 
and sold in the form of a powder that is used for various kinds of 
infant and invalid feeding. 

11. Mineral Matter In Milk. — Considerable quantities of 
mineral salts, which are chiefly lime, potash, and phosphates, are 
found in milk. As has already been pointed out, these are important 
in the building of bone and hard tissue in the body, but in addition 
they help to keep the fluids of the body in the right condition. 
Because of the work they do, these mineral salts are necessary in the 
building of the bodies of growing children, and are useful for repair 
and the regulation of the body processes in adults. In cheese, butter, 
and cream, which are the products of milk, less of the mineral salts 
are found in proportion to the quantity than in whole milk, skim 
milk, and whey. 

12. "Water in Milk. — The percentage of water in milk is much 
greater than that of all the other food substances combined, there 
being more than six times as much. While this quantity seems very 
large, it is an advantage, for milk provides nourishment to persons 
when they can take neither solid nor more condensed food. On the 
other hand, the water is a disadvantage, for it is responsible for the 
rapid spoiling of milk. This fact is clearly shown in the case of 
condensed milk, where the water is partly or completely evaporated, 
for milk of this kind keeps much longer without spoiling than either 
whole or skim milk. 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



PRODUCTS OBTAINED FROM MILK 

13. Although milk is used extensively in its natural liquid form, 
considerable use is also made of the numerous products of milk, chief 
among which are cream, skim milk, buttermilk, sour milk, whey, 
butter, and cheese. In fact, all of these occupy such an important 
place in the dietary of the majority of homes that it is well for every 
housewife to understand their value. Butter and cheese are dis- 
cussed in detail later, so that at this time no attention need be given 
to them. The other products, however, are taken up now, with the 
intention of enabling the housewife to familiarize herself with their 
production, nature, and use. 

14. Cream. — As has been pointed out, the particles of fat that 
rise to the top of milk when it is allowed to remain undisturbed for 
some time form the product known as cream. Cream may be 
removed from the milk by skimming it off, or it may be separated 
from the milk by means of machinery especially designed for the 
purpose. The greater the proportion of fat in milk, the thicker, or 
"heavier," will be the cream. 

Various grades of separated cream are placed on the market, the 
usual ones being those which contain 8, 12, 16, 20, and 40 per cent, of 
fat. Thin cream, which includes the grades that have only a small 
percentage of fat, contains a larger quantity of milk than the others 
and is not so desirable for many purposes. Still, it is used to some 
extent, because it is cheaper and there are definite uses to which it 
can be put. Medium-heavy cream is the kind to select when it is 
desired for whipping. This is a process that consists in beating the 
cream rapidly until a mass of tiny bubbles form and become stiff, 
very much as the white of egg does. 

15. Skim Milk. — After a part or all of the cream has been 
removed from whole milk, that which remains is called skim milk. 
While practically all of the fat is taken out when milk is skimmed, 
very little protein or sugar is removed. Therefore, skim milk is still 
a valuable food, it being used to a large extent for cheese making, for 
the manufacture of certain commercial foods, and for the feeding of 
animals. The housewife does not, as a rule, buy skim milk ; indeed, 
in some localities the laws prevent its sale because it is considered 
an adulterated food. However, it is really a wholesome, valuable 
food that is cheaper than whole milk, and its use in the home should 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 7 

therefore be encouraged from an economical standpoint. Here it 
may be used in the preparation of many dishes, such as sauces, cakes, 
biscuits, muffins, griddle cakes, bread, etc., in which butter or other 
fats are used, and in custards, puddings, ices, and numerous other 
desserts. 

16. Buttermilk. — The milk that remains in butter making 
after the butter fat has been removed from cream by churning is 
known by the name buttermilk. Such milk is similar to skim milk 
in composition, and unless butter is made of sweet cream, buttermilk 
is sour. Buttermilk is used considerably as a beverage, but besides 
this use there are numerous ways in which it may be employed in 
the preparation of foods, as is pointed out in various recipes. An 
advantage of buttermilk is that its cost is less than that of whole 
milk, so that the housewife will do well to make use of it in the 
preparation of those foods in which it produces satisfactory results. 

17. Artificial Buttermilk. — Several kinds of sour milk that 
are called buttermilk are to be had, particularly at soda fountains 
and restaurants. While they are similar to buttermilk they are 
not the same, because they are produced artificially from whole or 
skimmed sweet milk. The usual method employed in the making of 
these artificial buttermilks, as they may well be called, consists in 
adding to sweet milk tablets containing lactic acid or a certain culture 
of bacteria that induce fermentation, very much as yeast does, and 
then keeping it at about body temperature for a number of hours in 
order to allow the milk to thicken and sour. Such milks exert a bene- 
ficial action in the digestive tract, and their food value, provided they 
are made from whole milk, is just as high as that of the original 
sweet milk. Artificial buttermilks therefore prove a valuable source 
of food supply for persons who find them palatable and who do not 
care for sweet milk. Their food value may be increased by adding 
cream to them. 

18. Sour Milk. — Ordinary milk contains large numbers of 
bacteria that produce fermentation. When it is allowed to stand for 
some time, these bacteria act upon the sugar, or lactose, contained 
in the milk and change it into lactic acid. This acid gives to the milk 
a sour taste and at the same time causes the casein of the milk to 
become a mass known as curd, or clabber. This mass continues to 
grow sour and tough until all the milk sugar is converted into lactic 
acid, so that the longer the milk stands, the more acid it becomes. 




,165 



,160 



^Aah 

Prot. 

"^"T^Stto^ Fal 



.865 






mm 180 




ei.o 



es.o 



Fig. 1 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 9 

Sour milk, however, is useful in the preparation of various dishes, 
such as hot breads and griddle cakes. 

19. "Wliey. — When the curd is completely removed from milk, 
as in making cheese, a clear, light, yellowish liquid known as whey 
remains. Whey is composed of water, minerals, and milk sugar or 
lactic acid, and is the least valuable part of the milk. The ingenious 
housewife will never be at a loss to make use of this product, for, 
while its food value is slight, the minerals it contains are important 
ones. Whey is sometimes used to furnish the liquid for bread 
making and, in addition, it may be used as a beverage for persons 
who cannot digest food as heavy as milk itself. 

20. Comparison of Food "Values of Milk Products. — So 

that the housewife may become familiar with the food values of 
milk products, there is here given, in Fig. 1, a graphic table for 
the comparison of such products. Each glass is represented as 
containing approximately 1 pint or 1 pound of the milk product, and 
the figures underneath each indicate the number of calories found in 
the quantity represented. The triangle at the side of each indicates 
the proportion of ash, protein, fat, carbohydrate, and water, the 
percentage composition being given at the side. Housewives as a 
rule fully appreciate the food value that is to be found in whole 
milk and cream, but such products as skim milk, buttermilk, and 
whey are likely to be ignored. 



CHARACTERISTICS OF WHOLESOME MILK 

21. So far as the housewife is concerned, the qualities that 
characterize wholesome milk are without doubt of great interest. 
She may know of what use milk is in the diet and the food sub- 
stances of which it is composed, but unless she understands just what 
constitutes milk of good quality, as well as the nature of inferior 
milk, she cannot very well provide her family with the kind it should 
have. Therefore, to assist her in this matter, the characteristics of 
wholesome milk are here discussed. Such milk, it will be well to 
note, must be of the right composition, must not be adulterated, must 
be fresh — that is, not older when delivered than is permitted by law 
— and must be as clean as possible. 

22. Standard of Milk Composition. — The housewife 
usually judges the quality of milk by the amount of cream that rises 



10 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

to the top when milk in a bottle is allowed to remain undisturbed 
for some time. This is really an excellent test, because milk that 
contains only a small amount of cream is of poorer quality than that 
which contains a larger amount ; in other wor'ds, the more cream milk 
contains, the higher will be its food value and the greater its energy- 
producing ability. Then, too, milk that is rich in cream usually 
contains proportionately large amounts of protein and sugar. 

While the composition of milk has much to do with the quality of 
this food, it varies, as should be noted, in different breeds and even 
in individual cows, depending on both the food and the care given 
to them. For this reason, milk that is mixed is preferable to the 
milk of a single cow, as the mixing of the milk of a number of cows 
insures a better average composition. 

23. Adulteration of Milk. — The composition of milk, and 
hence its quality, is seriously affected by its adulteration. By this is 
meant the extraction of any of the food substances from whole 
milk; the addition of anything that tends to weaken or lower its 
quality or strength ; the use of coloring matter to make it appear of 
greater value than it actually is ; or the use of preservatives to pre- 
vent it from souring as soon as it ordinarily would. It is, of course, 
illegal to adulterate milk, yet it is sometimes done. The most con- 
venient and possibly the most common materials used to adulterate 
milk are water and skim milk. The addition of water to milk 
decreases the quantity of all its food substances, but the addition 
of skim milk reduces the quantity of fat only. The color of the milk 
is often affected by the use of these adulterants, but when this 
happens, yellow coloring is usually added to restore the original 
appearance. 

Sometimes the milk that a dairyman markets contains more fat 
than the law requires ; but even such milk cannot legally be skimmed 
nor diluted with skim milk. The only thing that may be done to it 
is to mix it with milk that is low in butter fat and thus obtain a milk 
that will average the legal percentage. For instance, if milk from 
a dairy averages 5 per cent, of butter fat, it may be diluted with 
milk that contains only 3 per cent, of butter fat, because the result 
of such mixing, which will be milk averaging 4 per cent, of this food 
substance, will be the legal standard. 

24. To prevent milk from souring, dishonest milk dealers often 
put into it such preservatives as soda, borax, and formaldehyde. 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 11 

There is no definite way of telling whether or not one of these has 
been used, except by a chemical analysis. However, if milk does 
not sour within a reasonable time when no precautions have been 
taken to keep it sweet, it should be looked on with suspicion, for it 
undoubtedly contains a preservative. 

25. Freshness of Milk. — To be most satisfactory for all 
purposes, milk should be absolutely fresh. However, it is almost 
impossible to obtain milk in this condition, because it is generally 
sold at a distance from the source of supply. Milk that is sold in 
small towns and cities is usually 12 and often 18 to 21 hours old 
when it is delivered ; whereas, in large cities, where the demand is 
so great that milk must be shipped from great distances, it is often 
24 to 36 or even 48 hours old when it reaches the consumer. In 
order that milk may remain sweet long enough to permit it to be 
delivered at places so far removed from the source of supply, it must 
be handled and cared for in the cleanest possible way by the dealers. 
Likewise, if the housewife desires to get the best results from it, she 
must follow the same plan, cooling it immediately on delivery and 
keeping it cool until it is consumed. The freshness of milk can be 
determined only by the length of time it will remain sweet when 
proper care is given to it. 

26. Cleanliness of Milk. — Milk may be of the right composi- 
tion, free from all adulteration, and as fresh as it is possible to 
obtain it, but unless it is clean, it is an injurious food. Milk is ren- 
dered unclean or impure by dirt. In reality, there are two kinds of 
dirt that may be present in milk, and it is important to know just 
what these are and what effect they have on milk. 

27. The less harmful of the two kinds of dirt is the visible dirt 
that gets into the milk from the cow, the stable, the milker, the milk- 
ing utensils, and similar sources when these are not scrupulously 
clean. If milk containing such dirt is allowed to stand long enough 
in pans or bottles for the heavier particles to settle, it will be found 
as sediment in the bottom of the receptacle. To say the least, the 
presence of such dirt is always disagreeable and frequently produces 
foreign flavors. 

Straining the milk through clean absorbent cotton will reveal the 
presence of such dirt and another kind of dirt that does not show 
through the opaque fluid. This second kind of dirt is generally found 
in milk when the first kind is present in any quantity. It is more 



12 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



liable to be harmful than the other, because it enters the milk from 
the water used in cleaning the receptacles or from some contami- 
nated source. 

28. Whenever dirt is present in milk, bacteria are sure to be 
there; and the greater the quantity of dirt the greater will be the 
number of bacteria. Should the housewife desire to compare the 
cleanliness of several lots of milk, she may filter a like quantity from 
each lot, say a quart or a pint, through small disks of absorbent 
cotton. If, after the milk has passed through the cotton disk, very 




Fig. 2 

little dirt remains on it, as in Fig. 2 (a), the milk may be considered 
as comparatively clean; if the cotton disk appears as in (b), the 
milk may be said to be only slightly dirty; if it appears as in (c), 
the milk is dirty; and if it appears as in (d), the milk is very dirty. 
Milk that leaves a stain like that in {d) contains more bacteria than 
milk that leaves a stain like that in (c), and so on through all the 
lots of milk. Filtering milk in this manner, however, does not 
indicate whether the bacteria are disease producing. Such informa- 
tion can be secured only by microscopic examination, and only then 
by persons who have a knowledge of such matters. 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 13 

29. Since, as has been pointed out, bacteria cling to all dirt, the 
dirt that milk contains is one of the causes of souring and putrefac- 
tion of milk, and may be a cause of disease. Indeed, it is definitely 
known that dirty milk sours much more quickly than does clean 
milk. Actual tests in which clean milk was put in a cool place have 
proved that it will keep for weeks, whereas dirty milk will sour in a 
day or two, especially in warm weather. This information should 
point out clearly to the housewife that it is not merely heat that 
changes milk or causes it to sour. She should understand in addi- 
tion, that bacteria grow and multiply very rapidly when conditions 
for their growth are provided. These conditions are moisture, 
warmth, and the right kind of food, and as all of these are found 
in milk, this product is really ideal for bacterial development. The 
only way in which to protect milk is to make sure that no bacteria 
enter it, or, if they do, to make it impossible for them to grow. This 
may be done by keeping the milk so cold that they cannot thrive, or 
by destroying them in various ways, which are taken up later. 

30. In former times, there was not much danger of wide-spread 
disease from the milk supply, for it was cared for almost entirely 
by those who kept a few cows and distributed milk to a small number 
of customers. In fact, it has been only within the past 50 years 
that large quantities of milk are handled by separate dairies and 
shipped great distances from the source of supply and that the dis- 
tribution of milk has become a great industry. When so much milk 
is handled in one place, it is more or less unsafe unless the dairy is 
kept extremely clean and is conducted in the most sanitary manner. 
Experience has shown that too much attention cannot be given to 
the care of milk, for the lives of great numbers of children have been 
sacrificed through the carelessness of dairymen and persons selling 
and distributing milk, as well as through the negligence of those who 
handle the milk after it has entered the home. To overcome much 
of this carelessness, both the Federal Government and the various 
states of this country have set standards for safe milk production, 
and in order to make their laws effective have established inspection 
service. Independently of these state and national laws, many of 
the cities, particularly the large ones, have made their own standards, 
which, as a rule, are very rigid. One of the usual requirements is 
to compel each person who wishes to sell milk in the city to buy a 
license, so that the city authorities may keep in touch with those 



14 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

handling milk and so that conditions may be investigated at any time. 
In view of the care required of dealers in handling milk, the house- 
wife owes it to herself and the members of her family to keep the 
milk in the home in the best possible manner. 



GRADES OF CLEAN MILK 

31. Ever since milk has come to be a commercial product, 
authorities have been devising ways in which it may be brought to 
the consumer in a condition that will permit it to be used without 
causing ill results. Their efforts have been rewarded to such an 
extent that nowadays consumers have little to fear from the milk 
they purchase, provided they get it from dealers who live up to the 
laws. Chief among the diiferent grades of clean milk is certified 
milk, and next in order comes pasteurized milk, followed by steril- 
ized milk. 

32. Certified Milk. — The grade of clean milk sold under the 
name of certified milk is simply natural, raw milk that is produced 
and marketed under conditions that permit it to be guaranteed as 
pure, wholesome, and of definite composition. Such milk is neces- 
sarily higher in price than milk that is less wholesome and sanitary, 
because of the extra cost to the dairyman in meeting the require- 
ments that make it possible for him to produce clean milk under 
sanitary conditions. These requirements pertain to the health and 
cleanliness of those who handle the milk, to the health, housing con- 
dition, and care of the herd and the dairy cows, and to the handling 
and care of milk in the dairy and during transportation and delivery. 
They are usually established and enforced by an inspection com- 
mission appointed by the city, county, or state in which the milk is 
produced. 

33. If a little careful thought is given to the milk situation, it 
will be admitted that such precautions are necessary if clean milk is 
to be the result. Such milk cannot be produced if the surroundings 
are dirty, because dust and flies, which are two sources of contami- 
nation, are practically always present in such places. A stable with 
poor ventilation, without screens to keep out flies, and with floors 
that will not permit of cleaning, but cause filth and refuse to accumu- 
late, is sure to Contaminate milk that is handled in it. In addition, 
cows that are not well fed, comfortably housed, or carefully groomed 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 15 

cannot be expected to give milk of as good quality as cows that are 
properly cared for. Likewise, if the persons who do the milking are 
not clean, the milk is subject to contamination from this source. 

34. All such unfavorable conditions can be remedied, and must 
be in the production of certified milk ; but the good accomplished in 
this direction will be lost if the milk is carelessly handled after milk- 
ing. Therefore, in producing certified milk, only the cleanest water 
available is allowed to be used in the dairy. Impure water is a com- 
mon source of the contamination of milk in such places. On some 
farms, the water supply comes from a well that is too near the barn 
or that is too shallow to avoid being made impure by the germs that 
filter into it from the barnyard or a cesspool. If vessels in which 
milk is placed are washed in such water, it is necessary to sterilize 
them by boiling or steaming before milk is put into them, in order to 
kill the germs that come from the water. If such a precaution as 
this is not observed, the germs will multiply rapidly in the milk and, 
provided they are disease-producing, will make the milk extremely 
dangerous. 

Besides observing the precautions mentioned, it is necessary that 
all utensils used in a dairy, such as pails for milking, strainers, con- 
tainers, etc., be kept scrupulously clean. Likewise, they must be 
sterilized by boiling each time they are used, for, while disease germs 
may be absent, those which cause the milk to sour are always present 
and must be destroyed. Finally, to prevent any germs that enter 
milk from multiplying, even when it is properly cared for, the milk 
has to be cooled to a temperature of 45 degrees Fahrenheit or lower 
immediately after milking and then bottled in sterilized bottles, 
sealed, and packed in ice, within 20 minutes after milking. 

35. It is by giving attention to all such matters that certified milk 
is possible. Such milk, as will be understood from what has been 
said, is neither a cooked milk nor a dirty milk that is processed, but 
a natural, raw milk that is clean at all stages of its production and 
marketing. Because of this fact, it is the best and cleanest milk 
to be had and may be used without hesitation, not only by grown 
persons in good health, but for infants and invalids. 

The sanitary condition of certified milk and the consequent length 
of time it will remain sweet was demonstrated conclusively as far 
back as 1900 at the Paris Exposition. At this time, two model dairies 
in the United States — one located at the University of Illinois and 



16 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

the other at Briarcliff Manor, Westchester County, New York — 
delivered to their booths at the Exposition milk that was bottled 
under the most sanitary conditions at their dairies. During its 
transit across the ocean the milk was kept at a temperature of 40 to 
42 degrees Fahrenheit, and on its arrival, 2 weeks after leaving the 
dairies, it was found to be in a perfectly sweet condition. Similar 
experiments made at later dates, such as shipping certified milk from 
the East to California, serve to bear out the test made in 1900, and 
prove what can be done with milk so produced as to be as free as 
possible from bacteria or the conditions that permit their growth. 

36. Pasteurized Milk. — ^While certified milk is undoubtedly 
the safest kind of milk to use and is constantly growing in favor, 
much of the milk received in the home is pasteurized. By pasteur- 
ized milk is meant milk that has been heated to a temperature of 
140 to 155 degrees Fahrenheit, kept at this temperature for 15 to 
20 minutes, and then cooled rapidly. The result of such a treatment 
is that any disease-producing germs that are present in the milk, as 
well as those which are likely to cause intestinal disturbances, are 
destroyed, and that the milk is rendered safe as food for a time. 
Pasteurizing does not materially change the taste of milk, nor does it 
seriously affect the digestive properties of this food. It is true, of 
course, that pasteurized milk is not so good as clean raw milk. Still 
it is better to use such milk than to run the risk of using milk that 
might be contaminated with the germs of tuberculosis, typhoid fever, 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, or any other of the numerous diseases that 
have been known to be carried to whole families and communities 
through the milk supply. 

37. Although pasteurizing is done on a large scale in dairies, 
there is no reason why the housewife cannot pasteurize the milk she 
buys, provided it is raw milk and she feels that it is not safe to 
use. If pasteurizing is to be done frequently and large quantities 
of milk are to be treated, it would be advisable to purchase the 
convenient apparatus that is to be had. However, if only a small 
quantity of milk is to be pasteurized at a time, a simple improvised 
outfit will prove satisfactory, because milk pasteurized in the home 
may be heated in the bottles in which it is received. Such an outfit 
consists of a dairy thermometer, a deep vessel, and a perforated pie 
tin or a wire rack of suitable size. 



§6 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



17 



38. To pasteurize milk in the home, proceed in the manner illus- 
trated in Fig. 3. Place the rack or invert the perforated pie tin in 
the bottom of the vessel, and on it place 
the bottles of milk from which the caps 
have not been removed. Make a hole 
through the cap of one bottle, and insert 
the thermometer into the milk through 
this hole. Then fill the vessel with cold 
water to within an inch or so of the top 
of the bottles, taking care not to put in 
so much water as to make the bottles 
float. Place the vessel over the fire, 
heat it until the thermometer in the 
bottle registers a few degrees over 
150 degrees Fahrenheit, and keep the 
milk at this temperature for 15 to 
20 minutes. At the end of this time, 
the milk will be sufficiently pasteurized 
and may be removed from the fire. As 
soon as it is taken from the water, cool it as rapidly as possible by 
running cold water into the vessel slowly or by placing the bottles 
in several changes of water, taking care not to place the hot bottles 
in very cold water at first, as this may cause them to crack. 

When the milk has been cooled by some rapid method, keep it cool 
until it is used. This precaution is necessary because of the nature 
of pasteurized milk. The temperature at which milk is pasteurized 
is sufficient to kill all fully developed bacteria, but those which exist 
in an undeveloped state, or in the form of spores, develop very 
rapidly after pasteurization unless the milk is kept cold and clean. 
If these bacteria were allowed to develop, the purpose of pasteuriza- 
tion would be lost, and the milk would become as dangerous as it 




Fig. 3 






/nAf/7Je 



ooo/*ef nr/>/cf/y 



• e- 



/nM///r 



coa/eef £/ow/y 



Fig. 4 






was originally. The advantage of cooling milk rapidly will be fully 
appreciated upon referring to Fig. 4, which illustrates the develop- 



WI— C3-3 



18 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

tnent of a single germ in millc that is cooled rapidly and in milk that 
is cooled slowly. 

39. Sterilized Milk. — By sterilized milk is meant milk in 
which all germs are destroyed by sterilization. Such milk is not sold 
by dealers, but the process of sterilization is resorted to in the home 
when pasteurization is not sufficient to render milk safe. This proc- 
ess, which is the only positive means of destroying all germs, consists 
in bringing the milk to the boiling point, or 212 degrees Fahrenheit, 
allowing it to boil for f hour, and then cooling it rapidly. One who 
undertakes to treat milk in this way should remember that it is 
difficult to boil milk, because the solids in the milk adhere to the 
bottom and sides of the vessel and soon burn. However, this diffi- 
culty can be overcome by sterilizing the milk in the bottles in which 
it is bought. 

40. To sterilize milk, place the sealed bottles on a wire rack or 
a perforated pie tin in a deep vessel, as for the pasteurizing of milk, 
and pour cold water into the vessel until it nearly covers the bottles. 
Then raise the temperature of the water quickly to the boiling 
point, and after it has begun to bubble, allow it to boil for f hour. 
At the end of this time, cool the milk rapidly and then keep it cool 
until it is used. 

41. Although milk thus treated becomes safe, sterilization 
changes its flavor and digestibility. If milk of this kind must be 
used, some raw food should be given with it. A diet composed 
entirely of cooked food is not so ideal as one in which some raw 
food is included, because raw foods contain substances that are 
essential to health. The change that takes place in the composition 
of milk that has been sterilized can be easily observed. Such milk 
on becoming sour does not coagulate as does pasteurized or raw 
milk, owing to the fact that the lime salts in the milk are so changed 
by the high temperature as to prevent the thickening process from 
taking place. Then, too, sterilized milk is not likely to become sour 
even after considerable time. Still, such milk is not safe to use 
except when it is fresh, for instead of fermenting in the usual way 
it putrefies and is liable to cause such a dangerous sickness as 
ptomaine poisoning. 

42. Modified Milk. — For infants who cannot be fed their 
normal diet, cow's milk must be used as a substitute, but in order 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 19 

to make it a more nearly ideal food for them it must usually be 
modified, or changed, by adding other materials. When it is so 
treated, it is known as modified milk. The materials used to modify 
milk are sterile water, lime water, barley water, cream, skim milk, 
milk sugar, or some other easily digested carbohydrate, one of these 
or a combination of them always being employed. The proportion 
of these ingredients to use varies with the age of the child that is to 
be fed and must be constantly changed to meet the child's require- 
ments. In the production of modified milk, a physician's prescrip- 
tion and directions should always be followed closely. Only the best 
quality of milk should be used, and, in addition, the greatest care 
should be taken to have all the bottles, utensils, and materials used 
as clean and sterile as it is possible to make them. If such conditions 
cannot be met, it is advisable to pasteurize the modified-milk mixture 
after the materials have been put together. 



PRESERVED MILK 

43. Besides milk that is commonly sold by dairymen and milk 
dealers, it is possible to buy in the market many grades of so-called 
preserved, milk. Such milk is produced by driving off all or part 
of the water contained in milk, and it is sold as condensed, evapo- 
rated, and powdered milk. Usually, it is put up in tin cans, and 
while it is not used so extensively as regular milk, many firms are 
engaged in its preparation. 

44. Condensed and Evaporated Milk. — ^As has just been 
mentioned, condensed and evaporated milk is produced by the com- 
plete or partial evaporation of the water contained in milk. Such 
milk can be shipped long distances or kept for long periods of time, 
because it does not contain sufficient moisture to permit the growth 
of bacteria. In evaporating milk to produce these preserved milks, 
each gallon is diminished in quantity to about 2^ pints, the original 
87 per cent, of water being reduced to about 25 per cent. Therefore, 
in order to use such milk, sufficient water must be added to restore it 
to its original composition. Sometimes comparatively large amounts 
of cane sugar are added to such milks, which, besides sweetening 
them, assist in their preservation. If cane sugar is not used, the 
milks are usually made sterile in order to prevent them from 
spoiling. , 



20 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

45. Powdered Milk. — The form of preserved milk known as 
powdered milk is the result of completely evaporating the water in 
milk. Such milk has the appearance of a dry powdered substance. 
It does not spoil easily and is so greatly reduced in quantity that it can 
be conveniently stored. Because of these characteristics, this product, 
for which skim milk is generally used, is extensively manufactured. 
It is used chiefly by bakers and confectioners, and, as in the case of 
evaporated or condensed milk, the water that has been evaporated 
in the powdering process must be supplied when the milk is used. 



STANDARD GRADING OF MILK AND CREAM 

46. In order that a definite idea may be formed of the sanitary 
and bacteriological standards that are set by milk commissions, there 
are here given, in Table I, the regulations governing the grades and 
designation of milk and cream that may be sold in the city of New 
York. As will be observed from a study of this table, only definite 
grades of milk and cream can be sold in that city ; likewise, it must 
conform to certain standards of purity and the producer must 
handle it in such a way that it may be delivered to the consumer in 
as clean and fresh a condition as possible. 

Without doubt, a grading similar to this one will become general 
throughout the United States eventually, for this is the only way by 
which the housewife may know with certainty whether or not the 
milk she purchases is of the right composition and is safe, fresh, and 
sanitary in every respect. The different qualities of milk and cream 
as shown by this grading are, of course, sold at different prices, those 
which require the greatest care and expense in handling selling for 
the highest price, 

MILK IN THE HOME 



PURCHASE OF MILK 

47. After the housewife has become familiar with the points 
that she should know concerning milk, she will be much better 
equipped to purchase milk of the right kind for her home. However, 
there are still some points for her to observe when she is purchasing 
milk if she would supply her family with the best quality of this 
food. 



TAB] 
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE GRADES AND DESIGNATION OF MM 

The following classifications apply to milk and cream. Tlie regulations regi 



Grades of 

Milk or Cream 

Sold in 

the City of 

New York 



Definition 



Tuberculin Test 

and Physical 

Condition 



I 



Bacterial Contents 



Grade A 

Milk or cream 
(Raw) 



Milk or cream 
(Pasteurized) 



Grade B 

Milk or cream 
(Pasteurized) 



Grade C 

Milk or cream 
(Pasteurized) 
(For cooking 
and manufac- 
turing purposes 
only.) 



Grade A milk or cream (raw) is 
milk or cream produced and han- 
dled in accordance with the mini- 
mum requirements, niles, and 
regulations as herein set forth. 



Grade A milk or cream (pasteur- 
ized) is milk or cream handled and 
sold by dealers holding permits 
therefor from the Board of Health, 
and produced and handled in 
accordance with the requirements, 
rules, and regulations as herein 
set forth. 



Grade B milk or cream (pasteur- 
ized) is milk or cream produced 
and handled in accordance with 
the minimum requirements, rules, 
and regulations herein set forth 
and which has been pasteurized in 
accordance with the requirements 
and rules and regulations of the 
Department of Health for pasteur- 
ization. 



Grade C milk or cream is milk 
or cream not conforming to the 
requirements of any of the sub- 
divisions of Grade A or Grade B 
and which has been pasteurized 
according to the requirements and 
rules and regulations of the Board 
of Health or boiled for at least 
two (2) minutes. 



1. Only such 
cows shall be ad- 
m i 1 1 e d to the 
herd as have not 
reacted to a 
diagnostic injec- 
tion of tubercu- 
lin and are in 
good physical 
condition. 

2. All cows 
shall be tested 
annually with 
tuberculin and 
all reacting ani- 
mals shall be ex- 
cluded from the 
herd. 



Grade A milk (raw) shall is 
contain more than 60,000 bacb 
per cubic centimeter, and ens. 
more than 300,000 bacteria pi 
cubic centimeter when deliver 
to the consumer or at any tr 
prior to such delivCTy. 



No tuberculin 
test required, but 
cows must be 
healthy as dis- 
closed by physi- 
cal examination 
made annually. 



Grade A milk (pasteurized) ^ 
not contain more than 30,000 fc. 
teria per cubic centimeter ^ 
cream (pasteurized) more tJ:: 
150,000 bacteria per cubic C€:: 
meter when delivered to liie n 
sumer or at any time after pastes? 
zation and prior to such delivers 

No milk supply averagiog mcr 
than 200,000 bacteria per cah 
centimeter shall be pasteurized ig 
sale under this designation. 



Xo tuberculin 
test required, but 
cows must be 
healthy as dis- 
closed by physi- 
cal examination 
made annually. 



Xo tuberculin 
test required, but 
cows must be 
healthy as dis- 
closed by physi- 
cal examination 
made annually. 



Xo milk under this grade sii. 
contain more than 100,000 k 
teria per cubic centimeter and:. 
cream shall contain more ts 
500,000 bacteria per cubic ce:- 
meter when deUvered to the dx- 
sumer or at any time after je- 
teurization and prior to siz 
dehvery. 

No milk supply averaging eh 
than 1,500,000 bacteria per ocii; 
centimeter ^aU be pasteuxigx r 
this city for sale under this dej. 
nation. 

No Tni]lc supply averaging n -, 
than 300,000 bacteria per a 
centimeter shall be pastettaj 
outside of this city for sale id^ 
this designation. 



Xu milk of this grade shalltt& 
tain more than 300.000 bafca 
per cubic centimeter and noiSteE 
of this grade shall contain ii]:t 
than 1,500.000 bacteria per ci-^: 
centimeter after pasteurizatioi 



Note. — Sour milk, buttermilk, sour cream, kumyss, matzoon. zoolac, and similar products shall W be 
before being put through the process of souring. Sour cream shall not contain a less percentage ofWte, 
No other words than those designated herein shall appear on the label of any container containing won 
WI— C2 § 6 



. AND CREAM WHICH MAY BE SOLD IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

iing bacterial content and time of delivery shall not apply to sour cream 





Necessary 
Scores 


Time of 
Delivery 


Bottling 


Labeling 


Pasteurization 


\ 

ot 
ria 
m 
er 
ed 
ne 


Equip. 25 

Meth. 50 
Total 75 


Shall be 
delivered 
within 36 
hours after 
production. 


Unless _ other- 
wise specified in 
the permit, this 
milk or cream 
shall be dehvered 
to the consumer 
only in bottles. 


Outer caps of bottles shall 
be white and shall contain 
the words Grade A, Raw, in 
black letters in large type, 
and shall state the name and 
address of the dealer. 




all 
ac- 
nd 
an 
ti- 
Dn- 
iri- 
ry. 
ore 
bic 
for 


Equip. 25 

Meth. 43 
Total 68 


Shall be 
delivered 
within 36 
hours after 
pasteuri- 
zation. 


Unless other- 
wise specified in 
the permit, this 
milk or cream 
shall be delivered 
to the consumer 
only in bottles. 


Outer caps of bottles shall 
be white and shall contain 
the words Grade A in black 
letters in large type, date and 
hours between which pasteur- 
ization was completed; place 
where pasteurization was per- 
formed; name of the person, 
firm, or corporation offering 
for sale, selling, or delivering 
same. 


Only such 
milk or cream 
shall be re- 
garded as pas- 
teurized as has 
been subjected 
to a tempera- 
ture averaging 
145° F. for not 
less than 30 
minutes. 


all 
ac- 
no 
lan 
iti- 
on- 
as- 
ich 

ore 

bic 

in 

>ig- 

Pre 
bic 

jier 


Equip. 20 

Meth. 35 
Total 55 


Milk shall 
be delivered 
within 36 
hours and 
cream with- 
in 48 hours 
after pas- 
teurization. 


M a y be de- 
livered in cans 
or bottles. 


Outer caps of bottles con- 
taining milk and tags affixed 
to cans containing milk or 
cream shall be white . and 
marked Grade B in bright 
green letters in large type, 
date pasteurization was com- 
pleted, place where pasteur- 
ization was performed, name 
of the person, firm, or cor- 
poration offering for sal e, 
selling, or delivering same. 
Bottles containing cream shall 
be labeled with caps marked 
Grade B in bright green 
letters, in large type and 
shall give the place and date 
of bottling and shall give the 
name of person, firm, or cor- 
poration offering for sale, 
selling, or delivering same. 


Only such 
milk or cream 
shall be re- 
garded as pas- 
teurized as has 
been subjected 
to a tempera- 
ture averaging 
145° F. for not 
less than 30 
minutes. 


)n- 
ria 

,im 
jre 
,nc 

s 


Score 40 


Shall be 
delivered 
within 48 
hours after 
p a steuri- 
zation. 


May be de- 
livered in cans 
only. 


Tags affixed to cans shall 
be white and shall be marked 
in red with the words. Grade 
C in large type and "for 
cooking" in plainly visible 
type, and cans shall have 
properly sealed metal collars, 
painted red on necks. 


Only such 
milk or cream 
shall be re- 
garded as pas- 
teurized as has 
been subjected 
to a tempera- 
ture averaging 
145° F. fcr not 
less than 30 
minutes. 



I be made from any milk of a less grade than that .designated for Grade B and shall be pasteurized 
^than that designated for cream. ., , , ^,. ■ j j ^u c ^ , 

%i cream or milk or cream products except the word certified when authorized under the btats law 
* 96660 



§6 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



21 



48. In the first place, she should buy milk from a reliable dealer 
who will not object to questioning, and, if possible, she should make 
an investigation of the dairy that supplies the milk that she uses. If 
she cannot investigate the dairy personally, she should at least 
endeavor to obtain information from those who are prepared to 
give it. If she learns that the conditions in the dairy that is supply- 
ing her with milk are not what they should be, she should try to 
obtain milk from some other source. Of course, she should remem- 
ber that milk of the best and cleanest quality is the highest in price, 
because of the increased cost of production ; but it is usually advis- 
able to pay the higher price, especially if children are to be fed, 
because cheap milk is liable to be unsafe, at least for any purpose 
that will require it to be served without cooking. Should the income 
not allow the best quality of milk 
to be used for all purposes, a 
cheaper grade can be used for cook- 
ing, but it is always economical to 
purchase the best quality when this 
food is to be used as a beverage. 




49. In the next place, the 
housewife should purchase milk 
from a dealer who delivers cold 
milk, because, as has been men- 
tioned, bacteria multiply rapidly in 
warm milk. She should also try to 
obtain milk put up in bottles, for 
such milk has advantages over milk dipped from a can in that 
it does not have the same chance to become dirty and it affords a 
greater opportunity to secure accurate measurement. The kind of 
caps used on milk bottles should also be observed. Caps that have 
to be pried out with a knife or a similar utensil are not nearly so 
satisfactory as those shown in Fig. 5 (a), which have small tabs a 
that permit the cap to be lifted -out. In addition to the caps, which 
serve to keep dirt out of the milk and permit it to be delivered 
without being spilled, some dealers use covers like that shown in (&). 
Such covers are held in place by a wire and serve further to protect 
the milk from contamination. 

If milk purchased in bottles is clean, there should be no sediment 
in the bottom of the bottle after it has been allowed to stand for 



22 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

some time. Also, if it is fresh, it will not sour quickly after it is 
delivered, so that in case it is properly cared for and sours quickly, 
it may be known to be stale milk. However, if it does not sour in 
the normal length of time, it should be looked on with suspicion, for, 
as has been pointed out, such milk may have added to it a preserva- 
tive to prevent souring. The housewife may expect milk that is 
delivered cold and is guaranteed to be sanitary and fresh to remain 
sweet at least 24 hours, provided, of course, it is placed in the refrig- 
erator immediately upon delivery and kept there until used. 



CARE OF MIIiK 

50. Necessity for Care in the Home. — If milk of good 
quality is bought, and, as has been suggested, this should be done 
whenever it is possible, the next thing to do is to care for it in such 
a way that it may be fed to the family in the same condition as it was 
when delivered. It is, of course, of prime importance that the dairy- 
man deliver clean fresh milk, but this is not sufficient ; the milk must 
remain in this condition until it is used, and this can occur only when 
the housewife knows how to care for it properly after it enters the 
home. It is possible to make safe milk unsafe and unsafe milk 
positively dangerous unless the housewife understands how to care 
for milk and puts into practice what she knows concerning this 
matter. Indeed, some of the blame laid to the careless handling of 
milk by dairymen really belongs to housewives, for very often they 
do not take care of milk in the right way after delivery. As too 
much attention cannot be given to this matter, explicit directions are 
here outlined, with the idea of assisting the housewife in this matter 
as much as possible. 

51. Keeping Milk Clean in the Home. — Immediately upon 
delivery, the bottle containing the milk should be placed in the coolest 
place available, never being allowed to stand on the porch in the sun 
or where such animals as cats or dogs may come in contact with it. 
When the milk is to be used, the paper cap should be carefully wiped 
before it is removed from the bottle, so that any dirt that may be on 
top will not fall into the milk. If not all the milk is used and the 
bottle must be returned to the cool place where it is kept, it should 
be covered by means of an inverted drinking glass or, as shown in 
Fig. 6, by a glass or porcelain cover. Such covers, or sanitary milk 



§6 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



23 



caps, as they are called, are very convenient for this purpose and 
may be purchased at a slight cost. 

52. Another precaution that should be taken is never to mix 
stale milk with fresh milk, because the entire quantity will become 
sour in the same length of time as the stale milk would. Also, milk 
that has been poured into a pitcher or any other open vessel and 
allowed to stand exposed to the air for some time should never be 
put back into the bottle with the remaining milk. Such milk is sure 
to be contaminated with the germs that are always present in the 
dust constantly circulating in the air. It is sometimes necessary to 
keep milk in a vessel other than the bottle 
in which it is delivered. In such an 
event, the vessel that is used should be 
washed thoroughly, boiled in clean water, 
and cooled before the milk is poured 
into it. 

53. Particular care should be taken 
of the empty milk bottles. They should 
never be used for anything except milk. 
Before they are returned to the dairy- 
man to be used again, they should first 
be rinsed with cold water, then washed 
thoroughly with hot, soapy water, and 
finally rinsed with hot water. If there is 
illness in the home, the washed bottles 
should be put into a pan of cool water, 
allowed to come to a boil, and permitted F''^- s 

to boil for a few minutes. Such attention will free the bottles from 
any contamination they might have received. The dairyman, of 
course, gives the bottles further attention before he uses them 
again, but the housewife should do her part by making sure that 
they are thoroughly cleansed before they are collected by him. 

54. Keeping Milk Cool in the Home. — As has been pointed 
out, milk should, upon being received, be kept in the coolest place 
available, which, in the majority of homes at the present time, is the 
refrigerator. In making use of the refrigerator for this purpose, 
the housewife should put into practice what she learned in 
Essentials of Cookery, Part 2, concerning the proper placing of food 
in the refrigerator, remembering that milk should be placed where 




24 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



§6 



it will remain the coolest and where it is least likely to absorb odors. 
She should also bear in mind that the temperature inside of a 
refrigerator varies with that of the surrounding air. It is because 
of this fact that milk often sours when the temperature is high, as 
in summer, for instance, even though it is kept in the refrigerator. 

55. In case a refrigerator is not available, it will be necessary 
to resort to other means of keeping milk cool. A cool cellar or base- 
ment is an excellent substitute, but if milk is kept in either of these 
places, it must be tightly covered. Then, too, the spring house with 

its stream of running water is 
fully as good as a refrigerator 
and is used extensively in farm- 
ing districts. But even though 
a housewife has none of these at 
her disposal, she need not be de- 
prived of fresh milk, for there 
are still other ways of keeping 
milk cool and consequently fresh. 
A very simple way in which to 
keep milk cool is to weight down 
the bottles in a vessel that is 
deeper than they are and then 
pour cold water into the vessel until it reaches the top of the 
bottles, replacing the water occasionally as it becomes warm. A 
still better way, however, so far as convenience and results are con- 
cerned, is that illustrated in Fig. 7. As shown, wrap the bottle in 
a clean towel or piece of cotton cloth so that one corner of it is left 
loose at the top. Then place this end in a pan of cold water that 
stands higher than the bottle. Such an arrangement will keep the 
cloth wet constantly and by the evaporation of the water from it will 
cause the milk to remain cool. 




Fig. 7 



COOKING MILK 



56. Points to Be Observed in Cooking: Milk. — Because of 
the nature of milk and its constituents, the cooking of this liquid is a 
little more difficult than would appear at first thought. In fact, heat- 
ing milk to a temperature greater than 155 degrees Fahrenheit causes 
several changes to occur in it, one of which, the coagulation of the 
albumin, has already been mentioned. As the albumin hardens into 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 25 

the .ayer that forms on the top of boiled milk, a certain amount of 
fat, sugar, and casein becomes entangled in it, and if the coagulated 
skin is rejected, these food substances, in addition to the albumin, 
are lost. Another change that results from boiling is in the fat 
globules that remain, for these separate and exist no longer in the 
form of cream. 

57. When milk that is not perfectly fresh is cooked with other 
materials or soups, sauces, and puddings it sometimes curdles. To 
prevent curdling, the milk should be heated as rapidly as possible 
before it is used with the other ingredients. While the separate 
heating of the milk involves a little more work, time may be gained 
by heating the milk while the remaining ingredients are being pre- 
pared. The curdling of comparatively fresh milk is often caused 
by the addition of salt, especially if the salt is added when the milk 
is hot. However, if a pinch of bicarbonate of soda is added to the 
milk before it is heated, it will not be likely to curdle even though 
it is not absolutely fresh. When tomato is to be used in soup that 
contains milk or cream, curdling can be prevented if the milk or the 
cream to be used is thickened with flour or corn starch or a little 
soda is added to the tomato before the two are mixed. The mixing 
is accomplished by pouring the tomato into the milk instead of 
the milk into the tomato. When acid fruit juices are to be added to 
milk or cream and the mixture then frozen, curdling can be pre- 
vented by thoroughly chilling the milk or cream in the freezer can 
before combining it with the juices. 

58. As has already been learned, great care must be taken in the 
heating of milk, because the solids that it contains adhere quickly to 
the bottom of the pan and cause the milk to scorch. For this reason, 
milk should never be heated directly over the flame unless the inten- 
tion is to boil it, and even if it must be boiled every precaution should 
be taken to prevent it from burning. It should be remembered, too, 
that a very small scorched area will be sufficient to make a quantity 
of milk taste burned. The utensil in which milk can be heated in 
the most satisfactory way is the double boiler, for the milk does not 
come in direct contact with the heat in this utensil. If a double 
boiler is not available, good results can be obtained by setting one 
pan into another that contains water. 

59. Milk is often used in place of water for cooking cereals, 
beverages, puddings, soups, etc. This is good practice and should be 



26 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

followed whenever possible, for when milk is added it serves to 
increase the nutritive value of the food. It should be observed, 
however, that more time is required to cook grains or cereals in milk 
than to cook them in water, because milk contains more solid matter 
than water and is not absorbed so quickly. Another frequent use of 
milk is in breads and biscuits, where, as is explained in Bread and 
Hot Breads, it produces a browner and more tender crust than water. 

60. Variety of Ways to Use Milk in Cooking. — Because 
of the numerous purposes for which milk is required in the prepara- 
tion of foods, the smallest amount of it, whether sweet or sour, can 
be utilized in cooking; therefore, no milk need ever be wasted. A 
few of the uses to which this food is oftenest put are mentioned 
briefly in order that the housewife may be familiar enough with them 
to call them to mind whenever she desires to carry out a recipe that 
calls for milk or when she has occasion to utilize milk that she has 
on hand. 

Milk thickened slightly with flour and flavored with such material 
as corn, asparagus, celery, tomatoes, beans, peas, or fish makes a deli- 
cious soup. In bisques, or thickened soups, and in chowders, the 
liquid used need not be milk, but these are made very appetizing if 
milk is used for part or all of the liquid. Then, too, sauces or gravies 
made with milk, thickened with flour, and made rich with butter or 
other fat lend themselves to a variety of uses. Dice of vegetables, 
meat, fish, or game added to a sauce of this kind and served in pastry 
cases or over toast provide dishes that are delightful additions to any 
meal. Milk is also used as the basis for custards, blanc manges, 
ices, sherbets, ice creams, and tapioca, rice, and bread puddings in 
which eggs, starchy materials, and flavorings are added and the mix- 
ture then baked, steamed, boiled, or frozen, as the desired result may 
require. As is well known, milk is practically indispensable in the 
making of cakes, cookies, quick breads, and in fact nearly all dough 
mixtures. Even if it has soured, it can be used with soda to take the 
place of cream of tartar in mixtures that are to be made light, the 
lactic acid in the sour milk acting with the soda as leavening. Left- 
over milk in comparatively large quantities may also be used in the 
home for the making of cheese, although this product of milk is 
usually produced commercially. 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 27 



RECIPES FOR MILK DISHES AND SAUCES 



POODS CONTAINING MIIiK 

61. From the discussion given up to this point, it will be noted 
that milk is used in a large variety of ways and in the making of 
numerous dishes. However, most of the dishes in which this liquid 
occurs involve other important materials, so that the recipes for them 
are usually listed under some other ingredient or division of cookery. 
For instance, milk is used in the making of ice cream, but as the ice 
creams are included among cold desserts, recipes for them would 
naturally come in the Section pertaining to this subject. Milk is also 
an important ingredient in puddings, but the recipes for such dishes 
are given in the Section in which puddings and their sauces are 
discussed. 

Because of this fact, there are only a few recipes that have milk 
as their basis, and this accounts for the small number of recipes here 
given. Chief among the recipes that involve principally milk are 
those for junket and white sauce, and while the number of these is 
small and the use of the dishes not so general as some kinds of food, 
just as much attention should be given to them as if they occurred 
in greater numbers and were used more commonly. Junket is very 
easily made and should therefore cause the housewife no concern; 
likewise, little difficulty will be experienced if the directions here 
given for white sauces are followed explicitly. 



RECIPES FOR JUNKET 

62. Plain Junket. — In the stomachs of all animals that use 
milk as food is found a digestive ferment known as rennin. This is 
taken from the stomachs of calves, made up commercially, and sold 
in the form of tablets called junket. When these tablets are used 
properly with milk, they coagulate the milk and make an excellent 
dessert that resembles custard and that is very easy to digest. 
Because of its nature and qualities, this kind of dessert is used 
largely for invalids and children. The following recipe gives the 
proportion and directions for making this dessert in its simplest 
form. 



28 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



§6 



V 



Plain Junket 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 junket tablet 4 Tb. sugar 

1 Tb. cold water ^ tsp. salt 

1 qt. milk | tsp. vanilla or other flavoring 

Dissolve the junket tablet in the cold water. Warm the milk very 
slowly to 100 degrees Fahrenheit, testing the temperature to make 
sure that it is right. If a thermometer is not on hand, this can be 
done by dropping a drop on the back of the hand. When neither 
heat nor cold can be felt from this drop of milk, it may be known to 
be very near the body temperature, the temperature at which rennin 
is active. If the temperature is found to be too high, the milk must 

be cooled before the tablet 
is added. When the desired 
temperature has been 
reached, add the sugar, the 
salt, the junket dissolved in 
the water, and the flavoring. 
Then pour all into individual 
molds and keep it where it 
will remain warm for about 
10 minutes, at the end of 
Fig. 8 which it should be firm like 

a custard and may be cooled. Keep the junket cool until it is to be 
served, when it may be turned out of the mold or served in it. As 
junket will turn to whey if it is broken with a spoon to any extent, 
serving it in the mold is the better plan. 




63. Junket With Fruit. — The addition of fruit to junket, as 
in the dish illustrated in Fig. 8, makes an attractive dessert for both 
sick and well people. If the fruit used is permissible in the diet of 
an invalid, its combination with junket adds variety to the diet. In 
the making of this dessert, all juice should be carefully drained from 
the fruit before the junket is poured over it. Canned or fresh fruits 
may be used with equally good results. 

Junket With Fruit 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 junket tablet i tsp. salt 

1 Tb. cold water Flavoring 

1 qt. milk 8 halves of canned peaches or 

J c. sugar 1 c. of berries or small fruit 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 29 

Make a junket as directed in the preceding recipe. Drain all juice 
from the fruit and place a half peach or a spoonful of fruit in the 
bottom of each of the eight molds and pour the junket over it to fill 
the mold. Let it solidify and serve cold. 

64. Chocolate Junket. — Chocolate added to plain junket not 
only varies the junket dessert, but also adds food value, since choco- 
late contains a large quantity of fat that is easily digested by most 
persons. Where the flavor of chocolate is found agreeable, such 
junket may be served in place of the plain junket. 

Chocolate Junket 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. milk -J tsp. salt 

2 sq. chocolate i tsp. vanilla 

6 Tb. sugar 1 junket tablet 

f c. water 
Heat the milk to 100 degrees Fahrenheit, testing in the manner 
explained in Art. 62. Melt the chocolate in a saucepan, add to it 
the sugar and i cupful of water, and cook until smooth; then cool 
and add to the warm milk, putting in the salt, vanilla, and junket 
tablet dissolved in ^ cupful of the water. Turn the junket into a 
dish or into molds and let stand in a warm place until set ; then chill 
and serve. In preparing this recipe, it will be well to note that if 
sweet chocolate is used less sugar than is specified may be employed. 

65. Caramel Junket. — In the making of caramel junket, 
browned, or caramelized, sugar and water take the place of part of 
the milk, and while a certain amount of the sugar is reduced in the 
browning, the caramel is still very high in food value and adds 
nutritive material to the dessert. There is nothing about caramel 
junket to prevent its being given to any one able to take plain junket, 
and if it is made correctly it has a very delightful flavor. 

Caramel Junket 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

i c. sugar 1 junket tablet 

I c. boiling water Whipped cream 

i tsp. salt i c. chopped nuts 

Heat the milk to 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Caramelize the sugar 
by melting it in a saucepan directly over the flame until it is a light- 
brown color ; then stir in the boiling water and cook until the caramel 
and the water become a sirup, after which cool and add to the milk- 



30 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 6 

Add the salt, the vanilla, and the junket tablet dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of cold water Pour the mixture into a dish, let it stand in 
a warm place until it sets ; then chill, cover with sweetened whipped 
cream, sprinkle with chopped nuts, and serve. 



RECIPES FOR ■WHITE SAUCE 

66. Three white sauces are commonly used for different pur- 
poses, and in each one of them milk is the basis. These sauces differ 
from one another in thickness, and include thin white sauce, which 
is used for cream toast and soups; medium white sauce, which is 
used for dressing vegetables and is flavored in various ways to 
accompany meats, patties, or croquettes; and thick white sauce, 
which is used to mix with the materials used for croquettes in order 
to hold them together. To insure the best results, the proportion of 
flour and liquid should be learned for each kind, and to avoid the 
formation of lumps the proper method of mixing should be carefully 
followed out. A white sauce properly made is perfectly smooth, and 
since only little care is needed to produce such a result it is inexcus- 
able to serve a lumpy sauce. Also, nothing is more disagreeable 
than thick, pasty sauce, but this can be avoided by employing the 
right proportion of flour and milk. The ingredients and their pro- 
portions for the various kinds of white sauce are as follows : 
Thin White Sauce 

1 c. milk 1 Tb. flour 

1 Tb. butter | tsp. salt 

Medium White Sauce 

1 c. milk 2 Tb. flour 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. salt 

Thick White Sauce 

Ic. milk ic. (4 Tb.) flour 

2 Tb. butter | tsp. salt 

It will be easy to remember the proportions for these three sauces 
if it is observed that each one doubles the previous one in the quan- 
tity of flour used, the thin one having 1 tablespoonful to 1 cupful of 
milk, the medium one 2 tablespoonfuls to 1 cupful of milk, and the 
thick one 4 tablespoonfuls to 1 cupful of milk. To produce these 
sauces the ingredients may be combined in three different ways, each 
of which has its advantages. These methods, which are here given, 
should be carefully observed, for they apply not only to the making 



§ 6 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 31 

of this particular sauce, but to the combining of fat, starch, and liquid 
in any sauce. 

Method I. — Heat the milk, being careful that it does not scorch. 
Brown the butter slightly in a saucepan, add the flour and salt, and 
stir the mixture until it is perfectly smooth and has a deep cream 
color. Then add the hot milk gradually, stirring to prevent the 
formation of lumps. Cook 5 minutes, stirring constantly to prevent 
the sauce from scorching. Sauce made according to this method 
does not require long cooking because the flour added to the hot fat 
cooks quickly. In fact, it is a very desirable method, for the browned 
butter and the flour lend flavor to the sauce. Many otherwise 
unattractive or rather tasteless foods can be made much more appe- 
tizing by the addition of white sauce made in this way. 

Method 2. — Put the milk on to heat. While this is heating, stir 
the butter, flour, and salt together until they are soft and well mixed ; 
then add the hot milk to them slowly, stirring constantly. Place over 
the heat and finish cooking, or cook in a double boiler. Sauce made 
by this method requires longer cooking than the preceding one and 
it has less flavor. 

Method J. — Heat the milk, reserving a small portion. Stir the 
flour smooth with the cold milk and add it to the hot milk, stirring 
rapidly. Add the butter and the salt, and continue to stir if cooked 
over the heat ; if cooked in a double boiler, stir only until the mixture 
is completely thickened and then continue to cook for 10 or 15 min- 
utes. When butter is added to the mixture in this way, it is 
likely to float on top, especially if too much is used. A better sauce 
may be made according to this method by using thin cream for the 
liquid and omitting the butter. 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 

(PART 1) 
EXABIINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) When milk is used in a meal, what kinds of food may be omitted? 

(2) Name the chief uses of milk in the dietary. 

(3) Why is it possible for a child to remain in normal condition if given 
only milk for a long period of time? 

(4) Name the solids contained in milk and tell for what each one is 
valuable. 

(5) What causes milk to sour? 

(6) What are the characteristics of wholesome milk? 

(7) What is meant by the adulteration of milk? 

(8) What quality of milk is of the most importance to the health of those 
using milk? 

(9) (o) Why is dirty milk dangerous? (fc) Pour a quart of the milk you 
purchase regularly through a pad of cotton. Note the result and report the 
condition of the milk by comparing the cotton with the disks shown in Fig. 2. 

(10) Name some of the ways in which milk is likely to become con- 
taminated. 

(11) What is the safest kind of market milk to buy? 

(12) Describe the conditions under which milk of this kind is marketed. 

(13) (a) What is pasteurized milk? (6) What is the purpose o< 
pasteurization ? 

(14) How may milk be pasteurized in the home? 

(15) (o) When should milk be sterilized? (6) What changes take place 
in the sterilization of milk? 

(16) What points should be considered in the purchase of milk? 

(17) Why is it necessary to give milk considerable care in the home? 

(18) Mention the precautions that should be observed in caring for milk. 

(19) (o) How is milk affected by cooking? (6) Describe the best way 
to heat milk. 

(20) Give the proportions of flour and liquid required in each of the three 
varieties of white sauce. 

§6 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 

(PART 2) 



BUTTER AND BUTTER SUBSTITUTES 



BUTTER 

1. Butter is the fatty constituent of milk. It is obtained by 
skimming or separating the cream from milk and churning it in 
order to make the particles of fat adhere to one another. Butter is 
used largely in the household as an article of food, for it is one of the 
most appetizing and digestible forms of fat. 

To supply the demand for butter, it is produced domestically in 
the home and on farms and commercially in dairies and large estab- 
lishments. The principle of all churns used for butter making is 
practically the same. They simply agitate the cream so that the 
butter-fat globules in it are brought together in masses of such size 
as to enable the butter maker to separate them from the buttermilk. 
Butter is seasoned, or salted, to give it a desirable flavor and to 
improve its keeping qualities ; it is washed, or worked, in order to 
distribute the salt evenly, to separate from it as much of the curd 
and other non-fatty constituents of the cream as can be conveniently 
removed, to bring it into a compact, waxy mass, and to give it tex- 
ture. The United States authorities have set a standard for the 
composition of butter, which allows this product to contain not more 
than 16 per cent, of water and requires it to have at least 82.5 per 
cent, of butter fat. 

2. Economical Use of Butter. — In the home, butter is used 
on the table and in the cooking of many foods. Hardly any article 
of food has such general use as this one; in fact, a meal is usually 
considered to be incomplete without it, both as an accompaniment to 

eorVRIOHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

S7 



2 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

bread, rolls, biscuits, or whatever variety of these is used, and as an 
ingredient in the cooking of some foods that require fat. But butter 
is not cheap, so that the wise and economical use of this food in the 
home is a point that should not be overlooked by the housewife. 
This precaution is very important, it having been determined that 
butter, as well as other fats, is wasted to a great extent ; and still 
it is true that no other material can be so economically utilized. The 
very smallest amount of any kind of fat should be carefully saved, 
for there are numerous uses to which it can be put. Even though 
it is mixed with other food, it can always be melted out, clarified — 
that is, freed from foreign substances — and then used for some 
purpose in cooking. The chief way in which butter is wasted is in 
the unnecessary and improper use of it, points that a little careful 
thought will do much to remedy. 

3. Flavor and Composition of Butter. — That the house- 
wife may have an understanding of the food substances found in 
butter and also learn how to determine the quantity of butter needed 
for her family, she should become familiar with the composition 
of this food. The flavor of butter depends to a great extent on 
the kind of cream from which it is made, both sweet and sour cream 
being used for this purpose. Of these two kinds, sour cream is the 
preferable one, because it gives to the butter a desirable flavor. Still, 
the unsalted butter that is made from sweet cream is apparently 
growing in favor, although it is usually more expensive than salted 
butter. The difference in price is due to the fact that unsalted butter 
spoils readily. 

4. So far as its food substances are concerned, butter is com- 
posed largely of fat, but it also contains water, protein in the form 
of casein, and mineral matter. The quantity of water contained in 
butter determines to a large extent the weight of butter, since water 
is heavier than fat ; but as only 16 per cent, of water is allowed, butter 
that contains more water than this is considered to be adulterated. 
As very little milk is retained in butter, only a small percentage of 
protein is found in this food. However, a considerable quantity of 
mineral salts are present, and these make it more valuable than most 
of the other fats. Because of the nature of its composition — a very 
high percentage of fat and a low percentage of protein — ^butter is 
distinctly a fuel food, that is, a heat-producing food. Of course, 
there are cheaper fats, some of which are even better heat-producing 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 3 

foods than butter, but as their flavor is not especially agreeable to 
some persons, they are not usfid so extensively. 

In view of the nature of the composition of this food, an ounce of 
butter a day is the average allowance for each person when the diet 
of a family contains meat and such other fats as lard, olive oil, etc. 
At the most, i pound of butter should be purchased each week for 
each member of the family for table use, and fats cheaper than butter 
should be used for cooking purposes. 

5. Purchasing Butter. — As in the case of milk, in order that 
the housewife may judge the quality of the butter she purchases, she 
will do well to look into the cleanliness and sanitary condition of the 
dairy that produces it. Too much attention cannot be given to this 
matter, for if cream becomes contaminated from careless handling, 
the same contamination is liable to occur in the butter made from it. 
Butter that is produced in dairies that make large quantities of it 
usually has not much opportunity to become contaminated before it 
reaches the consumer, for it is generally pressed into 1 -pound prints, 
and each one of these is then wrapped and placed in a paper carton. 
On the other hand, the farmer and the dairyman doing a small 
business do not find it profitable to install the equipment required 
to put up butter in this way, so they usually pack their butter into 
firkins or crocks or make it into rolls. When such butter goes to 
market, it is generally placed in a refrigerator with more butter of 
the same sort, some of which is good and some bad. As butter 
absorbs any strong odor present in the refrigerator and is perhaps 
cut and weighed in a most unsanitary manner, the good becomes 
contaminated with the bad. While butter of this kind is perhaps a 
few cents cheaper than that which is handled in a more sanitary way, 
it is less desirable, and if possible should be avoided by the house- 
wife. In case butter is obtained from a certain farm, the conditions 
on that farm should be looked into for the same reason that the con- 
ditions in a dairy are investigated. 

6. To be able to select good butter, the housewife should also 
be familiar with its characteristics. In color, butter to be good 
should be an even yellow, neither too pale nor too bright, and should 
contain no streaks. The light streaks that are sometimes found in 
butter indicate insufficient working. As to odor, butter should be 
pleasing and appetizing, any foreign or strong, disagreeable odor 
being extremely objectionable. Stale butter or that which is improp- 



4 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

erly kept develops an acid called butyric acid, which gives a disagree- 
able odor and flavor to butter and often renders it unfit for use. 

7. Care of Butter. — The precautions that the farmer and 
dairyman are called on to observe in the making and handling of 
butter should be continued by the housewife after she purchases but- 
ter for home use. The chief point for her to remember is that butter 
should be kept as cold as possible, because a low temperature pre- 
vents it from spoiling, whereas a high one causes it to become soft 
and less appetizing. The most satisfactory place in which to keep 
butter is the refrigerator, where it should be placed in the compart- 
ment located directly under the ice and in which the milk is kept, for 
here it will not come in contact with foods that might impart their 
flavors to it. Should no refrigerator be available, some other means 
of keeping butter cold must be resorted to, such as a cool cellar or 
basement or a window box. 

The way in which butter is bought determines to a certain extent 
the method of caring for it. If it is bought in paper cartons, it should 
be rewrapped and replaced in the carton each time some is cut off 
for use. In case it is bought in bulk, it should never be allowed to 
remain in the wooden dish in which it is often sold ; rather, it should 
be put into a crock or a jar that can be tightly covered. 

8. Attention should also be given to butter that is cut from the 
supply for the table or for cooking purposes and that is not entirely 
used. Such butter should never be returned to the original supply, 
but should be kept in a separate receptacle and used for cooking. 
If it contains foreign material, it can be clarified by allowing it to 
stand after it has melted until this has settled and then dipping or 
pouring the clear fat from the top. Butter that has become rancid 
or has developed a bad flavor need not be wasted either, for it can 
be made ready for use in cooking simply by pouring boiling water 
over it, allowing it to cool, and then removing the layer of fat that 
comes to the top. Such butter, of course, cannot be used for serving 
on the table. Still, consideration on the part of the housewife to just 
such matters as these will prevent much of the waste that prevails 
in the household in the use of this food. 

9. Cooking: With Butter. — While some housewives make it 
a practice to use butter in cooking of all kinds, there are uses in 
which other fats are preferable ; or, in case butter is desired, there 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE .5 

are certain points to be observed in its use. For instance, butter is 
rendered less digestible by cooking it at a high temperature, as in 
frying or sauteing ; also, it cannot be used to any extent for the fry- 
ing of foods, as it burns very readily. If it is used for sauteing, the 
dish is made much more expensive than is necessary, so that in most 
cases a cheaper fat should be employed for this purpose. In addition, 
a point to remember is that this fat should not be used to grease the 
pans in which cakes and hot breads are baked unless it is first melted, 
because the milk contained in the butter burns easily; after it is 
melted, only the top fat should be used. When butter is desired for 
very rich cakes and for pastry, it is usually washed in cold water to 
remove the milk. To neutralize the sour milk contained in butter 
that is used for baking purposes, a little soda is sometimes employed. 

Further economy can be exercised in the use of butter if a little 
thought is given to the matter. For instance, when butter is melted 
and poured over meat or fish that has been broiled or over vege- 
tables that have been cooked in a plain way, much of it usually 
remains in the dish and is wasted. Such butter can be utilized 
again. Since butter undergoes a change when it is cooked, it should 
be mixed with cooked foods to flavor them, rather than be subjected 
to the temperature necessary for cooking. 

When butter is used for spreading sandwiches, it usually will be 
found advisable to soften the butter by creaming it with a spoon, but 
it should never be melted for this purpose. 

10. Serving Butter. — ^When butter is used for the table, some 
consideration must be given to the serving of it. Probably the most 
usual way of serving butter is to place a slice of it on a plate and 
then pass the plate with a knife to each person at the table. The 
advantage of this method is that each person can take the amount 
desired and thus prevent waste. However, a still more desirable 
way of serving butter that is to be passed is to cut it into small cubes 
or squares or to shape it into small balls and then serve it with a 
fork or a butter knife. To prevent the pieces or balls of butter from 
melting in warm weather, cracked ice may be placed on the butter 
dish with them. Butter cut into cubes or squares may also be served 
on an individual butter dish or an individual bread-and-butter plate 
placed at each person's place before the meal is served. Whichever 
plan is adopted, any fragments of butter that remain on the plates 
after a meal should be gathered up and used for cooking purposes. 



6 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 




Fig. 1 



11. Butter that comes in pound prints lends itself readily to the 
cutting of small cubes or squares for serving. Such butter may be 

cut by drawing a 
string through the 
print or by using a 
knife whose cutting 
edge is covered with 
paper, a small piece 
of the oiled paper 
such as that in which 
the butter is wrapped answering very well for this purpose. 

If butter balls are desired for serving, they may be rolled with 
butter paddles in the manner shown in Fig. 1. To make butter balls, 
put wads of the butter to be used into ice water so as to make them 
hard. Then place each wad between the paddles, as shown, and give 
the paddles a circular motion. After a little practice, it will be a 
simple matter to make butter balls that will add to the attractiveness 
of any meal. Paddles made especially for this purpose can be pur- 
chased in all stores that sell kitchen utensils. 

12. Sometimes, for practical purposes, it is desired to know the 
quantity of butter that is served to each person. In the case of print 
butter, this is a simple matter to determine. As shown in Fig. 2, 
first mark the pound print in the center in order to divide it in half ; 
after cutting it into two pieces, cut each half into two, and finally 
each fourth into two. With the pound print cut into eight pieces, 



^ij^^H 


5 







Fig. 2 



divide and cut each eighth into four pieces. As there will be thirty- 
two small pieces, each one will represent -^ pound, or ^ ounce. 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



BUTTER SUBSTITUTES 

13. In about the year 1870, through a desire to procure a cheaper 
article than butter for the poorer classes of France, came the manu- 
facture of the first substitute for butter. Since that time the use of 
butter substitutes has gradually increased, until at the present time 
millions of pounds are consumed every year. A certain amount of 
prejudice against their use exists, but much of this is unnecessary 
for they are less likely to be contaminated with harmful bacteria 
than the poorer qualities of butter. Then, too, they do not spoil so 
readily, and for this reason they can be handled with greater con- 
venience than butter. 

14. Oleomargarine. — The best substitute for butter and the 
one most largely used is called oleomargarine, which in the United 
States alone constitutes about 2^ per cent, of all the fat used as but- 
ter. This fat is called by various other names, such as margarine and 
butterine, but oleomargarine is the name by which the United States 
authorities recognize the product. It is made by churning fats other 
than butter fat with milk or cream until a butterlike consistency is 
obtained. Originally, pure beef fat was employed for this purpose, 
and while beef fat is used to a great extent at present, lard, cotton- 
seed oil, coconut oil, and peanut oil are also used. Whatever fats 
are selected are churned with milk, cream, and, for the finest grades, 
a considerable percentage of the very best pure butter. After they 
are churned, the oleomargarine is worked, salted, and packed in the 
same manner as butter. 

15. The manufacture and sale of butter substitutes are con- 
trolled by laws that, while they do not specify the kind of fat to be 
used, state that all mixtures of butter with other fats must be sold 
as oleomargarine. They also require that a tax of 10 cents a pound 
be paid on all artificially colored oleomargarine; therefore, while 
coloring matter is used in some cases, this product is usually sold 
without coloring. In such an event, coloring matter is given with 
each pound of oleomargarine that is sold. Before using the oleomar- 
garine, this coloring matter is simply worked into the fat until it is 
evenly colored. 

16. Renovated Butter. — Another substitute that is sometimes 
used to take the place of the best grades of butter is renovated, or 



S MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

process, butter. This is obtained by purifying butter that is dirty 
and rancid and that contains all sorts of foreign material and then 
rechurning it with fresh cream or milk. The purifying process con- 
sists in melting the butter, removing the scum from the top, as well 
as the buttermilk, brine, and foreign materials that settle, and then 
blowing air through the fat to remove any odors that it might con- 
tain. Butter that is thus purified is replaced on the market, but in 
some states the authorities have seen fit to restrict its sale. While 
such restrictions are without doubt justifiable, it is possible to buy 
butter that is more objectionable than renovated, or process, butter, 
but that has no restriction on it. 

17. Method of Testing Butter Substitutes. — ^Very often 
oleomargarine and process butter bear such a close resemblance to 
genuine butter that it is almost impossible to detect the difference. 
However, there is a simple test by which these substitutes can always 
be distinguished from butter, and this should be applied whenever 
there is any doubt about the matter. To make this test, place the fat 
in a tablespoon or a small dish and heat it directly over the flame 
until it boils, stirring it occasionally to assist in the melting. If it is 
oleomargarine or process butter, it will sputter noisily and take on a 
curdled appearance; whereas, if it is butter, it will melt and even 
boil without sputtering although it foams to a certain extent. 



CHEESE 



CHARACTERISTICS AND CARE OF CHEESE 
18. Origin, Production, and Use of Cheese. — Cheese is a 
product that is manufactured from the solids of milk, and it pro- 
vides a valuable food. The making of cheese was known in ancient 
times, it having probably originated through a desire to utilize an 
oversupply of milk. When cheese was first made, the fact that 
bacteria were present was not known, nor were the reasons for the 
spoiling of milk understood ; but it was learned that milk can be kept 
if most of its water is removed. This discovery was very important, 
for it led to various methods of making cheese and proved that 
cheese making was a satisfactory and convenient means of storing 
nourishment in a form that was not bulky and that would keep for 
long periods of time. From a very small beginning, the different 



§7 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



methods of making cheese became popular, until at the present time 
more than three hundred varieties are made and their manufacture 
forms one of the large industries of the world. 

In the United States, nearly all the cheese used up to about 
50 years ago was made on farms, and to a great extent by house- 
wives, but about that time a factory for the making of this product 
was started in the state of New York, and it proved a profitable 
enterprise. From this beginning, the business of making cheese com- 
mercially in this country has grown until now cheese is almost 
entirely a factory-made product, in the manufacture of which the 
states of New York and Wisconsin lead. 

19. In either the commercial or the home production of cheese, 
skim milk with all or part of the cream removed is used for some 
varieties, while whole milk 
is used for others, the com- 
position depending largely 
on the kind of milk that is 
employed. Rennet is added 
to the milk to coagulate it, 
and then the curd, from 
which nearly all the water 
is removed, is allowed to 
ripen. To produce charac- 
teristic odors, flavors, and 
consistency, various color- 
ing and flavoring materials, as well as bacteria, are added to the 
curd. The action of these bacteria is really the chief factor in the 
making of cheese and they are therefore not only desirable but 
necessary. Non-desirable bacteria, however, result in the formation 
of bad odors, flavors, and gases in the finished product and these 
must be carefully guarded against by cheese makers. 

20. Cheese offers a valuable source of nutriment for the body, 
because its food value ranks high. As is shown in Fig. 3, the food 
value in 1 pound of cheese is equivalent to that in 2 pounds of beef, 
that in 24 eggs, or that in 4 pounds of fish. The use of cheese, how- 
ever, is not nearly so great as its food value warrants, the amount 
used in the United States per capita being only about 34 pounds 
annually. This is a condition that should be overcome, for there is 
a large variety of ways in which cheese can be used to advantage 




Pounds oj Fish 



10 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

in the diet. When eaten raw, it is very appetizing, and when used 
with soups, sauces, and foods that have a bland taste, it lends addi- 
tional flavor and makes an especially attractive dish. In addition, 
the fact that it is an economical food and can be conveniently kept 
and stored should recommend its frequent use. 

21. Composition of Cheese. — Since cheese is a product of 
milk, it is somewhat similar to milk in composition, but the change 
that occurs in the formation of cheese causes some differences. 
Nearly all the water present in milk is removed during the manu- 
facture of cheese, so that this product becomes a concentrated food 
made up of all the nourishment that milk contains except small 
amounts of albumin, milk sugar, and mineral matter. These, because 
they are in solution in the water, are lost when the whey is sepa- 
rated from the curd. The food substances that occur in the largest 
amounts are fat and protein in the form of casein, which is the 
tissue-building material of milk. Cheese made from milk that con- 
tains some cream has in it a greater amount of fat than that made 
from completely skimmed milk. Besides these two chief food sub- 
stances, cheese contains a small amount of milk sugar, mineral 
matter, and water. 

22. On account of the large quantity of protein found in cheese, 
this food can readily take the place of meat in the diet ; in fact, it has 
some decided advantages over meat. As has been pointed out, 
cheese yields more than twice as much food value as an equal weight 
of beef. Then, too, the buying and care of cheese are much simpler 
matters than the buying and care of meat. As it does not require 
the low temperature that meat requires and does not spoil so readily, 
it can be bought in considerable quantity and used as desired without 
danger of spoiling and loss. In addition, the use of cheese as food 
does not require so much skill in preparation as meat does, nor is 
there loss of flavor and nutriment in its preparation, as is often the 
case with meat. 

23. Quality of Cheese. — Every variety of cheese has its own 
standard and quality, some being hard and dry, others moist, and 
still others very soft. The difference in quality is due to the way in 
which the curd is coagulated, the amount of pressure that is put on 
it, and the ripening of the cheese. The holes that often occur in 
cheese and give it a porous appearance are formed by gas, which is 
the product of the growth of bacteria. A large number of very 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 11 

small holes in cheese indicate that the milk used to make it was not 
clean and contained many kinds of bacteria. This condition could 
be overcome by the use of absolutely clean milk ; indeed, milk of this 
kind is as necessary for the production of good cheese as it is for 
the making of good butter. Certain cheeses, such as Limburger and 
Roquefort, have a typical odor and flavor, the odor being due to 
bacteria and the flavor to mold. These are carefully grown and 
introduced into the cheese during its manufacture. 

24. Care of Cheese. — The very strong odor and flavor that 
characterize cheese make it necessary that care be given to cheese 
in the home in order to prevent it from coming in contact with 
other foods and transmitting its odor and flavor to them. The 
best place to keep cheese, particularly the soft varieties, is in the 
refrigerator, where it should be placed in a closed receptacle and 
kept as far as possible from foods that are easily tainted. It is well 
to avoid a damp place for the keeping of cheese, as mold frequently 
develops on the outside when too much moisture is present ; but 
in case mold does appear it can be removed by cutting a thin slice 
from the side on which it has grown. On the other hand, cheese 
that is kept in a dry place becomes hard and dry unless it is wrapped 
in oiled paper or a damp cloth. However, such cheese need not be 
thrown away, for there are numerous uses, particularly in cooking, to 
which it can be put. 

KINDS OF CHEESE 



CLASSIFICATION OF VARIETIES 

25. The cheese used in the United States may be included under 
two leading classes, namely, foreign cheese and domestic cheese. 
Since the foreign cheeses are imported, they are more expensive 
than the cheeses made here, and should not be bought if cheese is to 
be used as an economical article of food. They are valuable chiefly 
for their flavor and are generally bought for this reason. The 
domestic cheeses can be used in larger quantities, for, besides being 
less expensive, they are usually of a milder type and are more easily 
digested. To enable the housewife to become familiar with the prin- 
cipal varieties of each of these classes, a discussion of them, includ- 
ing their names, characteristics, and, in some cases, their use and the 



12 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § ^ 

method of making, is here given. In addition, there are shown m 
colors, in Fig. 4, a large number of cheeses, together with a print 
of butter o, which serves to illustrate the irregular surface that is 
exposed when good butter is broken apart. 



IMPORTED CHEESE 

26. Each of the European countries has originated its own 
peculiar kind of cheese, which remains representative of a certain 
people or locality. The majority of these cheeses have met with so 
much favor in the United States that large quantities of them are 
continually imported. A few of them have been copied here with 
success, but others have not been successfully made. While these 
are not in such common use as the domestic cheeses, it is well for 
every one to know their names and the characteristics by which they 
can be identified. 

27. English Cheese. — Chief among the kinds of cheeses 
made in England is Cheddar cheese, which is illustrated at a, 
Fig. 4. It is rich, double-thick cream cheese, ranging from a pale 
to a dark yellow, although when uncolored it may be white. Such 
cheese, when fresh, has a milk flavor, but when it is well ripened it 
has a characteristic sharp taste. New Cheddar cheese is soft, but 
not waxy, in texture and may readily be shaved or broken into small 
pieces ; when it is well ripened, it may be grated. English Cheddar 
cheese is not unlike American Cheddar cheese, or, as it is com- 
monly called, American cream cheese, which is shown by h. In fact 
the American variety is made according to the method used for the 
English. Owing to its characteristics, flavor, and abundance, Cheddar 
cheese, both English and American, is the kind that is used most 
extensively in the United States. 

Eng^lish dairy cheese, shown at d, is similar to Cheddar cheese, 
although it has a reddish color and, on account of the method of 
manufacture, it is harder. This kind of cheese lends itself well to 
cooking, as it may be easily grated. 

Cheshire cheese, a well-known English variety, is a dry cream 
cheese made from whole cow's milk. It is deep yellow or red in 
color, similar in flavor to Cheddar cheese, and is used in much the 
same manner. 

Stilton cheese, shown at m, is a hard cheese made from cow's 
milk to which cream has been added and which is coagulated with 



. — ^ 


j-__ 


.i*r* 


-^■■' -- 






^ 




1^ 




' - f 






2C §7 



Fig. ( 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 13 

rennet. Mold is introduced into this cheese, so that it resembles 
Roquefort cheese, which is shown at /. 

28. Holland Cheese. — The variety of cheese shown at e. 
Fig. 4, is known as Edam cheese. It is a hard rennet cheese of a 
red color and is mild in flavor. This kind of cheese is molded into 
the shape of a ball, the outside of which is usually dyed red, and will 
keep for a long period of time. Edam cheese is one of the important 
products of the Netherlands, and while it is seldom used in cookery 
in the homes of this country, it is served at the table. Usually a 
section of the top is cut off to serve as a lid while the inside is 
scooped out as needed. Sometimes, after most of the cheese has 
been removed, the hollow shell is stuffed with macaroni or rice that 
has been cooked and seasoned and the food then baked in the shell. 

29. French Cheeses. — Among the French cheeses, the variety 
called Gruyere cheese, which is shown at /, Fig. 4, is well liked. 
It is usually made of skim milk, has a yellow color and a mild, 
sweetish flavor, and contains large holes like those found in Swiss 
and Emmenthal cheeses, varieties that are very similar to it. Like 
these cheeses, Gruyere cheese may be used in cooking or served with- 
out cooking, being used considerably in the making of sandwiches. 

Brie cheese is a French variety of very soft cheese, with a strong 
flavor and odor. It is made from whole or partly skimmed cow's 
milk coagulated by means of rennet. This kind of cheese is used 
mostly as an accompaniment to other foods. 

Camembert cheese, which is shown at h, is also a soft cheese. 
It is made by practically the same process as Brie cheese and is used 
in the same way. This cheese has a typical odor. Its rind is thick 
and dry, but its center is very soft, being sometimes almost liquid. 

Neufchatel cheese, which is shown at i, is a soft rennet cheese 
made from cow's milk. It is made at Neufchatel-en-Bray, France, 
and not at Neufchatel, Switzerland. This variety of cheese is 
wrapped in tin-foil and sold in small packages. It is used chiefly for 
salads, sandwiches, etc. As it does not keep well after the package 
is opened, the entire contents should be used at one time. 

Roquefort cheese, which is shown at /, is a hard, highly flavored 
cheese made from sheep's milk coagulated with rennet. It has a 
marbled appearance, which is due to a greenish mold that is intro- 
duced. Roquefort cheese is frequently served with crackers at the 
end of a meal, and is well liked by many persons. 



14 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

30. Italian Cheeses. — From Italy is imported a cheese, called 
Parmesan cheese, that is used extensively for flavoring soups and 
macaroni dishes. This cheese, which is shown at g, Fig. 4, is very 
hard and granular and, provided it is well made, it will keep for 
years. Owing to its characteristics, it may be easily grated. It can 
be bought by the pound and grated as it is needed, or it can be 
secured already grated in bottles. 

Gorgonzola, another Italian cheese, is shown at k. It is not 
unlike Roquefort in appearance and in use, but it is made from whole 
cow's milk coagulated with rennet. Into this cheese is also intro- 
duced a mold that gives its center a streaked or mottled appearance. 

31. Swiss Cheeses. — Possibly the best known cheese imported 
from Switzerland is the variety known as Swiss, or Switzer, 
cheese. This kind of cheese has different names, depending on the 
district of Switzerland in which it is made. Nevertheless all of 
them are similar and have a mild, sweet flavor. Swiss cheese may 
be readily recognized by its pale yellow color and the presence of 
large holes, although it resembles Gruyere cheese very closely. 

Emmenthal cheese is a variety of fairly hard cheese that origi- 
nated in Switzerland, but is now made in many other countries. It 
is similar to Swiss cheese, being made from whole cow's milk and 
characterized by large holes about 3 inches apart. 

Sapsag'o cheese, shown at n, Fig. 4, is a skim-milk cheese made 
in Switzerland. It is a very hard cheese, and therefore suitable for 
grating. In the process of making this cheese, melilot, a clover-like 
herb, is added, and this gives the cheese a green color and a peculiar 
flavor. 

32. Belgian Cheese.' — A cheese that originated in Belgium, 
but is now manufactured in other countries, is the variety known as 
Limburg:, or Limburger, cheese, which is shown at I, Fig. 4. 
It is a soft rennet cheese made from whole cow's milk. It is very 
strong in taste and smell, due to putrefactive germs that are added 
to the milk in its manufacture. 



DOMESTIC cheese: 

33. In the United States, efforts that have been exerted to make 
cheeses similar to some of those produced in Europe have to a cer- 
tain extent been successful. American cheese makers have succeeded 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 15 

in making several soft cream cheeses that resemble Neufchatel, some 
of which are spiced or flavored with pimiento, olives, etc. In addi- 
tion, Limburg and Swiss cheeses have been successfully manufac- 
tured in Wisconsin, and Brie, Neufchatel, and Camembert have been 
copied and are produced in New York. Pineapple cheese, while of 
American origin, is really very much like English Cheddar cheese, 
except that it is harder. But while these fancy cheeses are desired 
by some persons and have a moderately large sale, the cheese for 
which there is the most demand in America is the so-called American 
Cheddar cheese, which, as has been stated, is made according to the 
method used for English Cheddar cheese. 

34. American Cheddar Clieese. — Since American Cheddar 
cheese is the kind that is commonly used in this country, the way in 
which it is made will be well to know. The milk used for this kind 
of cheese is first inspected as to cleanliness and the extent of fermen- 
tation it has undergone, and when these points are ascertained, it is 
ripened; that is, allowed to sour to a certain degree of acidity. At 
this stage, coloring matter is added, after which the milk is prepared 
for setting by bringing it to a certain temperature. With the temper- 
ature at the right point, rennet is added to coagulate the milk, or form 
the curd. The milk is then allowed to remain undisturbed until the 
action of the rennet is at a certain point, when the curd is cut into 
little cube-shaped pieces by drawing two sets of knives through it 
and thus is separated from the whey. As soon as the curd is cut, the 
temperature of the mass is raised to help make the curd firm and to 
cause the little cubes to retain their firmness, and during the entire 
heating process the whole mass is stirred constantly to assist in the 
separation from the whey. When the curd is sufficiently firm, the 
whey is removed and the particles of curd are allowed to adhere and 
form into a solid mass. If necessary, the curd is cut again into small 
pieces to get rid of the excess whey ; but if the curd is too dry, the 
pieces must be piled up until they are four or five deep. During this 
process, which is known as the cheddaring of the cheese, the curd 
is treated until it is of the proper texture to be milled, that is, put 
into a mill and ground into small pieces. The object of milling the 
curd is to cut it into pieces small enough to permit of uniform salting 
and the further escape of whey. When the curd has been brought 
to this point, it is salted and then pressed into molds. Finally, it is 
wrapped and cured, or ripened. 



16 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

35. Brick Cheese. — Another American cheese that seems to 
meet with a popular demand is brick cheese. This kind of cheese, 
which is illustrated at c, Fig. 4, gets its name from the fact that it 
is pressed into "bricks" under the weight of one or two bricks. It is 
made from sweet milk, coagulated with rennet, cut with curd knives, 
and heated in the whey to firm it. Brick cheese is mild in flavor and 
of a moderately close texture. It is used chiefly as an accompani- 
ment to other foods. 

36. American Home-Made Cheese. — ^The making of 
Cheddar cheese and brick cheese is, of course, done commercially, 
but there is a kind of cheese that can be made very conveniently in 
the home. This home-made cheese, which is generally known as 
cottage cheese, affords an excellent way in which to utilize left- 
over sour milk, particularly if a quart or more can be obtained at one 
time ; smaller quantities can generally be used for baking purposes. 

If properly made, such cheese is very 
digestible. As it can be seasoned and 
served in a variety of ways, it makes a 
delightful addition to lunches or other 
light meals in which a protein dish, such 
as meat, is undesirable. Skim milk does 
very well for this kind of cheese, so that 
^"'•^ if the sour milk that is to be used has 

cream on it, the cream should be removed before the cheese is made ; 

otherwise, it will remain in the whey and be lost. In case cream is 

desired to improve the texture and flavor of the cheese, it should 

be added after the cheese is made. 

37. To make cottage cheese, allow a quantity of sour milk to 
clabber, that is, become curdled, and then place it on the back of the 
stove in a thick vessel, such as a crock, until the whey begins to 
appear on the top, turning it occasionally so that it will heat very 
slowly and evenly. Do not allow the temperature to rise above 
90 degrees Fahrenheit, or the curd will become tough and dry. 
Remember that the two things on which the success of this product 
depends are the flavor of the milk used and the proper heating of it. 
No difficulty will be encountered in the heating of the milk if a coal 
or a wood stove is used, but in case a gas stove must be used, the 
vessel containing the milk should be placed in a larger one containing 
warm water and the milk should be heated in this manner until the 




§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 17 

curd and the whey begin to separate. At this point, pour off all the 
whey possible, and turn the curd into a cloth bag or a colander lined 
with cloth, as shown in Fig. 5, and allow any remaining whey to 
drip out. If, after the whey is removed, the curd tastes sour, wash it 
with warm water and allow it to drip again. Then season it with 
salt to suit the taste and, provided cream is desired, add it at this 
time, using sweet or sour cream. To work in the cream, press it 
into the curd with a spoon until the cheese is quite smooth. 

Cheese made in this way may be flavored with anything desirable. 
For instance, chopped pimiento, parsley, olives, or nuts improve the 
flavor of the cheese very much and make a very appetizing combi- 
nation. The dry curd mixed with any of these makes a delightful 
salad when it is pressed into balls, garnished with lettuce, and served 
with salad dressing. 

38. Junket Cottage Clieese. — Another variety of cottage 
cheese can be prepared by using sweet milk and forming the curd 
with a junket tablet, one tablet being required for each quart of milk. 
To make cheese of this kind, heat the milk until it is lukewarm, or 
not over 98 degrees Fahrenheit, and then add the junket tablet dis- 
solved in cold milk or water. Keep the milk warm until the curd 
forms, and then break up the curd with a spoon and pour the whole 
mass into a bag or a colander lined with cloth. When all the whey 
is drained out, the curd, which will be sweet, can be seasoned in any 
desired way or mixed with cream and served. If more flavor is 
preferred, the curd may be allowed to sour or may be mixed with 
sour cream. 

39. Buttermilk Cream Cheese. — A slight variation from 
the cottage cheeses just described is buttermilk cream cheese. This 
cheese is formed from the curd of buttermilk, which is finer in texture 
and not so likely to become tough as that formed from ordinary sour 
milk. To prepare buttermilk cream cheese, warm the buttermilk 
slowly, being careful not to allow the temperature to rise beyond 
100 degrees Fahrenheit. As the milk is heated, the curd will form 
and will gradually sink to the bottom of the vessel. After this 
occurs, remove the whey and mix the curd with a little thick cream. 
The result will be a mixture having a delightfully creamy con- 
sistency. 



w 



18 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 



SERVING CHEESE 

40. Cheese does not lend itself readily to many ways of serving, 
still it frequently adds zest to many foods. When grate<l, it may 
be passed with tomato or vegetable soup and sprinkled in to impart 
an unusual flavor. In this form it may also be served with macaroni 
and other Italian pastes, provided cheese has not been included in the 
preparation of such foods. When sliced, little slices may be served 
nicely with any kind of pie or pastry and with some puddings, such 
as steamed fruit puddings. Thin slices or squares of cheese and 
crackers served with coffee after the dessert add a finishing touch 
to many meals. It will be well to note that crackers to be served 
with cheese should always be crisp. Unless they have just been 
taken from a fresh package, crackers can be improved by placing 
them in a moderate oven for a few minutes before serving. Also, 
firm crackers that do not crumble easily are best to serve with cheese, 
water crackers being especially desirable. 



RECIPES FOR CHEESE DISHES 



EFFECT OP COOKING ON CHEESE 

41. Because cheese is a highly concentrated food, it is generally 
considered to be indigestible; but this matter can be remedied by 
mixing the cheese with other foods and thus separating it into small 
particles that are more readily digested. The way in which this may 
be done depends on the nature of the cheese. Any of the dry cheeses 
or any of the moist cheeses that have become dry may be grated or 
broken into bits, but as it is difficult to treat the moist ones in this 
way, they must be brought to a liquid state by means of heat before 
they can be added to other foods. The cooking of cheese, however, 
has an effect on this food that should be thoroughly understood. 

It will be well to note, therefore, that the application of heat to 
the form of protein found in cheese causes this food substance to 
coagulate and harden, as in the case of the albumen of eggs. In the 
process of coagulation, the first effect is the melting of the cheese, 
and when it has been brought to this semiliquid state it can be easily 
combined with other foods, such as milk, eggs, soups, and sauces. 
In forming such combinations, the addition of a smal\ amount of 



§7 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



19 



bicarbonate of soda helps to blend the foods. Another characteristic 
of cheese that influences the cooking of it is that the fat it contains 
melts only at a low temperature, so that, on the whole, the methods 
of preparation that require a low temperature are the best for cook- 
ing these foods. However, a precaution that should be taken when- 
ever cheese is heated is not to cook it too long, for long cooking 
makes it hard and leathery in consistency, and cheese in this state is 
difficult to digest. 




VARIETY OF CHEEiSE: DISHBS 

42. As has already been learned, cheese lends itself very 
readily to a large variety of cooked dishes. For instance, it may be 
grated and sprinkled on the top of mashed or creamed potatoes and 
then browned by placing the dish in the oven. When it is grated or 
sliced, it may be 
arranged between the 
layers of macaroni or 
other food used to 
make a scalloped dish. 
Soups and sauces fla- 
vored with cheese are 
especially appetizing, 
a cream sauce of this 
kind served over toast 
or rice making an ex- 
cellent luncheon dish. 
Toast or crackers spread with cheese and placed in the oven just 
long enough for the cheese to melt are delicious to serve with a salad 
course or with tea. To assist in the preparation of such combina- 
tions, as well as other cheese dishes, a number of recipes are here 
given. In making up these recipes, it will be well to note that unless 
the variety of cheese is stated explicitly, use should be made of 
American Cheddar cheese, or, as it is often called, American cream 
cheese, or store cheese. Of course, some similar hard cheese could 
be used if desired, but the kind mentioned is recommended for the 
sake of economy. 

43. Cheese Bonbons. — A combination of cheese and nuts in 
the form of cheese bonbons, besides being very tasty, is highly nutri- 
tious, since both the cheese and the nuts used in making them are 



Fig. 6 



20 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

high in food value. Such bonbons, which are illustrated in Fig. 6, 
may be served with a light salad, such as a vegetable or a fruit salad, 
to add food value to the dish, or they may be served with wafers to 
take the place of a salad, when a small amount of some kind of tart 
jelly goes nicely with them. If the dessert for the dinner has been 
a very light one, these bonbons may be served with coffee and wafers 
after the dessert. They may be made as follows : 

Cheese Bonbons 
(Sufficient for Twelve Bonbons) 

1 pkg. Neufchatel or cream ^ tsp. salt 

cheese Few grains of paprika 

2 Tb. finely chopped pimiento i c. half English-walnut meats 

Work the cheese smooth with the pimiento and other seasoning, 
and if the mixture is too dry add a little cream. Shape this into 
small balls, press each ball flat, and then place a half nut on top of 
each. If the pimiento is not desired, it may be omitted. 

44. Cheese Souffle. — As a dish that will take the place of 
meat in a light meal is often desired, cheese souffle, which is com- 
paratively high in food value, finds much favor. This dish contains 
milk, eggs, and cheese,- as is shown in the accompanying recipe, and 
so may actually be considered as a protein dish and used accord- 
ingly. Souffle is served in the dish in which it is baked, but if it is 
quite firm and is to be eaten at once, it may be removed from the 
ramekin to a plate. 

Cheese Souffle 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 Tb. butter Dash of paprika 

4 Tb. flour ^ tsp. salt 
1^ c. milk 3 eggs 

I c. grated cheese 

Melt the butter, add the flour, mix well, and then gradually add the 
milk, which should be scalded. To this sauce add the cheese, paprika, 
and salt. When thoroughly mixed, remove from the fire and add the 
beaten yolks of eggs, beating rapidly. Cool and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of the eggs. Pour into a buttered baking dish or in 
ramekins and bake 20 minutes in a slow oven. Serve at once. 

45. Cheese Omelet. — Grated cheese added to an omelet gives 
it a delightful flavor. Since such an omelet is a high-protein dish, it 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 21 

should never be served in the same meal in which meat, fish, or other 
protein foods are served, but should be used as the main dish of a 
luncheon or a light supper. 

Cheese Omelet 

(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

4 eggs 2 Tb. bread crumbs 

4 Tb. hot water 1 c. grated cheese 

i tsp. salt 1 Tb. butter 

Beat the egg yolks thoroughly and add to them the hot water, salt, 
crumbs, and cheese. Beat the egg whites until stiff, but not dry, and 
fold them carefully into the yolk mixture. Heat the butter in an 
omelet pan. Pour in the mixture, brown very slowly over the heat, 
and then place in the oven to cook the top. Serve at once. 

46. Cheese Sauce. — To give a distinctive flavor to white 
sauce, cheese is often added to it. A sauce flavored in this way lends 
itself nicely to the garnishing of croquettes or souffles, and it will be 
found quite tasty if it is served over some vegetables, such as 
steamed cauliflower, mashed potatoes, or rice served as a vegetable. 
Such sauce may also be served over toast to make an attractive 
luncheon dish. 

Cheese Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. milk i tsp. salt 

4 Tb. flour i tsp. paprika 

4 Tb. butter | c. grated cheese 

Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, butter, salt, and paprika, 
and to it add the grated cheese. If desired, a dash of catsup or chili 
sauce may be added for flavoring. 

47. Clieese Toast. — When toast has added to it eggs, milk, 
and cheese, as in the recipe here given, it is sufficiently high in protein 
to serve as a meat substitute and is a particularly good dish for a 
light meal. It combines well with a vegetable salad for luncheon 
and is an excellent dish to serve for Sunday night supper, when very 
little else need be served with it. 

Cheese Toast 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. milk I c. grated cheese 

4 Tb. flour 2 hard-cooked eggs 

4 Tb. butter 6 squares of toast 
■J tsp. salt 



22 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



§7 



Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, butter, and salt, and to it 
add i cupful of the grated cheese and the egg whites chopped fine. 
Arrange the toast on a platter, pour the sauce over it, sprinkle the 
top with the egg yolks that have been run through a ricer or a sieve, 
and sprinkle the remaining ^ cupful of cheese over all. Place in hot 
oven or under a broiler until the cheese melts a little. Serve hot. 

48. Welsh Rarebit. — Whenever a dish that can be made in a 
chafing dish is desired, Welsh rarebit is immediately thought of. 
This is possibly due to the fact that this tasty cheese dish is very 
often served at evening parties, when a crowd may gather around a 
table and enjoy the preparation of this food in the chafing dish. 
This kind of cooking utensil, together with its outfit, which consists 




Fig. 7 

of a long-handled spoon and fork, is shown in Fig. 7. As will be 
observed, a chafing dish consists of a frame to which is attached a 
lamp that provides the heat, a pan in which water is placed, another 
pan with a handle in which the food is cooked, and a cover. The 
heat for cooking is furnished by alcohol, although it is possible to 
get chafing dishes that are heated by electricity. Chafing dishes are 
used by many housewives, for in addition to the use mentioned, they 
serve very well for the making of practically any kind of creamed 
dish, including those in which sea foods and vegetables are used, as 
well as for the sauteing of foods. It should not be understood, how- 
ever, that Welsh rarebit must be made in a chafing dish, for this food 
can be prepared as well in a heavy frying pan or a double boiler ; 
nor should it be taken for granted that it is served only at parties, for 
it may be served as the main dish for luncheon or supper. Rarebit 



§7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 23 

is often flavored with ale or beer, but this is not required to make an 
appetizing dish, as the following recipe shows. 

Welsh Rarebit 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter ^ tsp. paprika 

1 Tb. flour I lb. cheese cut into small pieces 

1 c. milk 6 slices of toast or 6 wafers 
i tsp. salt 

Melt the butter, add to it the flour, and stir until smooth. Gradu- 
ally add the milk, and cook for a few minutes; then add the salt, 
paprika, and cheese, stirring until the cheese is melted. The finished 
rarebit should not be stringy. Pour over the toast or wafers and 
serve. 

49. I]ng:llsli Monkey.i — Another cheese dish that is fre- 
quently made in a chafing dish and served from it is English monkey, 
but this may likewise be made with ordinary kitchen utensils and 
served directly on plates from the kitchen or from a bowl on the 
table. A dish of this kind is most satisfactory if it is served as soon 
as the sauce is poured over toast or wafers and before they have had 
time to become soaked. English monkey may be made according to 
the following recipe and served for the same purposes as Welsh 
rarebit. 

English Monkey 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. bread crumbs 1 egg 

1 c. milk i tsp. salt 

1 Tb. butter 6 buttered wafers 

i c. soft cheese cut into small 
pieces 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Melt the butter and add to it 
the cheese, stirring until the cheese is melted. Then add the soaked 
crumbs, the slightly beaten egg, and the salt. Cook for a few minutes 
and pour over wafers and serve. If desired, toast may be used in 
place of the wafers. 

50. Clieese-and-Macaroni Loaf. — Macaroni combined with 
cheese makes a high-protein dish that very readily takes the place of 
meat and that may be served as the main dish in a dinner. If this 
combination is made into a loaf and baked well in an oblong bread 
pan, it may be turned out on a platter and cut into slices. In case a 
loaf is not desired, it may be baked in a baking dish and served 



24 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

directly from that. In either form, it is made more appetizing 
by the addition of a tomato sauce. 

Cheese-and-Macaroni Loaf 

(SuiRcient to Serve Eight) 

•J c. macaroni (inch lengths) 2 eggs 

1 c. milk 2 tsp. salt 

1 c. bread crumbs i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. chopped green peppers 1 c. grated cheese 
1 Tb. chopped onion 1 Tb. butter 

1 Tb. chopped parsley 
Cook the macaroni according to the directions given in Cereals. 
When it is thoroughly soft, drain off the water and mix the macaroni 
with the milk, bread crumbs, green pepper, onion, parsley, well- 
beaten egg, salt, pepper, and grated cheese. Place in a baking dish, 
dot the top with butter, and bake in a moderate oven until the mix- 
ture is set. Serve with or without sauce, as desired. 

51. Cheese Fondue. — A dish that is very similar to cheese 
souffle and that must be served as soon as it comes from the oven in 
order to avoid shrinking is cheese fondue. It satisfactorily takes the 
place of meat in a light meal, and may be served from a large dish or 
from individual baking dishes with or without sauce, as desired. 

Cheese Fondue 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1^ c. soft bread crumbs 4 eggs 

li c. grated cheese i tsp. salt 

1 c. hot milk 
Mix the bread crumbs and cheese, and add them to the hot milk, 

beaten egg yolks, and salt. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. 

Bake in a buttered baking dish for about 30 minutes in a moderate 

oven. Serve at once. 

52. Cheese Dreams. — If something delicious to serve with 
fruit or salad is desired for luncheon or Sunday night supper, the 
accompanying recipe for cheese dreams should be tried. They 
should be served at once on being taken from the stove, because as 
soon as they cool the cheese hardens and they are not appetizing. 
Cheese dreams may be sauted or prepared in a broiler or an oven, but 
if they are sauted, they may be made in a chafing dish. 

Cheese Dreams 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

12 thinly cut slices of bread Cheese sliced J in. thick 

Butter 



§7 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 



25 



Spread the bread thinly with butter and make sandwiches by plac- 
ing a slice of cheese between two slices of bread. Place these sand- 
wiches under a broiler or in a very hot oven and toast them on both 
sides, or omit the butter from the center, place the sandwiches in a 
slightly oiled frying pan, and brown them on both sides. In heating 
the sandwiches, the cheese melts. Serve hot. 

53. Cheese Wafers. — If made daintily, cheese wafers may 

be served with salad or with tea for afternoon tea. The wafers 

selected for this purpose should be small and the layer of cheese not 

very thick. If a very thin broth is served at the beginning of a meal, 

cheese wafers may accompany it, but they should never be served 

with a heavy soup. 

Cheese Wafers 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 doz. wafers f c. grated cheese 

Butter Paprika 

Spread the wafers thinly with butter and sprinkle each with 
1 tablespoonful of grated cheese and a pinch of paprika. Bake in a 
hot oven until the cheese is melted. Cool and serve. 

54. Cheese Stravrs. — Nothing can be more delightful to 
serve with a vegetable salad than cheese straws, which are illustrated 




Fig. 8 

in Fig. 8. An attractive way to serve them is to slip them through 
small rings made out of strips of the dough mixture and baked at the 
same time the straws are baked and then place them at the side of 
the salad plate. They may accompany a fruit salad, as well as a 
vegetable salad, but they are not appropriate for serving with a meat 
or a fish salad. 



26 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 

Cheese Straws 
(SufiScient to Serve Six) 

1 Tb. tutter | tsp. salt 

f c. flour i tsp. pepper 

1 c. bread crumbs Pinch of Cayenne pepper 

1 c. grated or cut cheese i c. milk 

Cream the butter and to it add the flour, bread crumbs, cheese, and 
seasonings. Mix thoroughly and add the milk. Roll i inch thick 
and then cut i inch wide and 6 inches long. Bake until brown in a 
moderately hot oven. 

55. Tomatoes With Cheese Stuffing. — The addition of 
cheese to the stuffing used in stuffed tomatoes means added flavor, 
as well as nutritive value in the form of protein, the food substance 
in which the tomatoes themselves are lacking. The bread crumbs 
used for the stuffing supply a large amount of carbohydrate, so that 
the completed dish, besides being a very attractive one, contains all 
the food principles in fairly large quantities. Stuffed tomatoes may 
be served as the main dish in a light meal or as a vegetable dish in a 
heavy meal. 

Tomatoes With Cheese Stuffing 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 tomatoes i tsp. pepper 

1 c. bread crumbs 2 Tb. butter 

1 c. grated cheese ^ c. hot water 
i tsp. salt 

Select medium-sized tomatoes and hollow out the centers. Mix 
the crumbs, cheese, salt, pepper, butter, and hot water with the pulp 
from the centers of the tomatoes. Fill the tomatoes with this stuff- 
ing, place in a pan, and bake in a moderate oven until the tomato can 
be pierced easily with a fork. Serve hot. 

56. Figs Stuffed With Cheese. — As cheese is a very con- 
centrated food, it is often combined with another food to offset this 
effect. An excellent combination is formed by stuffing figs with 
cheese. Figs prepared in this way will be found to be very attractive 
and tasty and may be served in the place of a dessert or a salad, 
depending on the kind and size of the meal with which they are used. 

Figs Stuffed With Cheese 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

I pkg. Neufchatel or cream 2 Tb. cream 

cheese 8 small pulled figs 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 27 

Work the cheese and cream until soft. Steam the figs for 10 or 
15 minutes or until they are soft ; then cool them, cut out their stems, 
fill their centers with the soft cheese, and serve. 

57. Cheese Sandwiches. — Very appetizing sandwiches that 
may be used to take the place of meat sandwiches or a protein dish 
at any time are made with a cheese filling. If these are made very 
small and dainty, they may be served with salad in a light meal. The 
addition of pickles, olives, and pimiento, which are included in the 
accompanying recipe, makes the filling more attractive than the usual 
plain cheese by producing in it a variety of tastes. They also add 
bulk, which is lacking in both the white bread and the cheese. If 
desired, graham or whole-wheat bread may be used in place of white 
bread. 

Cheese Sandwiches 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i lb. cheese i tsp. salt 

2 medium-sized pickles | tsp. paprika 

i pimiento Bread 

Meat from ^ doz. olives 
Put the cheese, pickles, pimiento, and olives through a food chop- 
per, and when chopped add the salt and the paprika. If the mixture 
is not moist enough to spread, add salad dressing or vinegar until it 
is of the right consistency. Mix well and spread on thinly cut, but- 
tered slices of bread. 



LUNCHEON MENU 

58. Many of the dishes for which recipes are given in this 
Section, particularly those including cheese as one of the ingredients, 
do very well for the main dish in a light meal, such as luncheon. In 
order that practice may be had in preparing a well-balanced luncheon 
that includes a dish of this kind, a luncheon menu is here presented. 
The cheese souffle, which has been selected as the main dish in this 
menu, should be made according to the directions already given. 
Little difficulty will be experienced in making the other dishes, as 
recipes for them are given immediately after the menu. All the 
recipes are intended for six persons, so that if more or fewer are 
to be served, the recipes should be changed accordingly. This 
menu is presented with the intention that it be tried by each student 
and a report of it then prepared according to the plan outlined and 
sent with the work of the Examination Questions. 



28 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE § 7 



MENU 

Cream-of-Corn Soup 
Cheese Souffle Sauted Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes Brown Bread and Butter 

Baked Apples 

Black Tea 



RECIPES 

Cream -OF-CoRN Soup 

1 Tb. flour 1 c. canned corn 

1 Tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 pt. milk -J tsp. pepper 

Make a white sauce of the flour, butter, and milk. Force the corn 
through a colander or sieve and add the puree to the white sauce. 
Season with the salt and pepper and serve. 

Sauted Potatoes 
6 medium-sized cooked potatoes 1^ tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

Slice the boiled potatoes thin and put the slices in a frying pan 
in which the butter has been melted. Add the salt and pepper. Allow 
the potatoes to cook until well browned, turning frequently during 
the cooking. Serve hot. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

1 Tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

1 small onion 2 Tb. sugar 

6 medium-sized ripe tomatoes i tsp. pepper 

or 1 can of tomatoes 1 Tb. flour 

Brown the butter in a saucepan, slice the onion into it, and cook 
for a few minutes. Add the tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are to be 
used, remove the skins, cut into pieces, put into the saucepan with a 
few tablespoonfuls of water, and cook until the tomatoes are thor- 
oughly softened. If canned tomatoes are to be used, merely allow 
them to come to the boiling point. Add the salt, sugar, and pepper, 
and, a few minutes before removing from the fire, moisten the flour 
with a tablespoonful of cold water and stir into the tomato. Cook 
for a few minutes and serve. 

Baked Apples 
6 medium-sized apples f c. sugar 

1 lemon i c. water 



§ 7 MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 29 

Wipe and core the apples. Put them into a baking dish and place 
a slice of lemon on the top of each. Make a sirup of the sugar and 
the water, pour this around the apples, and bake slowly until they 
can be pierced easily with a fork. Serve hot or cold, with a tea- 
spoonful of jelly on the top of each apple. 

Black Tea 
6 tsp. black tea 6 c. boiling water 

Scald out the pot with freshly boiling water, pour in the tea, add 
the 6 cupfuls of freshly boiling water, and allow it to stand on the 
leaves until the tea is strong enough to serve. Then either pour the 
tea ofif the leaves and keep it hot or serve at once. 



MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE 

(PART 2) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) From what part of milk is butter made? 

(2) WJiat food substances does butter contain? 

(3) Tell how to select good butter. 

(4) After butter is purchased, what care should be given to it? 

(5) (o) How does cooking affect butter? (6) How can economy be 
exercised in the use of butter in cooking? 

(6) How may rancid butter be made fit for use in cooking? 

(7) Explain the advantages of butter substitutes. 

(8) Give the test for distinguishing oleomargarine and renovated butter 
from butter. 

(9) Explain briefly the way in which cheese is produced. 

(10) What food substances are found in cheese? 

(11) Why can cheese be used to take the place of meat? 

(12) Tell the advantages that cheese has over meat. 

(13) Explain how to make cottage cheese from sour milk. 

(14) Why should cheese be mixed with other foods instead of being 
served alone? 

(15) Explain the effect of cooking on cheese. 



REPORT ON MENU 

After trying out the luncheon menu given in the text, send with your answers 
to the Examination Questions a report of your success. In making out your 
report, simply write the name of the food and describe its condition by means 
of the terms specified in the following list : 

Cream-of-Corn Soup: too thick? too thin? lumpy? well seasoned? milk 
curdled ? 

Cheese Souffle: light? heavy? baked sufficiently? shrunken? underdone? 

Sauted Potatoes : too brown ? not brown enough ? well seasoned ? too 
much fat? too little fat? 

Stewed Tomatoes : sufficiently cooked ? well seasoned ? too sour ? 

Baked Apples : well done ? not well done ? too brown ? too dry ? too moist ? 
sufficient sugar? 

Black Tea: too weak? too strong? hot? taste of tannin? 

§7 



EGGS 



VALUE OF EGGS AS FOOD 



DESCRIPTION OF EGGS AND PLACE IN THE DIET 

1. Eggs are of great importance in the diet, and to appreciate 
this fact fully the true nature of this food must be understood. For 
domestic use, the eggs of guinea hens, turkeys, ducks, and geese 
occasionally find favor, but as eggs laid by hens are the kind that 
is commonly used, it is to such eggs that this Section is devoted. 
A hen's egg may really be considered as an undeveloped chicken, 
because it contains all the elements required to build the body of the 
chick and provide it with the energy it needs to pick its way into the 
world. When it emerges from the shell, it is fully developed, and in 
a short time it begins an independent existence, seeking and finding 
its own food. The fact that eggs store so much nutritive material 
explains to some extent why they are a valuable source of food for 
man and why they are used so extensively. However, as in the case 
of iTiilk, the elements that eggs contain are not in just the right pro- 
portion for the sole nourishment of a human being, so they must 
generally be used in combination with other foods. 

2. Most persons are familiar with the appearance of eggs, but in 
order that satisfactory results may be obtained in their selection, 
care, and cooking, it will be necessary to look into the details of 
their composition. As is well known, an egg consists of a porous 
shell lined with a fine, but tough, membrane that encloses the white 
and the yolk and serves to protect them. The yolk is divided from 
the white by a delicate membrane, which permits it to be separated 
from the white when an egg is carefully broken. This membrane 
extends to each end of the shell in the form of a small cord, and 
it is so fastened to the shell as to hold the yolk evenly suspended. 

COPYRrOHTEO BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIOHr« RESERVED 

5« 



2 EGGS § 8 

The porous nature of an egg shell is required to give air to the 
developing chick, but it is this characteristic that permits eggs to 
spoil as they grow old and are exposed to air, for through these 
minute pores, or openings, the water in the egg evaporates and air 
and bacteria enter. Of course, as the water evaporates and is 
replaced by air, the egg becomes lighter. Because of this fact, the 
freshness of eggs can be determined by placing them in water. 
When they are fresh, they will sink in cold water, but as they decom- 
pose they become lighter and will float. 

Since it is known that the spoiling of eggs is due to the entrance 
of air through the porous shell, it may be inferred that their decay 
may be prevented either by protecting the shell so that air caimot 
enter or by keeping the eggs at so low a temperature that bacteria 
cannot grow. Although stored eggs always deteriorate more or 
less, both of these methods of preservation have proved very satis- 
factory, the former being used largely in the home and the latter 
finding its solution in cold storage. A knowledge of how eggs can 
be preserved, however, is of great value, for if there were no means 
of preservation and eventual marketing, the price of eggs would at 
times rise to actual prohibitive limits. 

3. That eggs as an article of food are growing in importance is 
indicated by the fact that their production has come to be a large and 
widely distributed industry. Owing to the private consumption and 
sale of eggs, an accurate statement of the number of eggs produced 
is difficult to give. Still, in a report, the United States Bureau of 
Agriculture estimated the value of the yearly egg production at 
something more than three million dollars, with an allowance of 
about 210 eggs, or 17^ dozen, per capita each year, or 4 eggs a week 
for each person. These figures, however, are only suggestive of 
the production, use, and value of eggs, for as the population increases 
so does the use of eggs. In fact, they are proving to be almost 
indispensable to the cook, the baker, the manufacturers of certain 
foods, and many others. 

4. With the increase in the demand for eggs has come a corre- 
sponding steady advance in the money value of this product and, 
consequently, an increase in its price. The housewife who would 
practice economy in cookery can readily see, therefore, that with 
reference to the number of eggs required and the ways in which 
they are used, she must choose carefully the recipes and methods 



§8 



EGGS 



she employs. If the eggs are always considered a part of a meal, 
their use is seldom an extravagance, even at such high prices as they 
sometimes attain. On the other hand, if a dessert that requires the 
use of many eggs is added to a meal that is itself sufficient in food 
value, it is not unreasonable to regard such use of eggs as an extrava- 
gance. A point that should be taken into consideration in the use of 
eggs in the diet, especially when their price seems very high, is that 
there is no waste matter in them, unless the shell is regarded as 
waste. Therefore, they are often, more economical than other foods 
that can be bought for less money. 

It must not be understood, however, that eggs are used only as an 
article of diet. They are also a very important food ingredient, 
being employed in the preparation of many kinds of dishes. For 
instance, they are often used to thicken custards, sauces, etc. ; to 
clarify soups and jellies ; to lighten cakes, puddings, hot breads, and 
other baked mixtures ; to form the basis for salad dressings ; and to 
combine or hold together many varieties of food. 



NUTRITIVE VALUE OF EGGS 

5. Like milk, eggs are often spoken of as a perfect food. Still, 
as has been pointed out, they are not a perfect food for man, but 
they are of especial nutritive value and should be used freely in 
the diet just as long as their cost neither limits nor prohibits their 




Fig. 1 

use. An idea of how they compare with other nutritious foods can 
be obtained from Fig. 1, which shows that eight eggs are equal in 
food value to 1 quart of milk or 1 pound and 5 ounces of beefsteak. 
A better understanding of their food value, however, can be gained 
from a study of their composition. 

wi— ca-6 



4 EGGS § 8 

6. Since an egg is an undeveloped chick that requires only the 
addition of warmth to develop it into a living, moving creature made 
of muscles, bones, and blood, it is evident that this food contains 
considerable tissue-building and energy-producing material. The 
exact proportion of this material, as well as the other substances 
found in eggs, is given in the food chart shown in Essentials of 
Cookery, Part 1. The chart relating to the composition of eggs 
points out that the edible portion of the whole egg consists of 
73.7 per cent, of water, 14.8 per cent, of protein, 10.5 per cent, of 
fat, and about 1 per cent, of ash, or mineral matter. The protein, 
which is chiefly in the form of albumen, and the fat are the most 
digestible of these elements, while the mineral constituents are as 
valuable for the growing child as for the chick. When the total 
weight of an egg is taken into consideration, the shell constitutes 
about 11 per cent., the yolk 32 per cent., and the white 57 per cent. 
The composition of the yolk and the white differs somewhat, the yolk 
having the greater food value, a fact that is also clearly indicated in 
the chart. The white contains a larger proportion of water than the 
yolk, but the yolk contains the most of the fat and more protein and 
mineral matter, or ash, than the white. In addition, the chart shows 
that the number of calories to the pound of whole egg is 700, of egg 
yolk is 1,608, and of egg white is 265. 

7. Protein in Eggs, — The nature of the food substances in 
eggs is of nearly as great importance as their amount, for they not 
only determine the value of this food in the body, but influence its 
cooking. That protein is present in both the yolk and the white is 
apparent from the fact that they coagulate when heat is applied. 
Because eggs are high in protein, containing 14.8 per cent, of this 
substance, they may be regarded as equivalent to a meat dish, and 
it is only when they are extremely high in price that they cannot be 
frequently substituted for meat to advantage. They are often used 
to take the place of milk, too, for eggs and milk are more alike in 
nutritive value than any other two protein foods; but, of the two, 
milk yields the cheaper form of protein. Like meat and milk, eggs 
are rich in all those food materials which enter into the construction 
of bone, muscle, and blood. 

8. Fat in Eggs. — A study of the food chart previously men- 
tioned will show that eggs contain proportionately almost as much 
fat as protein and that nearly all this fat is found in the yolk. Since 



§ 8 EGGS 5 

fat produces more heat or energy, weight for weight, than any other 
food substance, and since eggs contain neither starch nor sugar, it is 
evident that the fat of this food is the main source of the energy- 
producing material. Fat in eggs occurs in the form of an emulsion, 
or tiny particles, and, like the fat of milk, is very readily digested. 
It is for this reason that both of these foods are particularly well 
adapted to the diet of both children and adults. The presence of 
quantities of protein and fat and the absence of carbohydrate in eggs 
indicate that the proper thing to combine with this food, in order to 
have a well-balanced meal when eggs are eaten, is carbohydrate in 
some form. 

9. Minerals in Eggs. — Eggs are especially valuable for the 
mineral salts they contain, chief among which are lime, phosphorus, 
sulphur, iron, potassium, and sodium. For this reason, the addition 
of eggs to any kind of diet supplies a large amount of the minerals 
that are needed for bone, blood, and tissue building. A favorable 
point concerning the minerals found in eggs is that they are not 
affected to any extent by cooking. Therefore, in the preparation of 
any dish, if eggs are added to other foods, that dish will contain an 
additional amount of mineral salts, plus the nutritive value of the 
eggs. 

10. Digestibility of Eggs. — In connection with the discus- 
sion of the food substances of which eggs are composed, it will be 
well to note how these afifect the digestibility of this food. But 
just what is meant by this characteristic with reference to eggs must 
first be understood. In some foods, digestibility may mean the 
length of time required for them to digest ; in others, the complete- 
ness of the digestion ; and in still others, the ease and comfort with 
which the process of digestion proceeds. In the case of eggs, diges- 
tibility refers to the quantity of this food that is absorbed, that is, 
actually dissolved and permitted to enter the blood stream. The 
nutritive value of eggs is not so high as would naturally be sup- 
posed, for, although the protein, fat, and mineral salts of an egg make 
up about one-fourth of its contents, one egg equals in nutritive value 
only i cupful of milk, a small potato, or a medium-sized apple. 
However, when the proportion of the nutritive material that the body 
retains from this food, or its digestibility, is considered, eggs rank 
extremely high, it having been determined by experiments that 97 per 
cent, cvf the protein and 95 per cent, of the fat are assimilated. A 



6 EGGS § 8 

point worthy of note in this connection, though, is that eggs contain 
no cellulose, such as that found in grains, vegetables, and fruits. 
Therefore, in order to add the much-needed bulk to the diet, foods 
that do contain cellulose should be served with eggs. 

11. Whether or not the cooking of eggs has any effect on their 
digestibility is a matter that has also been investigated. The results 
of the experiments made indicate that cooking makes some difference 
with the rate of digestion, but very little with its thoroughness. So 
far as the rapidity of digestion is concerned, there is very little 
difference between raw eggs and slightly cooked eggs; but hard- 
cooked eggs, although they may be digested as completely as soft- 
cooked ones, require longer time for the accomplishment of the 
process. This is due to the fact that the whites of hard-cooked eggs 
are so firm in texture that, unless they are finely chopped or thor- 
oughly masticated, the digestive juices are not able to act on them 
quickly. As a result, portions of them may escape digestion or 
remain in the digestive tract for some time and decompose. For 
this reason, hard-cooked eggs are usually excluded from the diet of 
children and invalids, and even healthy adults should be careful to 
masticate them thoroughly. 

SELECTION OF EGGS 

12. On first thought it would seem as if there is very little to 
guide the housewife in the selection of eggs, it being extremely 
difficult to tell from their external appearance whether or not they 
are fresh or stale. As a rule, she must trust largely to the honesty 
of the person from whom she buys eggs. Still she need not depend 
entirely on the dealer's word, for, at least to a certain extent, there 
are ways in which she may judge the quality of eggs. Because of the 
great value of eggs as a food and for cooking purposes, it is impor- 
tant that the housewife make use of all available information on this 
matter and, in addition, become familiar with the trade practices in 
the egg industry. 

13. Marketing of Eggs. — As is generally known, hens lay a 
large number of eggs in the spring of the year, but they do not lay 
readily in the cold winter months ; and not alone are the greatest 
quantities of eggs produced in April and May, but those laid at this 
time are of the best quality. Because of this condition and in order 
that the demand during the time of scarcity may be supplied, it is 



§ 8 EGGS 7 

necessary that a considerable number of eggs be preserved when 
they are comparatively cheap and abundant. Also, in the preserving 
of eggs for future use, it is of the greatest importance that they be 
kept in the best possible condition and manner, so that when they 
are used, months after they are laid, they may be as good as it is 
possible to have them. 

The advance made in storage and transportation methods in recent 
years has done much toward making the egg supply uniform all the 
year around. Not long ago, because of inadequate means of storage 
and shipping, eggs were sold only a short distance from the place 
where they were produced. However, with the coming of cold 
storage and improved methods of shipping, eggs have been changed 
from a perishable and more or less seasonable food to a staple one. 
Now it is possible to collect them in large quantities, to keep them 
for a considerable time before selling them, and to ship them long 
distances. To safeguard the public, though, authorities have set a 
time limit for the storage of eggs, the legal time they may be kept 
being 8 months. By this is meant that eggs placed in the warehouse 
in May must be released or sold in December ; whereas, those stored 
in June must be released no later than January. 

14. Eggs that have been kept too long in storage are charac- 
terized by a musty odor and flavor, the breaking of the yolk and its 
mixing with the white, and a watery condition of the white. Such 
eggs, of course, cannot be sold legally. Those which may be placed 
on the market are graded according to their freshness, cleanliness, 
size, cracks, and color. With the exception of their freshness, these 
points can be readily told from the appearance of the eggs ; but, in 
order to determine whether an egg is fresh or not, it is generally 
put through a process known as candling, by which the interior con- 
dition of the egg can be ascertained. 

In the grading of eggs, all those of the best size, color, and condi- 
tion are sold under a particular trade name and bring a high or a low 
price, according to the grading. Others that are not so perfect are 
put in another grade and sell for prices that vary according to the 
demand. Eggs, of course, differ in appearance and in many cases 
they are sorted in order to satisfy the demand. For instance, in 
some localities, eggs having a brown shell sell for the highest price, 
while in other places, eggs having a white shell are in the greatest 
demand and bring the highest price. Unsorted eggs are not held 



8 EGGS § 8 

in much favor and do not bring so good a price as those which are 
all one color. Many persons have an idea that the color of the shell 
of an egg bears some relation to its nutritive value and flavor. How- 
ever, authorities on foods agree that, other things being alike, the 
edible portion of white-shelled eggs has essentially the same composi- 
tion and nutritive value as that of dark-shelled eggs. 

15. Quality of Eggs. — The natural quality of eggs depends 
largely on the food of the hens and their conditions of living. 
Because of this fact, the selection, breeding, and care of fowls have 
developed into a science, particularly since the production of eggs 
has grown into an industry. When the quality itself is to be deter- 
mined, all the characteristics of eggs must be taken into considera- 
tion ; still there is one particular point on which the quality of eggs 
depends, and that is their freshness. Various agencies, however, 
are constantly at work to render this quality inferior. Chief among 
these are the molds and bacteria that pass through the porous shells 
of eggs that have been improperly cared for or have beconie con- 
taminated by being allowed to remain in unclean surroundings. Such 
bacteria are responsible' for the unpleasant flavors that are found in 
bad eggs. Because of their harmful effect, every effort should be 
made to prevent the entrance of the germs that cause decay, and, as 
has been stated, the best way in which to accomplish this is to pro- 
tect the shell. If it is found that bacteria have entered, the eggs will 
become unfit for use quickly unless their growth is prevented. This 
may be done by storing the eggs at a temperature that will keep the 
bacteria dormant, or inert. 

16. If the eggs are kept under the proper conditions, they will 
not actually spoil for a long time ; but it is seldom that they are not 
more or less affected by storage of any kind that covers a period 
of several months. One change that can always be looked for in such 
eggs is in the air space at the broad end. When an egg is first laid, 
this air space is small, but since the water contained in the egg 
slowly evaporates through the porous shell it increases in size as the 
egg grows staler. For this reason, the freshness of an egg can 
often be determined by the size of this air space. 

In addition, the purposes for which eggs are used are somewhat 
affected by their storage. A stale egg, although it may not be actually 
spoiled to the extent that it cannot be used as food, will not produce 
such good results in a cooking process as a fresh egg, especially if 



§ 8 EGGS 9 

it is used for leavening. In fact, it is impossible to produce the 
desired results with eggs that have undergone a certain amount of 
change, even though their odor and their flavor do not indicate that 
they are spoiled. 

17. Judging the Quality of Eggs in the Market. — ^While, 
as has been mentioned, the housewife must depend considerably on 
the dealer's word as to the freshness of the eggs she purchases, it 
will be well for her to be familiar with the trade names of eggs and 
their meaning. The names used differ, of course, in various locali- 
ties, but all large distributors grade and name eggs in much the same 
way. In deciding on the grade to which eggs belong, a certain num- 
ber of points are given for color, size, freshness, and appearance, 
and the sum total of these points determines the grade, a special 
name being given for each grade. For instance, eggs that can be 
graded 90 are called extra fancy; those which receive a grade of 80, 
fancy; those which are graded 70, strictly fresh; and those which can 
be graded only 60, cooking eggs. When eggs are put on the market 
under such names, it can be expected that the quality will corre- 
spond to the grade and the price will vary with the grade. There- 
fore, the trade name and the price are two of the principal ways 
in which the quality of eggs in the market may be judged. 

18. Another way of judging the quality of eggs consists in 
observing the condition of the surface of the shell. When eggs are 
freshly laid, the shell is covered with a substance, called bloom, that 
gives it a feeling much like that of a thin lime coating deposited in a 
pan after water boils. This coating disappears gradually as the 
egg is exposed to the air, but as long as it remains, the egg may be 
considered as fresh and germ-proof. While this way of determining 
freshness is probably the quickest, it is possible that the quality of 
some eggs from which the bloom has recently disappeared has not 
been injured. 

19. When eggs are selected in the market, certain points in their 
appearance should also be noted. If eggs of the best quality are 
desired, medium-sized ones that are uniform in size and color should 
be selected. With regard to shape, they should have a comparatively 
long oval shell, one end of which is blunt and the other, a sharp 
curve. 



10 



EGGS 



§8 



20. Judging the Quality of Eggs in the Home. — ^After 
eggs have been received in the home, several simple tests for deter- 
mining their freshness can be 
applied in addition to the ones 
already mentioned. A rather in- 
definite test, but one that is some- 
times applied to determine the 
freshness of an egg, is to shake it. 
Hovirever, to be able to carry out 
this test successfully, it is well to 
understand the interior structure 
^'°-2 of an egg. Fig. 2 illustrates this 

clearly. At a is shown the air space previously mentioned ; at b, the 





3 MONTHS 



Fig. 3 



spiral cords that run from the yolk to each end of the egg and hold 
the yolk in place; at c, 
the yolk; and at d, the 
white. When the water 
inside the shell evapo- 
rates, the yolk and white 
shrink so much that they 
can be felt moving from 
side to side when the egg 
is shaken. The staler 
the egg, the more pro- 
nounced does the move- 
ment become. This 
method should be ap- 
plied only immediately 
before the egg is to be 
used, as the thin mem- ^"'•* 

brane between the yolk and the white and the spiral cords that hold 
up the yolk are liable to be disturbed by the shaking. If they are 




§8 



EGGS 



11 



broken, ae yolk will settle and finally adhere to the shell in case the 
egg is stored for any length of time after that. 

21. If nothing has been done to preserve eggs, the simple test for 
freshness illustrated in Fig. 3, which consists in placing the eggs in a 




Fig. 5 



glass containing water, will be found eiifective. A perfectly fresh 
egg will sink when it is put into the water, but if the egg is 3 weeks 
old the broad end will rise slightly from the bottom of the glass. An 
egg that is 3 months old will sink into water until only a slight por- 
tion of the shell remains exposed; whereas, if the egg is older or 
stale, it will rise in the water until nearly half of it is exposed. 



12 



EGGS 



§8 



22. The test known as candling, which is usually applied to eggs 
before they are put on the market, can also be practiced by the 
housewife in the home. This method of determining the freshness 
of eggs consists in placing a piece of cardboard containing a hole a 
little smaller than an egg between the eye and a light, which may be 
from a lamp, a gas jet, or an electric light, and holding the egg in 
front of the light in the manner shown in Fig. 4. The rays of light 
passing through the egg show the condition of the egg, the size of its 
air space, and the growth of mold or the spoiling of the egg by any 
ordinary means. 

In Fig. 5 is shown how an egg at various stages of freshness 
appears when candled. When an egg is fresh, it will appear as 




in (a) ; that is, the yolk will be barely distinguishable from the white 
except as a slightly darker area in the center of the egg, and the 
entire egg will appear clear and bright and free from spots. In an 
egg that is a little older, candling will reveal a slightly darker yolk, 
a cloudy white, and a larger air space, as in (&). In a watery egg, 
or one that is beginning to spoil, various dark spots and blotches 
usually develop, as view (c) indicates. When an egg is rotten, the 
contents of the shell will look dark in candling and the yolk will 
appear to be mixed with the white, as in (d). 



§ 8 EGGS 13 

23. If the housewife does not wish to resort to candling, she may 
determine the condition of an egg by breaking it into a saucer and 
examining it carefully. If the egg is newly laid, no odor will be 
detected and the white will be clear, elastic, and rather thick; also, 
where it joins the yolk it will be almost solid. The yolk of such an 
egg will have an even yellow color, without lighter or darker spots 
and, as shown in Fig. 6 (a), will stand up well from the surface of 
the white. Sometimes a small spot of blood may be detected on the 
yolk of a perfectly fresh egg, but, while this is not pleasant to look 
at, it does not affect the quality of the egg. When an egg that is not 
real fresh is broken into a saucer, the yolk will lie flat, as in (b). 
In an egg that is quite stale, the membrane surrounding the yolk is 
easily destroyed, so that even when such an egg is broken carefully 
the yolk and the white are likely to run together. 



PRESERVATION OF EGGS 



CAUSES AND PREVEIVTIOIV OP DETERIORATION 

24. As has been implied in the discussion given thus far, eggs 
will deteriorate or spoil in a comparatively short time unless some- 
thing is done to preserve them. In view of the eggs she keeps on 
hand at home, as well as those she buys, the causes of spoiling and 
the ways in which to prevent spoiling are matters with which the 
housewife should be familiar, particularly if she would secure for 
her family eggs of the best quality at prices that are not beyond her 
means. The spoiling of eggs is due to decomposition, which is 
caused by molds or bacteria that result from accidental causes, and, 
in fertile eggs, to the germination and development of the chick, 
which is a natural process. The loss of quality resulting from molds 
and bacteria in the egg is brought about by their growth and by the 
formation of chemical compounds, which give spoiled eggs their 
peculiar appearance, taste, and odor. Some of these molds are not 
injurious to health, while others may give rise to more or less serious 
illness. 

25. Various methods have been devised whereby their rapid 
deterioration may be prevented, and a knowledge of these is impor- 
tant to those who have occasion to purchase eggs or to keep them 
over from the season of plenty to the season of scarcity. The method 



14 EGGS § 8 

followed to prevent losses due to the development of the embryo 
consists in the production of infertile eggs — that is, eggs that are 
non-productive. This is a point that is as well worth remembering 
in the home production of eggs as it is in professional poultry rais- 
ing. The method employed to prevent the infection of eggs by 
molds and bacteria is to keep them clean and dry from the time they 
are laid until they are finally used. 

26. While the preservation of eggs is carried on to a greater 
extent at present than formerly, the idea is neither new nor original ; 
indeed, it has been practiced for many years by the people of some 
foreign countries. For instance, in some sections of China, duck 
eggs are preserved by covering them with a layer of mud, and such 
eggs are often kept for a year or more before they are eaten. How- 
ever, eggs stored in this way decompose and their odor and flavor 
disappear before they are used, so that they must usually be hard 
boiled before they can be eaten. Egg preservation such as is prac- 
ticed in the United States is the opposite of this and attempts to 
prevent not only ripening processes and putrefactive changes but 
any bacterial or other changes that lessen the original quality. It 
will be well to note, however, that eggs preserved for any length of 
time deteriorate to some extent and cannot be expected to be equally 
as good as fresh eggs. 

COMMERCIAL PRESERVATION OF EGGS 

27. The usual market method of preserving eggs is by cold 
storage, an industry that has developed to vast proportions in recent 
years. The success of this method depends on the fact that germs 
causing decomposition will not live in a low temperature. While the 
plan of storing eggs is responsible for their high price at certain 
times, it is also a means of supplying eggs to many persons who 
would otherwise not be able to obtain them. The greatest point in 
favor of this plan, however, is that it makes possible the marketing 
of quantities of eggs during the winter season of scarcity at a price 
that, although somewhat high at times, is much more moderate than 
it would be if it were not possible to store eggs in large quantities. 

28. In order that advantage may be taken of favorable climatic 
conditions, eggs are commonly purchased for storage as early in the 
year as they are abundant. They are selected with great care, only 
those which are clean, sound, and fresh being used. These eggs are 



§ 8 EGGS 15 

packed in clean cases, and then placed in warehouses where they are 
kept at a temperature just above freezing, or one that ranges from 
32 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit. In such storage, precaution is usually 
taken to prevent the eggs from freezing, for while freezing does not 
necessarily injure them for immediate use it breaks the shell because 
of the contraction that occurs. While the eggs are in storage, they 
are also protected as far as possible from air circulation, as this 
increases evaporation and causes the contents of eggs to shrink. To 
prevent the yolks from settling to one side, and finally adhering to 
the shell, the eggs are turned frequently. The usual limits of storage 
are from 6 to 9 months, but eggs are not generally allowed to remain 
in storage more than 8 months. When taken out at the end of that 
time, it will be found that they have deteriorated very little, and 
while they cannot compete with the better grades of fresh eggs, they 
are as desirable as most of the eggs that can be purchased in the 
early fall when eggs are not plentiful. 

29. Sometimes eggs are removed from the shells, stored for 
commercial use in containers of about 50 pounds each, and kept at 
the freezing point until they are to be used. Eggs in this form, which 
may be bought with the yolks and whites either mixed or separate, 
find a ready market in bakeries and restaurants, where large quan- 
tities of eggs are continually used. Such eggs remain good for any 
length of time while they are kept frozen, but they must be used 
immediately after they are removed from storage. 

30. It is not always necessary to keep eggs at a cold temper- 
ature in order to preserve them, for a method that has proved 
very satisfactory is to reduce them to the form of powder by drying 
them. In this form, the bulk is greatly reduced, 1 pound of the dry 
material representing 30 to 40 eggs, and in order to prepare them 
for use in cooking they must be mixed with water. Powdered. 
eggs, or desiccated eggs, as they are usually called, can be kept 
for an indefinite length of time without special care in storage, 
when they are wholesome and carefully handled. Tests that have 
been made show that eggs of this kind give fairly good results when 
used in cookery, but they are used principally by bakers, for they 
can be obtained more cheaply than fresh eggs, especially when it is 
difficult to secure eggs in other forms. 



16 EGGS § 8 



HOME PRESERVATION OP EGGS 

31. The housewife who desires to run her household on an 
economical basis will not depend entirely on eggs that are com- 
mercially stored, but will take advantage of one of the many methods 
by which eggs may be successfully kept in the home. By being pru- 
dent in this matter, she will be prepared to supply her family with 
this commodity at times when the market price is high. 

As many as twenty household methods have been tried out for the 
preserving of eggs, but each one is based on the theory that decay is 
hindered when the shell is covered with some substance that renders 
it air-tight and prevents evaporation or the entrance of bacteria and 
mold. Among the methods that have met with the most success are 
burying eggs in oats, bran, or salt ; rubbing them with fat ; dipping 
them in melted paraffin ; covering them with varnish or shellac ; and 
putting them down in lime water or in a solution of water glass. 

No matter which of these methods is adopted, however, it will be 
well to note that only eggs laid in April, May, or June should be used 
for storage purposes, as these are the best ones laid during the year ; 
also, that the eggs should always be packed with the small end down, 
because the yolk will not settle toward the small end so readily as 
toward the large end or the side. 

32. Of these various ways of preserving eggs in the home, prob- 
ably the oldest method is that of packing the eggs in oats, bran, or 
salt. This method is fairly effective, but the eggs preserved by it 
do not keep so long as eggs preserved by other methods, nor is their 
quality so good. Preserving eggs by completely covering the shells 
with fat, vaseline, paraffin, varnish, or other substance that will 
exclude the air but not impart flavor to the eggs, proves a more satis- 
factory method so far as the eggs are concerned, but it requires more 
time and handling. To assist in their preservation, eggs are some- 
times immersed in boiling water for 12 to 15 seconds. This process, 
which causes the white to harden slightly just inside of the shell, 
keeps the eggs fairly well, but it is rather difficult to accomplish, as 
the least overcooking renders the egg unfit for use as a raw tgg. 

As a result of many trials, it has been found that putting eggs 
down in the various solutions that are used for this purpose is the 
most effective way of preserving them under home conditions, pro- 
vided, of course, the solutions in which the eggs are immersed do 



§ 8 EGGS 17 

not flavor the eggs. Therefore, to assist the housewife, detailed 
directions for using lime water and water glass for this purpose are 
here given. 

33. Preservation With Limewater. — To prepare limewater 
for the preservation of eggs, dissolve 1 pound or 1 pint of salt and 
1 quart of finely slaked lime in 3 gallons of water, stir the solution 
at frequent intervals for a day or two, and then allow the liquid to 
settle. Place the eggs in tall stone crocks or kegs with their pointed 
ends turned down, filling the receptacles to within a few inches of the 
top. Pour the clear limewater over the eggs so arranged, allowing it 
to rise an inch or two above the top layer. Then stand the vessel in 
a cool place where the temperature will not exceed 50 degrees 
Fahrenheit. Eggs so treated will keep for at least 6 or 8 months. 
The only objection to this plan is that the eggs preserved by it some- 
times acquire a slight lime taste. 

34. Preservation Witli Water Glass. — Putting eggs down 
in a solution of water glass is without doubt the most satisfactory 
method of storing them in the home. So effective does this method 
prove that the housewife who has a convenient and proper storage 
room should not fail to take advantage of this way of laying up a 
supply of eggs. 

The commercial form of water glass is usually a mixture of potas- 
sium and sodium silicate, which, besides being cheaper than that 
which is chemically pure, is the kind that is preferred for the pur- 
pose of preserving eggs. A good quality of it either in a sirup- 
like solution or in the form of a powder retails in drug or grocery 
stores for about 10 cents a pound. To make a solution of the 
desired strength to preserve eggs satisfactorily, dissolve 1 part of 
water glass in 7 parts of warm water that has first been boiled to 
drive off bacteria, mold, spores, etc. One quart of water glass will 
make sufficient solution to cover about 12 dozen eggs. With the 
solution thoroughly mixed, it is ready to pour over the eggs. 

In selecting eggs for the purpose of storing, be careful to choose 
only those which are clean, fresh, and perfectly sound, and, if possi- 
ble, infertile. It is advisable not to wash them before they are put 
into the preservative, for they will keep better if their bloom is not 
removed. Place the eggs in receptacles in the manner explained for 
preserving eggs in limewater, and over them pour the water-glass 
solution until they are all covered. If the eggs so prepared are stored 



18 



EGGS 



§8 



in a cool place, they will keep as long as those preserved in lime- 
water ; besides, there will be no danger of their acquiring any foreign 
flavor. 



COOKING OF EGGS 



PRELIMINARY PREPARATION 

35. The successful preparation of eggs for their use as a food 
demands that certain points must be observed by the housewife. 
For instance, she must see that the eggs she uses are in the right 
condition ; that the shells are properly broken for the most convenient 
removal of the egg; that the parts of the egg are separated in the 
right way in case the whites and the yolks are to be used separately ; 
and that the eggs receive the right treatment for the purpose for 

which they are to be 
used. Attention to all 
these points not only will 
insure the most satis- 
factory results, but will 
enable the housewife to 
supply her family with 
food that is extremely 
wholesome and nutri- 
tious. 

36. Exterior Con- 
dition of Eggs. — As 
has been explained, clean 
eggs are the most desir- 
able, but it is not advis- 
able to wash eggs that are to kept for even a short time, as washing 
them removes the natural coating that helps to prevent the entrance 
of bacteria. However, as it is necessary that the shells be perfectly 
clean before they are broken or before the eggs are cooked, the eggs 
may be washed or wiped with a damp cloth immediately before such 
processes. 

37. Breaking of Eggs. — In cookery, it is usually desirable to 
break an egg shell so that the yolk will not run into the white ; that 
is, so that these can be kept separate. While there are several 




Fig. 7 



§8 



EGGS 



19 



methods of doing this, the housewife should adopt the one that is 
most convenient for her. A quick method that is often employed 
consists in striking the shell on the edge of the pan or the bowl into 
which the contents are to be put. A preferable method, however, 
is illustrated in Fig. 7. It consists in striking one side of the 
shell, midway between the ends, a sharp blow with the edge of a 
knife. The advantage of this method will be evident after a trial 
or two, for it will be found that the depth of the cut made by the 
knife can be so gauged that there will be little danger of breaking 
the yolk. Besides, fragments of the shell are not likely to fall into 
the bowl or the pan with the contents of the egg. 

38. Separating of Eggs. — Frequently recipes require that the 
yolks and whites of eggs be beaten. separately before being added to 
the other ingredients. 
When this is the case, 
care must be exercised 
in taking the egg from 
the shell. The method 
by which this is most 
easily accomplished is 
illustrated in Fig. 8. As 
will be observed, the 
shell is first broken as 
nearly as possible into 
halves and then, while 
the egg is poured from 
one half of the shell into F'°- ^ 

the other, the white is dropped into a dish and the yolk is retained in 
the shell. During this process, the yolk should remain intact in its 
delicate membrane, for if it becomes mixed with the white the light- 
ness of the white will be injured. To separate the yolk from the 
white is not difficult when eggs are fresh, but as they become stale 
the membrane surrounding the yolk grows weak and breaks easily. 
If the yolk breaks and any of it falls into the white, it must be com- 
pletely removed before the white is beaten. 

39. Beating of Eggs. — Sometimes eggs are cooked in the shell 
and other times they are used alone just as they are removed from 
the shell, as in the frying and poaching processes; however, when 
they are to be combined with other ingredients, they are usually 

WI-C2-7 




20 



EGGS 



§8 




Fig. 9 



beaten. E^gs are beaten for the purpose of mixing the yolk and the 

white or of incorporating air to act as a leavening agent when the 
eggs are heated in the cooking process. Vari- 
ous utensils, such as a fork, an egg whip, or 
an egg beater, may be employed for beating 
eggs, the one to select depending on the use 
to which the eggs are to be put. The rotary, 
or Dover, egg beater, previously described 
as a labor-saving device and illustrated in 
Fig. 9 (a), should be used to beat either whole 
eggs or the yolks of eggs when they are to be 
used in custards, mayonnaise, cakes, puddings, 
etc., as it will beat them sufficiently light for 
such purposes. However, for the beating of 
egg whites, use should be made of a fork or 
of an egg whip similar to that shown in (&), 
because the whites must be lifted instead of 

stirred for the incorporation of air, and it is only with a utensil 

of this kind that this can be accomplished. Then, too, more air 

can be incorporated 

into the whites and 

the volume of the egg 

thereby increased by 

means of a fork or an 

egg whip than by an 

egg beater. An im- 
portant point to 

remember in this con- 
nection is that eggs 

can be beaten more 

successfully when 

they are cold and 

have had a pinch of 

salt added to them. 



40. In the beating 
of eggs, it should be 
remembered that for 
some purposes, as in making some kinds of sponge cake, they are 
beaten until nearly frothy, as shown in Fig. 10, when they do not 




§ 8 EGGS 21 

stand up nor cling to the whip ; whereas, for other purposes, as in 
making meringue, they are beaten until they are stiff enough to stand 
up well and to adhere to the whip, as Fig. 11 shows. When egg 
whites are to be beaten stiff, care should be taken not to continue the 
beating too long. If this is done, they will become dry and will 
break up into small pieces, a condition that will mean a loss of some 
of the air that has been incorporated. It is well also to observe that 
egg whites should always be beaten in the same direction and that 
the same motion should be continued throughout the beating, for a 




Fig. 11 

change of direction or motion always causes a loss of air. A final 
precaution to take is never to allow egg whites to stand after they 
are beaten. If this is done, the leavening power of the eggs is 
reduced, because the air soon escapes from beaten eggs and leaves 
underneath them a clear liquid that can never be beaten up. For 
instance, eggs that are to be used for boiled icing should not be 
beaten until the sirup has finished boiling. However, eggs that have 
been separated but not beaten may stand for a couple of hours, pro- 
vided they are covered and kept in a cool place. 



POINTS TO OBSERVE IN COOKING EGGS 

41. As has been previously stated, the substance in eggs that 
requires special care in the cooking process is the protein, which 
occurs in this food in the form of albumen. Because of this, certain 
points concerning the treatment that the albumen requires should be 
kept in mind. In a raw egg, the albumen occurs in a semiliquid 
form, but it coagulates at a lower temperature than does the yolk, 
which contains a high percentage of fat. After coagulation, the con- 
sistency of the two parts is very different. The white is elastic and 



22 EGGS § 8 

more or less tough, while the yolk, upon being thoroughly cooked, 
becomes powdery, or mealy, and breaks up into minute particles. 
The egg white begins to coagulate at 134 degrees Fahrenheit, and it 
becomes white and jellylike at 160 degrees. Bringing an egg to such 
a temperature produces a more desirable result than cooking it at 
a high temperature — boiling point, for instance — because the albu- 
men, instead of becoming tough, as it does at a high temperature, 
acquires a soft, tender consistency that exists throughout the entire 
egg. An egg cooked in this way is more digestible and appetizing 
than one that is boiled until it becomes hard and tough. 

42. The low temperature at which eggs will cook in the shell 
applies also to eggs when they are combined with other foods. Some- 
times, however, a mixture in which eggs are one of the ingredients 
must be cooked at a high temperature because the materials mixed 
with them require it. This difficulty can be overcome when eggs are 
combined with starchy foods, such as corn starch, rice, and tapioca, 
that require long cooking. In such a case, all the ingredients except 
the eggs may be cooked the length of time they require, after which 
the eggs may be added so that they will cook just long enough to 
become coagulated. Longer cooking is liable to spoil the texture. 
Often the starchy mixture retains sufficient heat to set the eggs with- 
out further cooking after they are added. 

43. A very nutritious way in which to prepare eggs when they 
are to be used for a dessert is to combine them with milk to form 
a custard, which, after being sweetened and flavored, is baked. The 
proportion that has been accepted as ideal to produce a dessert of 
the right thickness is one egg to each cupful of milk; however, 
an entire egg is not always required, as one yolk is often sufficient 
to thicken 1 cupful of milk. Care should be taken in the cooking of 
such custards, for if they are cooked too long or at too high a tem- 
perature they will curdle and whey; whereas, a properly cooked 
custard — that is, one cooked slowly at a low temperature and for the 
required length of time — will have a smooth, jellylike consistency. 
A slight variation in a dish of this kind is secured by reducing the 
number of eggs and thickening it with corn starch or some other 
starchy material. While such a mixture is not a true custard, it 
makes an excellent dessert. 

44. In the cooking of mixtures containing eggs, no utensil proves 
quite so satisfactory as the double boiler, which has already been 



§ 8 EGGS 23 

explained and illustrated. In fact, it is almost impossible to cook 
an egg mixture directly over the flame on account of the difficulty 
encountered in preventing the eggs from curdling. The low temper- 
ature at which cooking is possible in the double boiler makes it a 
comparatively simple matter to bring a mixture to the proper con- 
sistency without the formation of curds. Still, a certain amount of 
precaution must be taken even with a double boiler. If the degree 
of heat that is reached in this utensil is applied too long, the result 
will be no more satisfactory than when mixtures are exposed directly 
to the heat and cooked at a high temperature. While every effort 
should be made to cook mixtures containing eggs, such as custards 
or mayonnaise, so as to prevent curds from forming, occasionally 
they will form in spite of all that can be done. However, it is some- 
times possible to remedy the matter by placing the vessel at once in 
cold water and beating the mixture rapidly with a Dover egg beater 
until the curds disappear. The cold water cools the mixture and 
prevents the formation of more curds, and the beating breaks up 
those which have already formed, provided they are not too hard. 

45. In addition to the uses already mentioned, eggs have numer- 
ous other uses in cooking with which the housewife should be 
familiar. For instance, slightly beaten egg is used to a great extent 
to make crumbs or meal adhere to the surface of croquettes, meat, 
oysters, etc. that are to be sauted or fried in deep fat, a coating of 
this kind preventing the food from becoming soaked with grease. 
In addition, egg is used to stick flour together for certain kinds of 
dough, such as noodles. Then, again, it is much used to puff up 
mixtures and produce a hollow space in them, as in popovers and 
cream puffs. While such mixtures do not require beating, spongy 
mixtures, such &s omelets and sponge cakes, do. In these, eggs are an 
important factor, and they must be thoroughly beaten in order to 
incorporate the air in small bubbles and thus produce the desired 
texture. 



SERVING OF EGGS 

46. The manner of serving eggs depends, of course, on the way 
in which they are cooked. One point, however, that should never be 
overlooked, so far as eggs that are to be served hot is concerned, is 
that they should be served immediately upon being prepared, so that 
they will not have an opportunity to become cool before being eaten. 



24 EGGS § 8 

This applies particularly to any spongy mixture, such as pufif omelet 
and souffle, as these dishes shrink upon standing and become less 
appetizing in both appearance and texture. 

Several ways of serving soft-cooked eggs are in practice, but 
probably the most satisfactory way is to serve them in egg cups. 
In case cups are used, they should be heated before being placed on 
the table, as the heat that they retain helps to keep the eggs warm. 
The eggs may be removed from the shell into the cup and eaten from 
the cup, or the unbroken egg may be placed point downwards in the 
small end of the cup, a small piece broken from the broad end of 
the shell, and the egg then eaten from the shell through the opening 
made in it. If egg cups are not available, the eggs may be removed 
from the shell and served in small dessert dishes, which also should 
be heated. 

Many egg dishes are made more attractive and appetizing by 
means of a garnish of some kind. Small strips or triangular pieces 
of toast, sprays of parsley, celery leaves, lettuce, and strips of 
pimiento are very satisfactory for this purpose. If no other, garnish 
is desired, just a sprinkling of paprika adds a touch of color. 

47. In connection with the serving of eggs it will be well to note 
that they have a tendency to adhere to china and to discolor silver. 
Therefore, in the washing of china and the cleaning of silver that have 
been used in the serving of raw or slightly cooked eggs, much care 
should be exercised. Dishes in which eggs of this kind have been 
served should first be washed in cool water in order to remove all 
the egg, and then they should be thoroughly washed in hot water. 
If the hot water is applied first, the heat will cause the egg to coagu- 
late and cling to the dishes. Silver that comes in contact with eggs 
tarnishes or becomes discolored through the action of the sulphur 
that is found in them, just as it does when it is exposed to the air. 
Dark spots that appear on silver from this source may be removed 
by means of a good silver cleaner. 



EGGS 25 



EGG RECIPES 

48. To enable the housewife to prepare many of the dishes 
already mentioned, as well as many other egg dishes, a number of 
recipes are here given. These recipes pertain to the cooking of eggs 
alone in various ways or to dishes in which eggs are the leading 
ingredient. There are, of course, numerous other dishes in which 
eggs are required, such as custards, cakes, mayonnaise, etc., but these 
are omitted here, as recipes for them are included in the lessons that 
pertain directly to them. In the first few recipes, the ingredients are 
omitted and merely directions given, for the eggs themselves are 
practically the only thing required, especially so far as the cooking is 
concerned. However, in the majority of cases, the ingredients are 
listed in the usual manner and explicit directions then given for 
carrying out the recipe. 

49. Soft-Cooked, or Jellied, Eggs. — Eggs that are cooked 
soft, or jellied, may be used for any meal in which plain eggs 
can be served. When properly prepared, they are both digestible 
and attractive, and any person who is able to eat eggs at all can eat 
them in this form. 

To prepare soft-cooked, or jellied, eggs, first bring to the boiling 
point sufficient water to cover well the desired number of eggs, which 
is usually 1 pint of water to each egg. Then drop the eggs into the 
water carefully, remove the pan from the fire, place a cover on it, 
and set it on the back of the stove, where the water will not heat 
further nor cool too rapidly. Allow the eggs 'to remain in the water 
for 5 minutes. 

When eggs cooked in this manner are served, they will be found to 
be the consistency of jelly all the way through. This method of 
cooking is preferable to boiling them for 3, 4, or 5 minutes, because 
boiling cooks the white just inside the shell very hard, while the yolk 
of the egg remains liquid. 

50. Poached Eggs. — Eggs properly poached make a very 
attractive breakfast dish, but the poaching should be well done in 
order to have the dish attractive and digestible. The food value of 
a plain poached egg is, of course, identically the same as that of a 



26 



EGGS 



§8 



soft-cooked, a hard-cooked, or a raw egg. Eggs are usually poached 
in a shallow pan, although egg poachers are to be had. 

To poach eggs in a shallow pan, pour into the pan sufficient water 
to cover the eggs that are to be cooked, add a teaspoonful of salt 
or of vinegar for each pint of water, and bring it to the boiling point. 
Remove the pan from the flame or reduce the heat so that the water 
will cease to boil. Break the eggs, one at a time, into a saucer and 
then slide them carefully into the water. Do not allow the water to 
boil after the eggs have been added, as boiling toughens the egg 
white and in addition causes considerable loss by tearing it into 
shreds. When the eggs are set, remove them carefully frorri the 
water and season them with salt and pepper. A convenient way to 
remove the eggs is to use a large spoon that has holes in the bowl 




Fig. 12 

for draining off the water. The salt or vinegar is added to the water 
before cooking in order to solidify the albumen and keep it in a mass. 
An egg poacher contains a perforated section of metal just large 
enough to hold an egg. In poaching eggs with such a utensil, the 
perforated part is placed over a pan of boiling water ; then the egg is 
carefully slid into it, and allowed to poach. Eggs prepared in this 
way are really cooked by steam and are found to be very satisfactory. 

51. Poached Eggs on Toast. — Eggs poached according to 
the directions just given can be made both appetizing and attractive 
by serving them on toast, as shown in Fig. 12 ; indeed, the addition 
of toast to a poached egg adds a quantity of carbohydrate, a food 
principle in which the egg is lacking. If the toast is buttered, fat is 
added, and such a dish, together with fruit, makes a very excellent 
breakfast. A slice of toast of medium size with the usual amount 
of butter and egg will have a food value of about 225 calories. In 



§ 8 EGGS 27 

preparing poached eggs on toast, the usual custom is to butter shces 
of freshly made toast, moisten them with hot milk or cream, and 
place on them freshly poached eggs. The eggs are then seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and, if desired, a little piece of butter may be 
dropped on each one. To add to the attractiveness of such a dish, 
the toast may be cut round with a cookie cutter or a square piece 
may be cut diagonally to make two triangular pieces. 

52. Hard-Cooked Eggs. — Eggs that are cooked hard may be 
served hot or cold, or they may be used in numerous ways, as, for 
example, to garnish a dish to which the addition of protein is desira- 
ble or to supply a high-protein dish for some light meal. 

To prepare hard-cooked eggs, bring to the boiling point suffi- 
cient water to cover well the desired number of eggs, about 1 pint 
of water for each egg to be cooked usually being sufficient. Care- 
fully drop the eggs into the water and place the pan on the back of 
the stove where the water will not boil, but will stay hot. Allow the 
eggs to remain in the hot water for 45 minutes ; then remove them, 
and if they are desired hot, serve them at once. If they are not to 
be served hot, pour cold water over them and allow them to cool 
before removing the shells in order to prevent the yolks from dis- 
coloring. 

When prepared in this way, eggs. will be found to be tender and 
at the same time well cooked ; whereas, if they are cooked at the 
boiling point, they are certain to be tough and leathery and conse- 
quently less digestible. 

53. Fried Eggs. — Fried eggs are likely to be more or less 
indigestible, because the hot fat coagulates the protein and makes it 
very hard. The addition of fat, however, increases the food value 
of the eggs to a certain extent. To fry eggs, melt enough butter or 
other fat in a frying pan to cover its surface well. Break the eggs 
one at a time into a saucer and slip them into the hot fat. Season 
with salt and pepper. Fry until the white has become well solidified 
on the bottom, and then either turn them over or put a few drops of 
water in the pan and cover it tight with a cover, so that the steam 
will cook the top of the egg. Fry until the desired degree of hard- 
ness has been obtained, and then serve. 

54. Scrambled Eggs. — ^A pleasing variety from the usual 
methods of preparation is offered by means of scrambled eggs, which 



28 EGGS § 8 

are not difficult to make. Too long cooking, however, should be 
guarded against, for it will cause the protein in the eggs to become 
too hard and to separate from the liquid and will produce watery 
scrambled eggs. To be most satisfactory, they should be taken from 
the pan just before they have finished cooking, for the heat that they 
hold will complete it. Eggs prepared in this way, according to the 
accompanying recipe, may be served on toast or with ham and bacon. 
If they are served with meat, a smaller portion of meat should be 
given to a person than is ordinarily served. 

Scrambled Eggs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 eggs i tsp. pepper 

f c. milk 2 Tb. butter 

I tsp. salt 

Beat the eggs slightly, and to them add the milk and seasonings. 
Melt the butter in a frying pan and, when the butter is hot, pour the 
egg mixture into it. As the eggs begin to thicken, stir them up from 
the bottom of the pan and continue to stir them until the entire mass 
has thickened slightly. Before the eggs are entirely cooked, remove 
them from the pan. Bacon and ham fat may be used instead of 
butter, and they are strongly recommended if they can be secured, 
for they lend an excellent flavor to scrambled eggs. 

55. Scrambled Eggs With Toinato. — The addition of 
tomato to scrambled eggs lends an unusual flavor as well as a little 
variety to the dish. The same conditions apply to the cooking of 
scrambled eggs with tomato as apply to plain scrambled eggs ; namely, 
that too long cooking ruins them. The onion included in the recipe 
here given may be omitted from the dish if it is not desirable. The 
fat to be used may be in the form of butter, although bacon or ham 
fat may be substituted to give an agreeable flavor. 

Scrambled Eggs With Tomato 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 Tb. fat i tsp. salt 

1 slice onion ^ tsp. pepper 

1 c. stewed tomatoes 6 eggs 

Put the fat into a frying pan, and when this grease is hot add the 
slice of onion and fry it until it is brown. Remove the onion from 
the fat, and add the stewed tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Then beat 
the eggs slightly and add them to the hot tomato. Stir the mixture 



r 



§8 EGGS \ 29 

slowly from the bottom of the pan until it is slightly thickened. 
Remove from the pan and serve hot. 

56. Scrambled Eggs on Toast. — The addition of cheese to 
eggs, as in the accompanying recipe, makes a dish that is very high 
in protein and usually pleasing in flavor. So as not to overcook the 
eggs in this dish, they should be cooked only slightly in the pan, 
because they receive additional cooking when the dish is placed in 
the oven to melt the cheese. Browning the cheese slightly on top 
makes a very attractive dish, especially when garnished with parsley. 

Scrambled Eggs on Toast 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 eggs 2 Tb. fat 

f c. milk i c. grated cheese 

I tsp. salt 6 slices of toast 

i tsp. pepper 
Beat the eggs slightly, and to them add the milk, salt, and pepper. 
Melt the fat in a frying pan, and when it is hot add the egg mixture. 
Stir the mixture as it cooks until it has thickened slightly ; then pour 
it over the slices of toast placed in a shallow pan. Sprinkle the 
grated cheese over the top, and place under a lighted broiler or in a 
very hot oven until the cheese melts. Remove to a platter, garnish 
with parsley, and serve. 

57. Scrambled Eggs With Ham. — The accompanying recipe 
affords an excellent way in which to use up the little scraps of ham 
that may be cut from the bone when it is impossible to cut enough 
nice looking pieces to serve as a cold dish. Eggs prepared in this 
way will be found very tasty and will take the place of a meat dish 
for luncheon or supper. 

Scrambled Eggs With Ham 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 eggs i tsp. pepper 

1 c. milk 1 c. chopped cooked ham 

i tsp. salt 2 Tb. fat 

Beat the eggs slightly, and to them add the milk, salt, pepper, and 
ham. Melt the fat in a frying pan and scramble the mixture as 
directed in Art. 54 until it is slightly thickened. Remove from the 
stove and serve at once. If desired, this dish may be served on toast. 
Other left-over meat, such as roast beef or pork, may be used in 
place of ham, but such meats do not make so tasty a dish, the flavor 
of ham in such a combination being more desirable. 



30 



EGGS 



§8 



58. Plain Omelet. — The simplest type of omelet, which is 
known as plain omelet, does not differ materially from scrambled 
eggs, except that the whole is collected in a mass in an omelet shape. 
No difficulty will be experienced in making such an omelet if the 
directions in the recipe here given are followed explicitly. To make 
this dish more attractive, some food of a contrasting color, such as 
jelly or tomatoes, may be used for garnishing. 

Plain Omelet 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 eggs i tsp. pepper 

6 Tb. water 3 Tb. fat 

i tsp. salt 
Beat the eggs, and to thenl add the water, salt, ana pepper. Heat 
the fat in an omelet pan or a small frying pan, and when it is hot add 
the egg mixture. When the egg on the bottom of the pan has thick- 




FiG. 13 

ened, tip the pan and draw the thickenea portion toward the handle 
with the end of a knife, allowing the uncooked egg to run over the 
pan, and when that has thickened on the bottom, draw it up as 
before. Repeat until all of the egg has been cooked and an oblong- 
shaped omelet is formed. Place on a hot platter or plate, garnish 
with parsley or jelly, and serve. 

59. Puff Omelet. — Many housewives consider it to be a very 

difficult thing to make a puff omelet successfully ; but such need not 
be the case if fresh eggs are used and the usual' amount of care is 
taken in its preparation. The whites of the eggs must not be over- 
beaten, as too much beating will cause the loss of air and will not 
permit the omelet to become sufficiently light. Another precaution 
is that the mixture should not be overcooked, for the application of 
heat after it has been sufficiently cooked will cause it to shrink. How 
a puff omelet made according to the recipe here given should look, 



§8 



EGGS 



31 



is shown in Fig. 13. This is a very pleasing dish and never fails to 
appeal to those persons who are fond of eggs. 

Puff Omelet 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. bread crumbs i tsp. salt 

4 Tb. milk ^ tsp. pepper 

4 eggs 3 Tb. fat 

Soak the bread crumbs in the milk. Separate the yolks and whites 

of the eggs. Beat the egg yolks and add them to the crumbs and 

milk. Add the salt and pepper. Beat the egg whites until stiff and 

fold them carefully into the yolk mixture. Heat the fat in an omelet 

pan or a frying pan, and when it is hot pour the mixture into it. 

Cook over a very slow fire, being careful not to burn the mixture, 

until a knife can be 

slipped under and the 

whole mixture raised. 

By this time the top 

should be quite puffed 

up. Place the pan in a 

hot oven, where the ome- 
let should puff still more, 

and cook until it is no 

longer raw. With a 

knife, score across 

through the center on a 

straight line with the 

handle. Then carefully 

fold the omelet double, ^'°- 1* 

roll it out on a hot platter or plate, as shown in Fig. 14, garnish -with 

parsley, and serve at once. If an omelet of this kind stands for any 

length of time after it is served, it will shrink and be much less 

appetizing. 

60. Cheese Omelet. — If an additional amount of protein in 
the form of casein is desired in an omelet, the accompanying recipe 
for cheese omelet should be tried. The addition of cheese makes 
this dish even a better meat substitute than either the plain or 
the puff omelet. Likewise, the cheese adds flavor, which may be 
increased if desired by the addition of more cheese than the recipe 
calls for. Although this recipe mentions butter, fat other than butter 
may be used. 




32 EGGS § 8 

Cheese Omelet 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. grated cheese i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. bread crumbs i tsp. pepper 

4 Tb. milk 3 Tb. butter 

4 eggs 
Mix the grated cheese with the bread crumbs, milk, egg yolks, salt, 
and pepper. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff and fold them 
into the other ingredients. To cook the omelet, proceed according 
to the directions given for making puff omelet in Art. 59. 

61. Tomato Omelet. — The addition of tomatoes to an omelet 

makes an attractive dish as far as color is concerned, and, at the same 

time, it gives variety by improving the flavor. Such an omelet is also 

less concentrated than a plain omelet, for the tomatoes provide bulk 

and additional water is added. While in a way these lower the 

food value of the dish, the loss is more than made up by the qualities 

that are added. 

Tomato Omelet 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 eggs i tsp. pepper 

i c. milk 3 Tb. fat 

i tsp. salt 2 medium-sized ripe tomatoes 

Beat the eggs, and to them add the milk, salt, and pepper. Heat 
the fat in a pan large enough to make the egg mixture i inch deep 
when poured into it. Cook slowly until it is well done. Peel and cut 
the tomatoes into slices i inch thick. Place the sliced tomatoes on 
one half of the omelet, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, score the 
omelet through the center, and fold the other half over the tomatoes. 
Then slide the omelet on a hot platter, garnish with lettuce or pars- 
ley, and serve at once. 

62. "Variety in Omelets. — From the recipes given for ome- 
lets, it will be noted that this dish may be made plain or may be 
varied by adding ingredients that provide flavoring or increase the 
nutritive value. In addition to the suggestions that have been made 
in these recipes, there is an almost endless number of ways in which 
omelets may be varied. For instance, left-over bits of any kind of 
meat, such as a roast, a steak, or chops, from the day before or bits 
of bacon fried for a previous meal may be chopped fine and utilized 
for this purpose. Cheese cut fine or grated and mixed with the eggs 
helps to make a delicious omelet. Bread crumbs, cracker crumbs, 
rice, riced potatoes, or left-over cereal may be used, as well as mush- 



18 



EGGS 



33 



rooms, chopped or whole, and oysters raw or previously scalloped or 
fried and then chopped. Bits of fish, such as left-over crab or 
lobster, will do nicely for increasing variety. Often jelly, jam, and 
fruit or vegetables are folded inside after the omelet is cooked. 

63. Stuffed Egg^s. — A highly seasoned cold dish that is deli- 
cious for picnics or cold lunches can be made by removing the yolks 
from hard-cooked eggs, seasoning them, and then stuffing them into 
the whites, as is explained in the recipe here given. Eggs so pre- 
pared also make a desirable high-protein dish for summer weather 
when meat dishes fail to appeal to the appetite. Wafers or tiny 
bread-and-butter sandwiches served with stuffed eggs make them 
more attractive. 

Stuffed Eggs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 hard-cooked eggs -J tsp. paprika 

i tsp. salt i tsp. mustard 

i tsp. pepper 2 Tb. vinegar 

Cut the eggs in half, either lengthwise or crosswise. Remove the 

yolks, mash them, add to them the salt, pepper, paprika, mustard. 




Fig. 15 

and vinegar, and mix thoroughly. Fill the egg whites with the yolk 
mixture. The eggs will be much more appetizing in appearance if 
the yolk is not packed smoothly back into the white but allowed to 
stand up roughly. The plate on which the eggs are served should 
be nicely garnished with lettuce, parsley, or celery leaves. 

64. Creamed Eggs. — If a dish that will serve well for 
luncheon or a light supper is desired, creamed eggs, as illustrated in 
Fig. 15, will be found very satisfactory, for the cream sauce that is 
served on them and the toast on which the eggs are placed add carbo- 
hydrate to an otherwise high-protein dish. The eggs used in this 



34 



EGGS 



§8 



dish must be hard-cooked in water, so as not to be indigestible. 
Paprika sprinkled over the top and parsley used as a garnish add 
colors that make the dish very attractive. 

Creamed Eggs 

(Su£Scient to Serve Six) 

li c. milk i tsp. paprika 

2 Tb. fat 6 hard-cooked eggs 

2 Tb. flour 6 slices of toast 

i tsp. salt 
Heat the nulk. Put the fat in a saucepan and heat it until it is 
light brown ; then add the flour, salt, and paprika to the melted fat 
and mix all thoroughly. Pour in the hot milk and stir the mixture 
constantly until the sauce has become smooth and thick. Cut the 
hard-cooked eggs into halves while they are hot, and place two halves 
with the cut sides down on each piece of toast. Pour the white sauce 
over all, sprinkle with paprika, and serve. 

65. Eg-gs a la Goldenrod. — Closely resembling creamed eggs 
in composition and food value, but differing from them somewhat in 




Fig. 16 

appearance, are eggs a la goldenrod, which are illustrated in Fig. 16. 
This is, perhaps, even a more attractive dish if it is nicely made than 
creamed eggs, and many persons who do not like hard-cooked eggs 
find this dish agreeable and are able to digest it. 
Eggs a la Goldenrod 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. milk i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. fat 4 hard-cooked eggs 

2 Tb. flour 6 slices of toast 

■J tsp. salt 
Heat the milk. Brown the fat in a saucepan, add the flour, salt, 
and pepper, and mix well. Then add the hot milk and stir until the 



§ 8 EGGS 35 

sauce thickens. Chop the whites of the hard-cooked eggs into small 
pieces, and mix them with the white sauce. Arrange the toast on a 
platter and pour the sauce over it. Put the hard-cooked egg yolks 
through a sieve or a ricer and sprinkle them on top of the white 
sauce. Serve hot. 

66. Scalloped Eggs. — A quantity of carbohydrate is added to 
eggs when they are scalloped, for the white sauce and the cracker 
crumbs that are used in this dish supply this food substance. The 
cold meat that this dish requires and that should be well chopped 
into small pieces may be left-over from roasted, stewed, or even 
broiled meat. As this provides an additional amount of protein, the 
dish on the whole serves as an excellent substitute for meat with 
carbohydrate added. 

Scalloped Eggs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. milk 2 Tb. flour 

2 Tb. fat 1 c. cracker crumbs 

•J tsp. salt 4 hard-cooked eggs 

■J tsp. pepper 1 c. chopped cold meat 

Heat the milk. Brown the fat in a saucepan, add the salt, pepper, 
and flour, and mix well. To this add the hot milk. Cook until the 
sauce thickens, stirring constantly. Grease a baking dish and place 
in it i cupful of the cracker crumbs. Over the crumbs arrange two 
of the eggs sliced thinly, and on the top of the eggs put half of the 
meat. Repeat by adding a layer of J cupful of the crumbs, the 
remaining eggs sliced, and the remainder of the meat. Pour 
the white sauce over all and arrange the remaining i cupful of 
crumbs on top. Bake in a moderate oven for ^ hour. Serve hot 
from the baking dish. 

67. Individual Baking Dishes for Egg Recipes. 

Although the directions given in the preceding recipe for scalloped 
eggs state that this recipe is baked in a baking dish, it is not neces- 
sary that one large dish of this kind be used, for, if desired, 
individual baking dishes may be substituted. In fact, any recipe for 
which a large baking dish would ordinarily be used may be baked in 
the small dishes used for a single serving, and eggs prepared in this 
way are especially attractive. Such dishes are also used for the 
baking of custards or the molding of jelly and blanc mange. Since 
they prove very useful and find so much favor, it is advisable for 

WI— C2-8 



36 EGGS § 8 

every housewife to add a few of them to her supply of utensils and 
to become familiar with the varieties that can be secured and the 
proper way to use them. 

Dishes of this kind may be purchased in both cheap and expensive 
varieties and in plain or fancy styles, being made of white porcelain, 
of glass, or of the brown ware so much used for large baking dishes 
and casseroles and having a white glazing on the inside. 

68. When such dishes are used as a means of adding variety to 
the cooking and serving of eggs, they should be placed in the oven in 
a shallow pan containing enough hot water to come nearly to the top 
of them. The object of this plan is to keep the temperature uniform. 
As long as the dishes are surrounded by water, the food to be 
cooked will not attain a greater heat than 212 degrees Fahrenheit, 
because the surrounding water cannot reach a higher temperature. 
Food cooked in this way will be found to be baked much more evenly 
and to be of a better consistency than food that is subjected to the 
high temperature of the oven. Most of the recipes that follow, while 
they can be baked in large baking dishes if desired and then served 
from the dish, are designed particularly to be used in individual 
baking dishes. 

69. Baked Eggs in Cream. — A dish that is particularly desir- 
able for breakfast, but that may be served for luncheon, is made by 
baking eggs in cream according to the accompanying recipe. Besides 
being very appetizing, this dish is high in food value because of the 
addition of the cream and fat. Crisp toast served with eggs pre- 
pared in this way is very delightful. 

Baked Eggs in Cream 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 eggs i tsp. pepper 

1 Tb. butter f c. cream 

i tsp. salt 
Grease six individual baking dishes and break an egg into each. 
Put a small piece of butter on top of each egg and season with salt 
and pepper. Pour over each egg two tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Place the baking dishes in a shallow pan of hot water and bake until 
the eggs are as hard as desired. Serve hot. 

70. Shirred Eggs With Ham. — An excellent way in which 
to utilize scraps of ham is to combine them with eggs to make a 
dish that may be served in place of meat. This dish, besides being 



§ 8 EGGS 37 

high in food value, is very tasty because of the flavor of the ham and 
the fact that it is quite highly seasoned. 

Shirred Eggs With Ham 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i tsp. prepared mustard 6 eggs 

i tsp. pepper ^ tsp. salt 

1 c. chopped ham 1 Tb. butter 

Grease six individual baking dishes. Mix the mustard and pepper 
with the ham, and then divide this mixture as evenly as possible into 
the baking dishes. Break an egg on top of the ham in each dish, 
season with salt, and put a small piece of butter on each. Place the 
dishes in a shallow pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven 
until the eggs are well set or hardened. Remove from the oven and 
serve at once. 

71. Egg Souffle. — If a delicate dish for children or invalids 
is desired, egg souffle will answer the purpose very well. This dish 
is light in character, but it is high in protein and to most persons is 
very delightful. It is more attractive if baked in individual baking 
dishes, but it may be baked in a large baking dish and served directly 
from the dish. To improve the flavor of egg souffle and make it a 
more appetizing dish, tomato sauce is often served with it. 

Egg Souffle 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 c. milk i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. fat 1 Tb. chopped parsley 
2 Tb. flour 4 eggs 

Heat the milk. Brown the fat in a saucepan, add to it the flour, 
salt, and parsley, and mix well. Pour in the hot milk, stir constantly 
until the sauce thickens, and then remove from the fire. Separate 
the eggs and add the well-beaten yolks to the sauce, stirring rapidly 
so that the egg will not curd. Beat the whites stiff and fold them 
carefully into the sauce. Turn into well-greased individual baking 
dishes until they are about two-thirds full, place in a shallow pan of 
hot water, and bake until firm when touched with the finger. Serve 
at once in the dishes in which they are baked, because they shrink 
when they are allowed to cool. 

72. The tomato sauce that is often served with egg- souffle is 
made as follows : 

Tomato Sauce 
li c. strained stewed tomatoes i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. fat 2 Tb. flour 

i tsp. salt 



38 



EGGS 



§8 



Force enough stewed tomatoes through a sieve to make H cupfuls 
of strained tomato. Heat the strained tomato and to it add the fat, 
salt, and pepper. Moisten the flour with a little cold water and add 
it to the hot tomato. Cook for 5 minutes. Serve over the souffle. 

73. Alpine Eggs. — It is rather unusual to combine cream or 
cottage cheese with eggs, so that when this is done, as in the accom- 
panying recipe, a dish that is out of the ordinary is the result. If 
not a sufficient amount of cottage cheese is in supply to serve for a 
meal, it may very well be used for this dish. Otherwise, cream 
cheese serves nicely. 

Alpine Eggs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 4-oz. pkgs. cream cheese or 2 Tb. finely chopped parsley 

1 c. cottage cheese -J tsp. paprika 

6 eggs 1 Tb. butter 
i tsp. salt 

Grease six individual baking dishes. Break up the cheese with a 
fork and sprinkle a layer on the bottom of each dish. Break an egg 




Fig. 17 

in each dish over the cheese. Season with salt. Sprinkle a layer of 
cheese on top of the egg, and over that put chopped parsley, paprika, 
and a small piece of butter. Place the baking dishes in a shallow 
pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are set. 
Remove from the oven and serve at once. 

74. Clipped Eggs. — The chief value of clipped eggs is their 
appearance, which, as will be observed in Fig. 17, is very attractive. 
This dish adds much to the breakfast tray of an invalid or will tempt 
the appetite of a child who does not feel like eating. But in addi- 



§ 8 EGGS 39 

tion to being attractive, this dish is high in food value, for in this 
respect it is exactly equivalent to a poached egg on toast or a plain 
egg served with a piece of toast to which is added a small amount 
of butter. 

Clipped Eggs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 pieces toast i tsp. salt 

3 Tb. butter i tsp. pepper 

6 eggs 
Butter the toast with some of the butter. Separate the whites and 
yolks of the eggs without breaking the yolks. Beat the whites stiff, 
and put a mound of the beaten white on top of each piece of buttered 
toast. Make a hole in the center of the mound of egg white and drop 
the unbroken yolk into it. Season each with salt and pepper and 
bits of the remaining butter. Place in a hot oven and bake until the 
yolk is set and the white slightly browned. Serve hot. 

75. Left-Over Eggs. — It is not a difficult matter to utilize 
eggs in any form in which they may be left over, for they combine 
readily with many other foods. For instance, left-over hard-cooked 
eggs may be sliced or chopped and used to garnish dishes of vege- 
tables, meat, fish, or salads. Eggs cooked in this way may also be 
stuffed according to the recipe given in Art. 63, or they may be 
crushed and mixed with seasoning for sandwiches. If any soft- 
cooked eggs remain after a meal, they should be hard-cooked in 
order to be used to the best advantage. Left-over omelet or scram- 
bled, poached, or fried eggs may be chopped and added to soups, 
sauces, or gravies, or combined with small pieces of meat or fish and 
used with crumbs and white sauce to make a scalloped dish. 

Even uncooked eggs that are taken from the shells, but that can- 
not be Used at once, need not be wasted if proper care is given to 
them to prevent the formation of a hard crust over their surface. 
Such eggs should be put into a dish that will allow as little of the 
surface as possible to be exposed and should be covered with cold 
water and kept in a cool place. When they are desired for use, the 
water should be poured off carefully so as to prevent the loss of any 
of the egg. 



40 EGGS § 8 



BREAKFAST MENU 

76. So that a definite idea may be formed of the student's prog- 
ress in cookery, there is here presented a breakfast menu that is to 
be prepared and reported on at the same time that the answers to the 
Examination Questions are sent. This menu is practical and it may 
be easily prepared, as all the dishes it contains have already been 
considered. 

MENU 

Sliced Bananas Cream of Wheat 

Graham Muffins Butter 

Puff Omelet 

Coffee 

In most homes, breakfast is a meal that is gathered together with 
as little thought and preparation as possible. The reason for this 
is that the housewife feels that she does not wish to rise early enough 
in the morning to prepare an elaborate menu. Breakfast, however, 
should be the most attractive meal in the day, because it is one that 
gives to each member of the family the right start for the day and 
sustains him until luncheon time. In most cases, a cup of coffee and 
a slice or two of toast do not start one with a cheerful attitude, nor 
do they contain sufficient food value to nourish the individual prop- 
erly. With a little forethought and planning, certain foods may be 
partly prepared for breakfast the day before. If this is done, the 
time required for the actual preparation of the breakfast need not 
be greatly increased. For example, in the accompanying menu, the 
cream of wheat may be cooked the evening before, the materials for 
the graham muffins measured, and even the pan in which they are 
to be baked greased, and the materials for the omelet collected and 
measured. If all this is done, the preparation necessary in the 
morning will consist merely of slicing the bananas, reheating the 
cream of wheat, preparing the coffee, baking the muffins, and mak- 
ing the omelet. While the coffee and cream of wheat are heating or 
cooking, the oven will be heating, so that when the muffins are 
mixed it will be ready to bake them ; and while these are baking the 
omelet may be prepared. When this is done, all will be ready to 
serve. 



EGGS 



EXAMINATIOIV QUESTIONS 

(1) Give a brief description of the physical structure of an egg. 

(2) (o) Why are eggs an important article of diet? (6) For what foods 
may they be substituted ? 

(3) (o) Mention the food substances that are found in an egg, and give 
the percentage of each one. (&) What food substance is lacking in eggs, and 
how may it be supplied? 

(4) What is the chief food substance in: (o) an egg white? (6) an egg 
yolk? 

(5) Discuss briefly the digestibility of eggs. 

(6) (a) Of what value is the grading of eggs? (6) What points are con- 
sidered when eggs are graded? 

(7) (o) What conditions affect the quality of eggs? (6) Mention the 
agencies that render the quality of eggs inferior and explain how they work. 

(8) How can the quality of eggs be determined: (a) in the market? 
(b) in the home? 

(9) (o) What is the common commercial means of preserving eggs? 
(&) How is it beneficial to the housewife? 

(10) (a) Mention the various ways by which eggs may be preserved in 
the home. (&) Explain the preservation of eggs with water glass. 

(11) When may the shells of eggs be washed? 

(12) (a) What is the preferable method of breaking an egg ? (&) Explain 
how the yolk and the white of an egg may be separated. 

(13) (o) For what purposes are eggs beaten? (6) With what kind of 
egg beater should egg yolks or whole eggs be beaten? 

(14) (o) With what kind of utensil should egg whites be beaten? 
(&) Why should egg whites not be allowed to stand after beating? 

(15) (a) What is the effect of heat upon an egg? (&) Why are eggs 
cooked in the shell better if they are cooked at a temperature lower than boil- 
ing point? (c) Cook an egg by boiling it rapidly for 20 minutes. Cook 

§8 



2 EGGS § 8 

another egg according to the directions given in Art. 53. Remove the shells 
while the eggs are warm, compare the texture, and report the differences. 

(16) (o) When eggs are used in a mixture that is to be cooked for a long 
time, when should they be added? (6) What can be substituted for some of 
the eggs in a mixture that requires eggs for thickening? 

(17) (a) What point should never be overlooked in the serving of eggs 
that are intended to be served hot? (6) Why should spongy egg dishes be 
served immediately after cooking? 

(18) (a) How should dishes that have contained eggs be washed? 
(b) Why is such care necessary? 

(19) (o) What precautions should be taken in the making of a puff 
omelet? (6) Mention some of the things that may be used to give variety 
to omelets. 

(20) (a) What are the advantages of individual baking dishes ? (6) State 
how these should be put in the oven and explain the object of this plan. 



REPORT ON MENU 

After trying out the menu given in the text, send with your answers to the 
Examination Questions a written report of your success in making it. On 
your report simply write the name of the food and describe its condition by 
means of the terms specified in the following list : 

Cream of Wheat: thin? thick? properly seasoned? smooth? lumpy? 

Graham Muffins : light ? heavy ? texture coarse ? texture fine ? even brown 
color on crust ? well flavored ? 

Puff Omelet : light ? heavy ? underdone ? overdone ? even brown on bottom ? 
tough? tender? properly seasoned' 



VEGETABLES 

(PART 1) 



IMPORTANCE OF VEGETABLES AS FOOD 



VARIETY IN VEGETABLES 

1. As understood in cookery, vegetables refer to plants or 
parts of plants that are used as food. Vegetables may consist of 
the entire plant, as, for example, the beet; the stem, as asparagus 
and celery; the root, as carrot and turnip; the underground stem, 
or tuber, as the white potato and onion ; the foliage, as cabbage and 
spinach ; the flower of the plant, as cauliflower ; the pods, which 
hold the seeds of the plant or the seeds themselves, as peas and 
beans ; or that which in reality is fruit, although for table use always 
considered a vegetable, as the tomato and eggplant. 

2. Because of this large assortment, vegetables afford the 
greatest possible variety in flavor, appearance, texture, quality, and 
food value. They therefore assume a place of very great importance 
in the diet of individuals and in the plans of the housewife who has 
all the meals to prepare for her family. In fact, there is scarcely 
a meal, except breakfast, at which vegetables are not served. For 
dinner, they form a part or all of each course in the meal, except, 
perhaps, the dessert, and occasionally they may be used for this. 

Although two or more vegetables are nearly always served in 
even a simple meal, the use of vegetables in most households in 
limited to those few varieties which are especially preferred by the 
family. As a rule, there are a number of other vegetables that 
would be very acceptable if prepared in certain appetizing ways. 
An effort should therefore be made to include all such vegetables 
in the dietary, for they may be used to decided advantage and at the 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL R1QHT5 RESERVED 

§14 



2 VEGETABLES § 14 

same time they afford variety in the meals. The constant demand 
for variety in this food makes acceptable new recipes for the prep- 
aration of the vegetables already known and information for the use 
of the unfamiliar kinds. 

3. Great variety also exists in the flavor of vegetables, which 
they derive from their volatile oils; that is, the oils that evaporate 
rapidly on exposure to the air. In some cases, the flavor is dis- 
agreeably strong and must be dissipated, or driven away, in order 
to make the vegetables agreeable to the taste and to prevent them 
from disagreeing with those who eat them. In others, the flavor is 
very mild, so that unless the vegetables are properly prepared the 
flavor may be almost lost. When the principles relating to the 
cooking of vegetables are thoroughly understood, little difficulty 
will be experienced in preparing them so that the flavor is dissipated 
or retained as the case may require. 

4. The food value of vegetables varies as much as do their form 
and flavor, some of them having almost no food value, others having 
a great deal, and the remainder varying between these two extremes. 
The housewife who wishes to provide economically for her family 
and at the same time give them food that is best suited to their 
needs, should learn as much of the composition and food value of 
the various kinds of vegetables as possible. If, besides acquiring 
this knowledge, she learns a variety of ways in which to prepare 
each kind, she will find that it is possible to substitute vegetable 
dishes for the more expensive foods. For instance, it is often 
possible to substitute a vegetable dish for a meat dish several times 
a week, but the composition of the vegetable dish must be such that 
it will really take the place of the meat dish. 

5. That it is possible for adults to live on vegetables alone has 
been proved by vegetarians ; that is, persons who exclude meat from 
the diet. They have shown that all the elements necessary to build 
and maintain the human body are contained in vegetables, fruits, 
and cereals, and also that these elements are in such quantity that it 
is not necessary to supply them in any other way. Even if it is not 
desired to use such foods exclusively, as much use should be made 
of them as possible, for they average a lower cost than the high- 
protein foods, such as eggs, meat, and milk. The use of vegetables, 
however, need not be restricted to adults, for when properly pre- 
pared they may be included to advantage in the diet of very young 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 3 

children. In fact, children should be trained to eat vegetables of all 
kinds, for such training not only will enable each one to grow up 
with a correct appreciation for all edible things, but will make the 
preparation of meals easier for the housewife. 

6. Vegetables should receive great care in their preparation, 
whether the method involved is simple or complicated. Any of the 
methods of cookery that call for the application of heat may be 
applied to them, and in many cases they are served without cooking, 
merely dressing or seasoning being added. Good vegetables may 
be ruined by improper preparation, while those which are in excel- 
lent condition may be improved by the application of the correct 
methods in their preparation. Vegetables that are inexpensive but 
highly nutritious should be used when it is necessary to practice 
economy, because, when they are properly prepared, they form a 
valuable addition to a meal. 

7. All varieties of vegetables are grown almost universally. 
This fact, together with the facts that they matiire at different times 
during the season, according to the climate in which they are grown, 
and that most varieties can be conveniently shipped, makes the season 
in which certain fresh vegetables can be obtained much longer than 
it formerly was. For instance, very early in the season, long before 
it is possible to have beans, peas, and other vegetables in the North, 
they are shipped from the extreme South, and as the season 
advances, they mature farther and farther north. Therefore, they 
may be constantly supplied to the northern markets until the time 
when they mature in that locality. 

8. In order not to waste vegetables and to have them in the best 
possible condition when they are desired for preparation, every 
housewife should realize that the selection and care of vegetables 
are also important matters to consider. The selection must be 
learned by familiarity with them, as well as practice in buying, and 
the housewife must be guided by the suitability of the vegetables 
and the money she has to spend for them. The care that must be 
given to them is determined by the kinds that are purchased, some 
requiring one kind of care in storage and others entirely different 
attention. 



VEGETABLES § 14 



STRUCTURE, COMPOSITION, AND FOOD VALUE 

9. Structure of "Vegetables. — Although vegetables vary 
greatly in composition and consequently in food value, they are 
similar so far as physical structure is concerned. In general, they 
consist of a skeleton framework that is made up of cellulose. Their 
digestible part is composed of tiny cells having thin walls that con- 
fine the actual food material in the form of a liquid or semiliquid. 
As the vegetables grow old, the cellulose material and the cell walls 
gradually toughen, with the result that old vegetables are less easily 
made tender than young ones and are not so agreeable to the taste as 
those which have not grown hard. The total food value of vege- 
tables, as well as of cereals, meats, and, in fact, all foods, varies with 
the quantity of water and cellulose they contain. Therefore, the 
vegetables that contain the least coarse material are the ones that 
have the highest food value. 

10. The green color that characterizes many vegetables is due 
to a substance called chlorophyl. This substance is essential to the 
normal growth of plants and is present in the correct amount in only 
those which are properly exposed to the sunlight. Sufficient proof 
of this is seen in the case of vegetables that form heads, as, for 
instance, cabbage and head lettuce. As is well known, the outside 
leaves are green, while the inside ones are practically white. 
Since it is exposure to the light that produces the green color, a 
vegetable or plant of any kind can be bleached by merely covering 
it in order to keep out the sunlight. This procedure also enables the 
plants to remain more tender than those which have been allowed 
to grow in the normal way and become green. For instance, the 
inside leaves of a head of lettuce are always very much more tender 
than the green outside leaves. In fact, the center of any kind of 
plant, that is, the leaves and the stem that appear last, are more 
tender, possess a lighter color, and have a more delicate flavor 
than the older ones. 

11. Protein in "Vegetables. — Taken as a whole, vegetables 
are not high in protein. Some of them contain practically none of 
this food substance and others contain a comparatively large 
amount, but the average is rather low. Vegetables that are high in 
water, such as lettuce, celery, tomatoes, and cucumbers, contain so 
little protein that the quantity is not appreciable. Such vegetables 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 5 

as potatoes, beets, carrots, etc. contain slightly larger quantities. 
Dried vegetables, such as beans, peas, and lentils, contain compara- 
tively large amounts of this substance, and for this reason may be 
substituted for such high-protein foods as meat and fish. 

12. The composition of vegetable protein is only slightly 
different from that of animal protein. In fact, the experiments of 
scientists show that animal protein may be readily replaced by 
vegetable protein. One of these proteins is sometimes called vege- 
table albumin, but the chief protein of vegetables containing the 
largest amount of this substance, namely, beans, peas, and lentils, is 
called legumin, from the term legumes, the name of this class of 
vegetables. It is generally agreed that vegetable protein is not so 
digestible as animal protein, but this disadvantage is offset by the 
fact that it does not bring about so much intestinal trouble as does 
the protein of animal foods and is less likely to cause disturbances 
that are usually attributed to foods high in this substance. Vege- 
table protein is affected by heat in much the same way as other 
protein. 

When any of the dry vegetables high in protein are served at a 
meal, meat should be eliminated, or the result will be an oversupply 
of protein. As this condition is not only harmful but wasteful, it 
is one that should receive proper consideration from the housewife. 

13. Fat in Vegetables. — As vegetables as a class are low in 
protein, so are they low in fat. In the case of some vegetables, the 
quantity of fat they contain is so small that it is never considered 
in discussing the food value of these vegetables, while in others 
slightly larger quantities are to be found. However, on the whole, 
vegetables are so nearly lacking in this food substance that it is 
necessary to supply fat in their preparation and in the serving of 
meals in which they are included. This is done in a variety of ways, 
depending on the nature of the vegetable. For instance, in order 
that baked beans may take the place of meat entirely, fat in the 
form of salt pork is usually added when they are prepared. The 
pork, of course, also supplies a very small amount of protein, but 
it is not used with the beans for this purpose. Practically all cooked 
vegetables are served with butter or with a sauce that contains fat. 
Green vegetables that require no cooking but are served as a salad, 
are supplied with fat by the salad dressing that is used with them. 
The tat varies greatly, depending on the kind of dressing used. 



6 VEGETABLES § 14 

14. Carbohydrates in Vegetables. — When the composition 
of vegetables is considered chemically, the most striking thing about 
them is the carbohydrates they contain. It is this that distinguishes 
this class of foods from animal foods. The carbohydrate of vege- 
tables is found in both its forms, starch and sugar. It is in the form 
of sugar in many of the vegetables when they are young or imma- 
ture, but it turns into starch as they mature. 'This change can be 
easily observed in the case of peas. As is well known, young green 
peas are rather sweet because of the sugar they contain, while 
mature or dried peas have lost their sweetness and are starchy. 
The sugar that is found in large quantities in such vegetables as 
peas, carrots, turnips, etc. is largely cane sugar. The starch that 
vegetables contain occurs in tiny granules, just as it is found in 
cereals, and is affected by cooking in the same way. The mature 
vegetables in which the starch has developed, although less tender 
and less sweet than young ones, have a higher food value. In fact, 
the carbohydrate that vegetables contain constitutes a large pro- 
portion of their food value. 

One of the chief sources of starch among vegetables is the potato, 
in which the starch grains are large and, if properly cooked, easily 
digested. Irish, or white, potatoes contain very little carbohydrate 
in the form of sugar, but in the sweet potato much of the carbo- 
hydrate is sugar. In either of these two forms — starch and sugar — 
vegetable carbohydrate is easily digested. 

15. Mineral Matter, or Ash, in Vegetables. — The mineral 
matter in vegetables is found in comparatively large quantities, the 
average amount being slightly over 1 per cent. The presence of this 
substance is of great value, because the mineral salts of both fruits 
and vegetables are essential in the diet of adults in order to keep 
their health in a normal condition. The mineral salts of vegetables 
render the blood more alkaline instead of more acid, as do those 
contained in cereals and meat. A large number of vegetables, par- 
ticularly those low in food value, such as greens, celery, etc., are very 
valuable for their mineral salts. In reality, this substance and the 
cellulose they contain are the things that recommend the use of 
these vegetables in the diet. Minerals of all kinds are found in 
solution in the water contained in vegetables, but chief among them 
are calcium, sodium, iron, phosphorus, and sulphur. Greens and 
salad vegetables are particularly high in iron, the element that assists 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 7 

in keeping the blood in good condition. These minerals are easily 
lost if the method of cookery is not planned to retain them. 

16. Cellulose in Vegetables. — The special use of cellulose, 
as has already been learned, is to serve as bulk in the food contain- 
ing it. In vegetables, the cellulose varies greatly as to quantity, as well 
as to texture and the amount that can be digested. In young vege- 
tables, it is very soft and perhaps digestible to a certain extent, but 
as they grow older it hardens and they become tough. This fact 
is clearly demonstrated in the case of beets. Those which are pulled 
from the garden in the summer and cooked are tender and soft, but 
those which are allowed to mature in the ground and are then put 
away for winter are, when cooked in the late winter or early spring, 
so hard and tough that it is almost impossible to make them soft. 
The quantity of cellulose that vegetables contain therefore depends 
largely on their age and condition. Those low in total food value 
contain, as a rule, larger quantities of it than those high in food 
value. This is due to the fact that both water and cellulose, which 
are usually found together in large quantities, help to detract from 
the fuel, or food, value of foods. 

Very young persons or those who are ill sometimes find it 
impossible to take in its original form a vegetable that contains a large 
amount of bulk, or cellulose. In such a case, the vegetable may be 
put through a colander or a sieve in order to break up the cellulose 
and make it easier to digest. Under ordinary conditions, cellulose 
should not be avoided, but should be included in large quantities in 
the diet through the vegetables that are consumed daily. 

17. Water In Vegetables. — The majority of vegetables con- 
tain a large quantity of water. Such vegetables as lettuce, cucum- 
bers, tomatoes, etc., which are low in total food value, contain the 
most water, the average percentage being about 95. The dry vege- 
tables, which are high in food value, average only about 10 per cent, 
of water. The water that is found in vegetables, whether it is 
much or little, is contained in cell-like structures surrounded by 
cellulose, and it holds in solution the mineral salts and much of the 
nutriment of the vegetables. In addition, the water holds in solu- 
tion to a certain extent the material that gives vegetables their dis- 
tinctive flavor. When any of this water is lost in the preparation 
of vegetables, the substances that it contains are also lost. It is 
therefore essential that correct methods of preparation be chosen for 



8 VEGETABLES § li 

the cooking of this food, so as to prevent the waste of valuable food 
materials. 

18. Digestibility of Vegetables. — The digestibility of vege- 
tables is largely an individual matter ; that is, a vegetable that agrees 
with one person may not agree with another. The fact that there 
appears to be no apparent reason for such a condition would lead 
to the conclusion that it is due to the peculiarities of the person. 
Because of this, it is not fair to make the general statement that a 
particular vegetable is easy to digest and another one is hard to 
digest. 

The chief cause for difficulty in the digestion of vegetables lies 
in their volatile oils, which give them their flavor, but which are 
irritating to many persons. Vegetables having a strong flavor, such 
as radishes, onions, cucumbers, cabbage, and cauliflower, are the 
ones that disagree most frequently with persons who eat them; but 
sometimes the way in which some of them are cooked has more to 
do with this than the vegetables themselves. 

Vegetables containing considerable cellulose and water do not of 
themselves give trouble in digestion, because they contain practically 
nothing to digest ; but they are sometimes responsible for interfering 
with the digestion of other foods. Vegetables that are extremely 
high in starch, such as potatoes, are easily digested by most persons, 
provided they are properly cooked. For instance, a plain baked 
potato is easily digested, but the same potato sauted in fat is more 
difficult of digestion. 

19. Table Sbovs^ing Coinpositioii and. Food Value of 
Vegetables. — As vegetables vary considerably in the amount of 
the food substances they contain, so do they differ greatly in their 
food value. This is clearly shown in Table I, which gives the per- 
centage of the food substances of vegetables, as well as the food 
value per pound, in calories, that these vegetables contain. The 
figures in this table are taken from Atwater's Table of American 
Food Materials, and refer to the edible portion of the material. In 
the case of several vegetables, no figures are given by this authority, 
but in the table here presented the percentages and the calories for 
the vegetables most similar are used. For example, the figures for 
lettuce are used for endive, as the composition and food value of 
this vegetable are not included and it resembles lettuce very closely 
Constant reference should be made to Table I as progress is maie 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



with the study of vegetables and their preparation. Noting the 
difference in the composition of the different vegetables, as well as 

TABLE I 

COMPOSITIOPT AND FOOD VALUE OF VEGETABLES 



Vegetable 



Asparagus 

Beans 

Dried 

Lima 

Shelled 

String 

Beets 

Brussels sprouts 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Corn 

Cucumbers 

Eggplant 

French artichokes . . . 
Greens 

Dandelion 

Endive 

Spinach 

Swiss chard 

Lettuce 

Watercress 

Jerusalem artichokes 

Kohlrabi 

Lentils, dried 

Mushrooms 

Okra > 

Onions 

Parsnips 

Peas 

Dried 

Green 

Peppers 

Potatoes 

Irish 

Sweet 

Radishes 

Salsify 

Squash 

Summer 

Winter 

Tomatoes 

Turnips 



Water 



94.0 

12.6 
68.5 
58.9 
89.2 
87.5 
88.2 
91.5 
88.2 
92.3 
94.5 
75.4 
95.4 
92.9 
92.5 

81.4 
94.7 
92.3 
92.3 
94.7 
94.7 
79.5 
91.1 
8.4 
88.1 
90.2 
87.6 
83.0 

9.5 
74.6 
92.9 

78.3 
69.0 
91.8 
88.2 

95.4 
88.3 
94.3 
89.6 



Protein 


Fat 


1.8 


.2 


22.5 


1.8 


7.1 


.7 


9.4 


.6 


2.3 


.3 


1.6 


.1 


4.7 


1.1 


1.6 


.3 


1.1 


.4 


1,8 


.5 


1.1 


.1 


3.1 


1.1 


.8 


.2 


1.2 


.3 


.8 


.2 


2.4 


1.0 


1.2 


.3 


2.1 


.3 


2.1 


.3 


1.2 


.3 


1.2 


.3 


2.6 


2.0 


2.0 


.1 


25.7 


1.0 


3.5 


.4 


1.6 


.2 


1.6 


.3 


1.6 


.5 


24.6 


1.0 


7.0 


.5 


1.2 


.3 


2.2 


.1 


1.8 


.7 


1.3 


.1 


1.1 


.4 


.8 


.2 


1.4 


.5 


.9 


.4 


1.3 


.2 



Carbohy- 
drate 



3.3 

59.6 

22.0 

29.1 

7.4 

9.7 

4.3 

5.6 

9.3 

4.7 

3,3 

19.7 

3.1 

5.1 

5.0 

10.6 
2.9 
3.2 
3.2 
2.9 
2.9 

16.7 
5.5 

59,2 
6,8 
7.4 
9.9 

13.5 

62.0 

16.9 

5.1 

18.4 

27,4 

58 

9.3 

3.1 
9,0 
3,9 
8.1 



Ash 



.7 

3.5 

1.7 

2.0 

.8 

1.1 

1.7 

1.0 

1.0 

.7 

1.0 

.7 

.5 

.5 

1.5 

4.6 

.9 

2.1 

2.1 

.9 

.9 

1,0 

1,3 

5.7 

1.2 

.6 

.6 

1.4 

2.9 
1.0 

.5 

1,0 
1,1 
1.0 
1.0 



Food Value 

per Pound 

Calories 



105 

1,750 
570 
740 
195 
215 
215 
145 
210 
140 

85 
470 

80 
130 
110 

285 

90 

110 

110 

90 

90 

365 

145 

1,620 

210 

175 

225 

300 

1,655 
465 
130 

385 
570 
135 
210 

80 
215 
105 
185 



the variation in tjieir food value, will be not only interesting but 
instructive. For instance, when the housewife realizes that lettuce 

w T r3_9 



10 VEGETABLES § 14 

and celery furnish only 85 to 90 calories to the pound, while diied 
beans and peas average more than 1,700 calories to the pound, she 
will understand better the place that these foods occupy in the 
dietary. 

PURCHASE AND CARE OF VEGETABLES 



PURCHASE OP VEGETABLES 

20. As in the case of other foods, the purchase of vegetables 
in the market requires special knowledge and attention in order that 
the best value may be obtained for the money expended. The house- 
wife who has a limited amount of money to spend for food does 
not buy wisely when she purchases vegetables out of season or those 
which must be shipped long distances. On the other hand, it will 
be found that vegetables bought in season as well as those which 
are plentiful in the particular locality in which they are sold, espe- 
cially if they are perishable vegetables, are lowest in price and are in 
the best condition for food. Therefore, whether the income is 
limited or not, it is wisdom on the part of the housewife to buy 
vegetables that grow in the neighboring region and to purchase them 
when they are in season. 

21. A very important point for the housewife to keep in mind 
regarding the purchase of vegetables is that their price is deter- 
mined not by their value as food, but by their scarcity and the 
demand for them. Take, for example, the case of mushrooms. As 
shown in Table I, this vegetable is low in food value, containing only 
210 calories to the pound, but, if purchased, they are always an 
expensive food. The high price asked for mushrooms is entirely 
dependent on their scarcity. If there is much demand in a certain 
community for a food that is not plentiful in the market, the price 
of that food always goes up. As in the case of mushrooms, many 
expensive foods add practically nothing in the way of nourishment, 
their only value being in the variety of flavor they supply. 

22. Furthermore, in order to provide wisely, the person who pur- 
chases vegetables for the family should be able to judge whether 
she is getting full value in food for the money she invests. She 
cannot always do this with each particular vegetable purchased, but 
she can buy in such a way that what she purchases will average 



§ li VEGETABLES 11 

correctly in this respect. The perishable vegetables should be bought 
as fresh as possible. No difficulty will be experienced in determin- 
ing this, for they will soon wither or rot if they are not fresh, but 
the point is to find out their condition before they are bought. The 
housewife should be ever on the alert and should examine carefully 
the vegetables she buys before they are accepted from the grocer or 
taken from the market. In the case of certain vegetables, it is pos- 
sible to conceal the fact that they are stale. For instance, the out- 
side leaves of a head of lettuce or endive are sometimes removed 
and only the bleached center is offered for sale ; but this always 
indicates that the outside leaves were either withered or spoiled or 
they would not have been taken off. 

23. Much of the spoiling of vegetables can be avoided if proper 
attention is given to them in the market. Food of this kind should 
be so displayed that it is not exposed to the dirt and dust of the 
street, nor to flies and other destructive vermin. The practice of 
displaying vegetables on a stand in front of a store is gradually 
losing favor with the housewife who understands the sanitary pre- 
cautions that should be taken with foods. On the other hand, 
housewives owe it to the merchant not to handle the foods they are 
going to buy, for the handling of them not only injures them so 
that they will not keep well, but renders them unfit to be accepted 
by the next purchaser. 

24. The manner in which vegetables are sold should also receive 
consideration. It has been the custom to sell them by measure, but 
both housewives and merchants have come to realize that it is fairer 
to sell them by weight. Experience has shown that a pound is much 
more likely to be always uniform than is a quart or a peck. This 
is due to the fact that no two dealers are likely to measure in exactly 
the same way, even though the measures they use are up to the 
standard in size. Then, too, especially in the case of vegetables that 
are of various sizes and shapes, it is impossible to fill a measure 
properly because of the shape of the vegetables, and so either the 
housewife often receives short measure or the merchant gives more 
than the measure requires. All difficulty of this kind is entirely 
overcome when vegetables are weighed. 



12 VEGETABLES § 14 

CARE OP TEGETABLES 

25. Perishable vegetables, that is, those which spoil quickly, 
are usually bought in small quantities and so are used up quickly. 
However, if they are kept on hand for only a day or so, they require 
a definite amount of care in order to insure the most satisfactory 
results in their use. To prevent them from spoiling or withering, 
they should be kept in a cool, damp place until they are needed. The 
most effective and convenient way in which to accomplish this is to 
store them in a refrigerator or other similar device. If ice cannot 
be obtained, the cellar should be utilized. Before vegetables of this 
kind are put away after being delivered from the market, they should 
be looked over carefully, and any that are spoiled should be dis- 
carded in order to prevent others that they might touch from becom- 
ing tainted. As little handling as possible, however, is advantageous, 
because when such foods become bruised and are then allowed to 
stand they are likely to spoil very quickly. 

26. The less perishable vegetables, commonly called winter 
vegetables because they may be kept through the winter, may be 
bought in quantity, provided proper storage facilities to prevent 
them from spoiling are available. Potatoes, in particular, are usually 
purchased in this way, for, as a rule, they may be obtained at a better 
price than when bought in small quantities, and then, too, they are 
a vegetable that most families use nearly every day. If they are 
bought in quantity, they should first be thoroughly tested, for often 
a potato looks very well on the outside while its texture and flavor 
may not be at all in accordance with its appearance. Great care 
should also be exercised to see that this vegetable, as well as carrots, 
turnips, parsnips, etc., has not been frosted, for frost ruins them as 
to texture and keeping qualities. 

All such vegetables as these, provided they must be stored for 
any length of time, keep best in a cold, fairly dry atmosphere. To 
prevent them from sprouting, the storage room should, if possible, 
be kept dark, but in case they do sprout, the sprouts should be 
removed as soon as they are discovered. The best receptacles for 
the storage of these winter vegetables are bins, a convenient type 
of which is shown in Essentials of Cookery, Part 2, and the most 
satisfactory place in which to put such bins is a cellar that has a 
dirt floor rather than a board or a cement floor. 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



13 



CLASSIFICATION OF VEGETABLES 

27. Because of their difference in physical structure, both as 
plants or parts of plants, and their variation in chemical composi- 
tion, it is a rather difficult matter to classify vegetables. The vege- 
tables that are discussed throughout these Sections are therefore not 
included in any classes, but are arranged alphabetically, a plan that 
the housewife will find very convenient. However, there are a few 
general classes whose names and characteristics should be known 
by the housewife, for an understanding of them will enable her to 
make a more intelligent use of this food. These classes, together 
with a brief description of the features that characterize them and 
the names by which the principal varieties are known, are here 
given. 

28. Succulent vegetables are those which are generally 
eaten for their appetizing effect and their value as a source of 




Fig- 1 

mineral salts and bulk. These vegetables, which get their name 
from the fact that they are juicy in texture, include the greens, such 
as spinach, Swiss chard, dandelion, lettuce, etc., also celery, aspar- 
agus, cabbage, and all other plants whose green leaves and stems are 
edible. Succulent vegetables may be cooked, but they are often used 
as cold relishes or in the making of salads. 

29. Root, tuber, and bulb vegetables form another class. 
Examples of several well-known roots are shown in Fig. 1, which 
from left to right are salsify, carrots, turnips, and parsnips. The 
varieties included in this class are closely related as to food value. 



14 VEGETABLES § 14 

and on the whole average much higher in this characteristic than 
do the succulent vegetables. Irish potatoes and Jerusalem artichokes 
are examples of tubers; sweet potatoes, beets, radishes, etc., in 
addition to the vegetables shown in Fig. 1, belong to the roots; and 
onions and all the vegetables related to the onion, such as garlic, 
shallots, and leeks, are illustrations of bulbs or enlarged underground 
stems. 

30. Fruit and flower vegetaWes form a third class. They 
present great variety in appearance, structure, and composition. To 
this class belong cucumbers, eggplant, winter and summer squash, 
vegetable marrow, tomatoes, peppers, and okra, which are in reality 
fruits but are used as vegetables. Flower vegetables include Cali- 
fornia, or French, artichokes, and cauliflower, all of which are in 
reality the buds of flowers or plants and are eaten for food. 

31. Legumes form a fourth class of vegetables, and they 
include all the varieties of beans, peas, and lentils. When these 
foods are mature and dried, they have the highest food value of all 
the vegetables. Among the beans are Lima beans, kidney beans, 
navy, or soup, beans, soy beans, and many others. The peas include 
the various garden varieties that have been allowed to mature, cow- 
peas, and many others, some of which are not suitable for human 
consumption. The lentils occur in numerous varieties, too, but those 
commonly used are the red, yellow, and black ones. To legumes 
also belong peanuts, but as they are seldom used as vegetables in 
cookery, no further mention is made of them in this Section. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 15 



VARIETIES OF VEGETABLES AND THEIR 
PREPARATION 



GENERAL METHODS OF PREPARATION AND 
COOKING 

32. Preparing- Vegetables for Cooking. — Before many 
vegetables can be cooked, they require a certain amount of prepara- 
tion, such as washing, soaI<ing, peeling, cutting up into suitable 
sizes, etc. When they must be peeled, great care should be taken 
not to remove too much of the vegetable with the skin. Whenever 
it is possible to do so, vegetables should be cooked in their skins, as 
there is much less waste of edible material if the skins are removed 
after cooking. Potatoes that are to be fried, hashed brown, oi 
used for salad and other similar dishes may be boiled in theii- 
skins and peeled afterwards just as conveniently as to be peeled first 
and then boiled. Indeed, this plan is strongly recommended, for it 
not only saves material that is removed in the peeling but also con^ 
serves the mineral salts and the soluble food material, much of which 
is lost in the water during the cooking. 

33. If it is desired to remove the peeling before cooking, it will 
oe found more economical to put the vegetables in water and then 
scrape off the skins than to cut them off with a knife. This method 
is especially satisfactory with new potatoes and with such vegetables 
as carrots, parsnips, salsify, and turnips. The scraping can be 
accomplished more easily if the vegetables are first plunged into 
boiling water for a few minutes and then dipped into cold water. 

When entire heads of such vegetables as cabbage, cauliflower, 
Brussels sprouts, etc. are to be cooked, they should be soaked, head 
down, for at least i hour in salted water made by adding 1 teaspoon- 
f ul of salt to 1 quart of water. This is done in order to remove any 
bugs or worms that may be lodged in the head. The correct pro- 
portion of salt is an important detail of this process, for if salt 
water that is too strong is used, it will kill the bugs or worms and 
they will remain in the head. 



16 VEGETABLES § 14 

34. Methods of Cooking Applied to Vegetables. — The 

usual methods of cooking applied to vegetables are boiling, steam- 
ing, baking, stewing, frying, sauteing, broiling, and roasting. Which 
one of these to select depends, of course, on the particular kind of 
vegetable that is to be cooked and the result that is desired, but, if 
possible, an effort should be made to select an economical method. 
Starchy vegetables, such as Irish and sweet potatoes, beans, etc., 
develop a more delicious flavor when they are baked than when they 
are cooked by any other method of preparation. Steaming is an 
excellent means of preparing vegetables that must be cooked by 
moist heat, especially when it is desired that no soluble material be 
lost, as is often the case in boiling. Frying and sauteing, when 
applied to vegetables, usually produce a delicious flavor, but often 
render the vegetables decidedly indigestible. For this reason, vege- 
tables so prepared should seldom if ever be served to children and 
to persons whose digestion is not good. 

35. Effect of Cooking on Vegetables. — The various ways 
in which cooking affects vegetables should be thoroughly understood 
by the housewife. In the first place, some methods conserve the 
food material whereas others waste it. For instance, boiling in 
water, which is probably one of the most common ways of cooking 
vegetables, is decidedly advantageous in some respects, but the water 
dissolves much of the soluble material, such as mineral salts, sugar, 
etc., found in the vegetables, so that unless some use is made of this 
water in the cooking of other foods, considerable waste results. On 
the other hand, steaming and baking permit no loss of food material, 
and so they should be applied to vegetables whenever it is desired 
to conserve food substances. 

36. The flavors of vegetables are greatly changed during the 
process of cooking, being increased in some cases and decreased in 
others. In the case of such strongly flavored vegetables as cabbage, 
cauliflower, onions, etc., it is advisable to dissipate part of the flavor. 
Therefore such vegetables should be cooked in an open vessel in 
order that the flavor may be decreased by evaporation. Vegetables 
mild in flavor, however, are improved by being cooked in a closed 
vessel, for all their flavor should be retained. The overcooking of 
vegetables is sometimes responsible for an increase of a disagreeable 
flavor. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 17 

37. Another feature of vegetables often changed by cooking is 
their color. For instance, green vegetables do not, upon cooking, 
always remain green. In many cases, the color may be improved 
by adding a very small quantity of soda to the water in which the 
vegetables are cooked. Attention should also be given to the length 
of time vegetables are subjected to heat, for the overboiling of some 
vegetables is liable to develop an unattractive color in them. This 
is particularly the case with cabbage, cauliflower, and Brussels 
sprouts, which deyelop not only a strong, disagreeable flavor but 
also a reddish color when cooked too long. 

38. The application of heat to vegetables also has a definite 
effect on them. By sufficient cooking, the cellulose of vegetables is 
softened to the extent that it is less irritating and much more likely 
to be partly digested than that of raw vegetables. The acids of 
fruits increase upon cooking, and so the acidity of vegetables is 
increased to a certain extent. Vegetables that contain starch are 
rendered digestible in no other way than by cooking. On the other 
hand, the protein material of this food is coagulated by the applica- 
tion of heat, just as the white of an egg or the tissue of meat is 
coagulated and hardened. However, cooking is the only means of 
softening the cellulose that surrounds this material. 

Still, high-protein foods, such as beans, peas, and lentils, can be 
much improved if they are cooked in water that is not very hard. 
The lime in hard water has a tendency to harden them to the extent 
that they require a much longer time to cook than when soft water 
is used. These vegetables may be still further softened by the addi- 
tion of a small quantity of soda to the water in which they are 
cooked, but care should be taken not to use too much soda, as it will 
injure the flavor. When soda is used, the vegetable should be par- 
boiled for 10 or 15 minutes in the soda water and then drained and 
cooked in fresh water. This method, of course, does not apply to 
vegetables that are cooked in soda water to retain their color. 

39. Salt is always added in the cooking of vegetables to season 
them. In the use of salt, two important points must be borne in 
mind: first, that it has the effect of hardening the tissues of the 
vegetable in much the same manner as it hardens the tissues of meat ; 
and, secondly, that it helps to draw out the flavor of the vegetables. 
These two facts determine largely the time for adding the salt. If 
an old, tough, winter vegetable is to be prepared, it should be cooked 



IS VEGETABLES § 14 

until nearly soft in water that contains no salt, and the salt should 
be added just before the cooking is finished. When it is desired to 
draw out the flavor, as, for instance, when vegetables are cooked 
for soup or stews, the salt should be supplied when the vegetables 
are put on to cook. Young tender vegetables may be cooked in salt 
water, but as such water extracts a certain amount of flavor, an 
effort should be made to use it in the preparation of stews, sauces, 
and soups. 



SAUCES FOR VEGETABLES 

40. Vegetables may, of course, be served plain, but they are 
greatly improved in flavor, nutritive value, and often in appear- 
ance by the addition of a well-seasoned sauce. Numerous sauces 
are used for this purpose, the one to select depending somewhat on 
the vegetable, the method of cooking employed, and the flavor that 
is desired. Recipes for the sauces found to be most satisfactory are 
here given. It will be well to practice the making of these, so as to 
become familiar with them and thus know just what sauce is meant 
when reference is made to a particular sauce in the recipes for vege- 
tables. The quantities given in the recipes for sauces will make 
sufficient sauce to dress the vegetables required for four to six per- 
sons. White sauce, which is probably the one that is used oftenest, 
rnay be made in various thicknesses, as has been explained previously. 
However, the medium white sauce has been found to be the one 
most nearly correct for vegetables and consequently the one most 
preferred. 

Medium White Sauce 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. milk 

^ tsp. salt 

Melt the butter and add the flour, salt, and pepper. Pour into 
this the milk, which has been previously heated, and cook together 
until the flour thickens completely. Pour over the vegetable, from 
which the water has been previously drained, and serve. 

Vegetable Sauce 

2 Tb. butter i c. milk 

2 Tb. flour i c. water in which vegetable 

i tsp. salt. was cooked 

Dash of pepper 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 19 

Melt the butter, add the flour, salt, and pepper, and pour into this 
the heated liquids. Cook until the mixture thickens. Pour over the 
drained vegetable and serve hot. 

Drawn-Butter Sauce 
4 c. butter Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. hot water 

I tsp. salt 
Melt the butter, add the flour, salt, and pepper, and pour into this 
the hot water. Boil for a few minutes and serve. 

HOLLANDAISE SaUCE 

i c. butter -J c. boiling water 

1 Tb. flour 1 egg yolk 

^ tsp. salt 2 Tb. vinegar or lemon juice 

Melt the butter, add the flour, salt, and water, and cook until the 
mixture thickens. While still hot, pour over the slightly beaten egg 
yolk, beating constantly to prevent curding. Add the vinegar or 
lemon juice. Serve with vegetables that have been boiled in salt 
water. 

Sour-Cream Dressing 
2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour I c. milk or sweet cream 

■| tsp. salt i c. vinegar 

Melt the butter and add the flour, salt, and pepper. Pour into 
this the heated milk or cream, and allow the sauce to thicken. Then 
add the vinegar, stirring rapidly, and serve hot. 

Tomato Sauce 
li c. stewed tomatoes 2 Tb. flour 

1 slice onion ^ tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

Heat the tomatoes with the onion and force through a sieve. Melt 
the butter, add the flour, salt, pepper, and the strained tomatoes. 
Cook together until thick, remove, and serve hot with a vegetable. 
Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 
^ c. butter i tsp. salt 

1 Tb. chopped parsley Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. lemon juice 

Melt the butter and add the chopped parsley, lemon juice, salt, 
and pepper. Mix well, and allow the whole to boil, but not to 
brown. Pour over the vegetable and serve. 
Parsley-Butter Sauce 

4 c. butter i tsp. salt 

1 Tb. chopped parsley Dash of pepper 



20 VEGETABLES § U 

Heat the butter in a saucepan until it is well browned, and then add 
the parsley, salt, and pepper. Allow the sauce to become hot, but not 
to boil. This is an excellent sauce to use over new potatoes or diced 
vegetables, such as turnips or carrots. 



ASPARAGUS AND ITS PREPARATION 

41. Asparagus is a vegetable that consists of the shoots of 
the plant, which are eaten before the blossoms develop. It grows 
quickly and is very tender if the shoots are clipped at just the right 
time after they appear above the ground. It comes early in the 
spring, being about the first green vegetable that gets into the local 
market, but its season is comparatively short. It does not keep long 
after it is purchased and is better when it is used at once. If 
asparagus must be kept for any length of time, it should be stored 
in a cool, damp place. 

42. In selecting asparagus, it should be remembered that there 
are two varieties, one of which is green and the other white. The 
stems of the green asparagus should be green to the bottom, and 
should not be hard nor woody where they are cut from the plant. 
However, if a part of the stems is found to be woody, the hard eqds 
should not be rejected, for the outside may be peeled off and the 
center used, or the hard ends may be cooked with other vegetables 
for the making of soup. The white asparagus will have slightly 
green tips, while the rest of the stem will be white. 

Asparagus is one of the succulent vegetables comparatively low 
in food value. It contains, as Table I shows, only one-fourth as 
many calories to the pound as potatoes. Its food value, however, 
may be increased by dressing it with butter after the vegetable has 
been cooked or by serving with it a sauce made with milk, butter, 
flour, etc. Then, too, asparagus is sometimes served on toast, which 
is another means of making a more nutritious dish out of this 
vegetable. 

In its composition, asparagus contains a diuretic, that is, a sub- 
stance that has an effect upon the kidneys, and that is known as 
asparagine. Because of the presence of this substance, asparagus is 
thought to be injurious to those who have kidney trouble, but it 
need not be avoided except in some forms of this disease. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 21 

43. Preparation for Cooking. — To prepare asparagus for 
cooking, strip the tiny scales from the sides of the stems by means 
of a small paring knife. These hold sand and are responsible for 
the presence of the grit that is sometimes found in a cooked dish 
of asparagus even when the housewife feels certain that she has 
washed it as clean as possible. Then wash the stems thoroughly in 
several cold waters, lifting them out of the water after each washing 
instead of pouring the water off of them. If the water is poured 
off the stems, the sand that has been washed from them is likely to 
remain in the bottom of the pan and mix with the vegetable again. 

When the asparagus has been sufficiently washed, it may be used 
in the full lengths or cut into pieces of any desired length, 1 inch being 
the size that is usually preferred. If stems are to be cooked whole, 
it is a good plan to form them into a bunch as when purchased and 
tie the bunch with a tape or a string. When this is done, the string 
should, of course, be cut and removed before the asparagus is served. 
A point to remember about the preparation of this vegetable is that 
it should always be cooked in boiling salted water. 

44. Asparagus With. Butter Dressing. — Perhaps the 
simplest way in which to prepare asparagus is to cook it in salted 
water and then serve it with a butter dressing. When prepared in 
this way, it may be served plain, but it becomes more attractive, as 
well as more nutritious, if it is placed on squares of toast. 

For this dish, secure a bunch of fresh, tender asparagus, wash it 
thoroughly, and then, as desired, cut it into inch lengths or allow 
it to remain whole. Pour enough boiling water over it to cover well, 
add salt in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful to each quart of water, 
and allow it to cook until the stems may be easily pierced with a 
fork, which in most cases will require not more than from 10 to 15 
minutes. The lei^th of the cooking is an important factor with this 
vegetable, for when it is overcooked its flavor is not so agreeable 
as when it has had just enough cooking. When the asparagus is 
done, drain off the water, season with a little more salt and a dash 
of pepper, and, if it is to be served without toast, add 1 tablespoonf ul 
of butter for each bunch cooked, allowing the butter to melt. In 
case it is to be served on toast, allow a small amount of the liquid 
in which- it was cooked to remain on it, add the butter to this, and, 
after placing several of the stems or a number of the pieces on the 
squares of toast, dip a little of the liquid over all. 



22 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



45. Creamed Asparagus on Toast. — ^A still more nutritious 
dish can be prepared from asparagus .by combining it with a cream 
sauce and serving it on toast. The sauce supplies protein and fat 
and the toast furnishes carbohydrate, substances in which this vege- 
table is low. Numerous ways of serving this combination may be 
resorted to, but one of the most attractive methods is illustrated in 
Fig. 2. As here shown, a small bunch of the stems is slipped 
through a ring of toast cut by means of round cutters of two sizes. 
If it is not desired to use toast for this, a ring of lemon rind or 
pimiento may be substituted, or the ring may be omitted altogether 
and the stems merely laid in an orderly manner on a square of toast. 
Also, with this dish, as with the previous one, the asparagus may be 
cut into inch lengths instead of being cooked whole. 

To prepare creamed asparagus, clean it in the manner explained 
in Art. 43. Then either cut it into inch lengths or allow the stems 

to remain whole, and cook 
it in enough boiling salted 
water to cover it well. 
While the asparagus is 
cooking, prepare a medi- 
um white sauce. As soon 
as the asparagus has 
cooked enough to be 
pierced with a fork, pour 
off the water and serve 
with the sauce in any of 
the ways already suggested. If the asparagus is left whole, the 
sauce is poured over it after it is placed on the toast, but when it 
is cut into small pieces, it is usually combined with the sauce and 
the creamed vegetable then poured over the toast. 

46. Scalloped Asparagus. — Another nutritious dish with 
asparagus as its base is scalloped asparagus. This involves all the 
ingredients used in creamed asparagus, but to give it still more food 
value, cheese is also added. 

Scalloped Asparagus 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 bunch asparagus i c. milk 

2 Tb. butter | tsp. salt 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. buttered cracker crumb.c 

1 c. asparagus stock i c. grated cheese 




Fig. 2 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 23 

Clean the asparagus according to the directions given in Art. 43. 
Cut it into inch lengths and cook in boiling salted water until it is 
tender enough to be pierced with a fork, and then drain. Prepare 
a sauce by melting the butter, adding the flour, and pouring into 
this mixture the heated stock and milk seasoned with the salt. Put 
a layer of the buttered crumbs in the bottom of a baking dish, and 
pour half the asparagus over them. Sprinkle the asparagus with 
one-third the cheese and add another layer of crumbs. Sprinkle 
this with one-third the cheese. Add the remainder of the asparagus 
and the crumbs and sprinkle the rest of the cheese on top. Pour the 
sauce over the entire mixture, place in the oven, and bake until 
heated thoroughly and the top is slightly browned. Serve from the 
baking dish. 

BEANS AND THEIR PREPARATION 



VARIETIES OF BEANS 

47. Of all the vegetables commonly used for food, beans 
afiford the greatest variety. However, there are two principal classes 
into which all varieties of this vegetable can be placed, namely, 
string beans and shell beans. String beans include both the pods 
and the seeds, and are used when the beans are very young. Shell 
beans consist of the seeds, which are allowed to mature either partly 
or entirely and are taken from the shells before cooking. Those 
which are partly developed are cooked when they are fresh, but the 
ones that are allowed to mature completely are dried and then stored 
for use at any time during the year. In some cases, the same 
variety of beans may be used in the three ways mentioned, while in 
others certain kinds are raised expressly for one of these purposes. 

48. The food value of beans increases as they mature, as will 
be observed upon reference to Table I. The very young beans, that 
is, the string beans, which include the pods and all, are comparatively 
low in food value, being only a little higher than asparagus. To 
increase the food value of these, fat meat, butter, or other fat is 
supplied in their cooking, or milk or a cream sauce is added before 
they are served. Fresh shell beans have much more nutriment than 
string beans, whereas dried beans are very high in food value. It 
is this characteristic of dried shell beans that makes them a very 
good meat substitute. 



24 VEGETABLES § 14= 



STRING BEANS 

49. Varieties of String Beans. — ^There are two general 

varieties of string beans: the yellow ones, which are commonly 
known as wax beans, and the green ones, which are the ones usually 
meant when the term string beans is used. Numerous varieties 
exist among these classes, and some are very much better than 
others. Many of them have strings, but others are stringless 
and consequently are easier to prepare. Whatever kind is used 
should be picked from the vines before the beans are old enough 
for the pods to develop woody fibers. Otherwise they will not be 
palatable, for when they have reached this stage it will be impossible 
to cook them soft. 

50. Selection and Care. — Small, round, rusty-looking spots 
are common to both string and wax beans ; but when such spots are 
present they must be removed before cooking. As there is consider- 
able waste in the preparation of such beans for the table, it is wise 
in buying string beans to select those whose surface is not marred 
with such blemishes. In addition, the beans should be as fresh as 
can be obtained and crisp and tender enough to snap when the pods 
are bent in half. Proper attention should be given to them after 
they are purchased, too. If possible, they should be cooked imme- 
diately, but if this cannot be done they should be kept in a cool, 
damp place to prevent them from becoming limp. However, if they 
wilt before they can be cooked, they may be freshened by allowing 
them to stand in cold water for a short time. 

51. Preparation and Cooking. — To prepare beans for cook- 
ing, wash them thoroughly in cold water. If the beans are of the 
stringless variety, cut off the stem and blossom ends; but, in case 
they have strings, break the ends and strip off the strings together 
with the ends, as shown in Fig. 3. The beans may then be cooked 
whole or cut into inch lengths before cooking. If it is desired to cut 
them, the most convenient way is to place them in an orderly heap 
on a cutting board and then cut a handful at a time, drawing a sharp 
knife across them as they are held on the board. Any imperfect 
portions should be removed before cutting. 

52. The cooking of string beans is similar to that of asparagus, 
except that they require longer cooking. Put them, either whole or 
cut. into a kettle, cover them with boiling water to which has been 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



25 



added 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water, and cook them 
with the cover on the kettle until they can be easily pierced with a 
fork. The length of time required to cook them depends on the 
age of the beans, but usually from 30 minutes to 1 hour will be 
sufficient. When they are done, drain the water from them, but 
save it to make sauce for them or to add to soup stock. 

53. String Beans in Butter. — String beans, which, of course, 
include wax beans, may be served with a sauce of some kind, but 
they are very appetizing when merely drained after cooking and 
served with melted butter. 

To prepare beans in this manner, wash the desired amount, remove 
the ends and strings, if necessary, and cut into inch lengths. Cook 
until they are tender and then pour off the water. Add 1 table- 
spoonful of butter for 
each four persons to be 
served, a dash of pepper, 
and, if they are not salty 
enough, a little more 
salt. Allow the butter 
to melt and serve the 
beans hot. 

54. String Beans 
With Salt Pork. 

Those who like the 

flavor of salt pork will 

find string beans cooked 

with a small piece of 

this meat very appetizing. Besides improving the flavor, salt 

pork supplies the beans with fat, a food substance in which they are 

very low. 

After washing the beans that are to be cooked in this way, 
remove the ends and strings, but do not cut into inch lengths. Put 
the whole beans to cook in boiling water and add i pound of pork 
for a sufficient amount of beans for four persons. Cook until the 
beans are tender, and serve with the pork without removing from 
the liquid. 

55. Creamed String Beans. — Perhaps the most popular way 
in which to prepare string or wax beans is to cream them. Not 
only an appetizing dish, but one whose food value is increased, is 

W I— C 2-10 




Fig. 3 



26 VEGETABLES § U 

the result. The cream sauce served with the beans may be made 
entirely of milk, but a very satisfactory sauce can be made by using 
half milk or cream and half liquid in which the beans were cooked. 
To prepare creamed beans, clean the beans in the usual way and cut 
them into inch lengths. Put them to cook in boiling salted water and 
cook until they may be easily pierced with a fork. Pour off the 
water, but keep it to use in the dressing. To dress a sufficient quan- 
tity of beans for four persons, a sauce should be made as follows: 
Sauce for Creamed String Beans 

1 Tb. butter Pinch of pepper 

1 Tb. flour i c. rich milk or cream 

i tsp. salt i c. liquid from beans 

Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the flour, salt, and pepper. 
Pour in the heated liquids and stir until the mixture is smooth and 
thoroughly cooked. Add the sauce to the beans, heat together, and 
serve. 

56. String Beans With. Sour Dressing. — A dish having an 
entirely different flavor from those already explained is produced 
when beans are served with a sour dressing. 

To prepare beans in this way, clean a sufficient number according 
to the directions already given and cut them into inch lengths. 
Cook them in boiling salted water until they are tender. Pour off 
the water, but retain ^ cupful for the dressing. Make the following 
sauce, which will dress a sufficient quantity of beans for four 
persons : 

Sour Dressing 

2 Tb. ham or bacon fat i c. vinegar 

1 Tb. flour I c. liquid from beans 

Melt the fat in a double boiler, add the flour, and into this stir 
the vinegar and the liquid from the beans. Cook until the mixture 
thickens and pour over the beans. Reheat and serve. 



SHDLIi BBANS 

57. Varieties and Food Value of Shell Beans. — When 
beans have matured on the vines to such an extent that the pods are 
no longer tender enough for human consumption, they are picked 
and the seeds then used for food. Some are picked before the seeds 
have entirely matured, and these, which must be young enough to 
contain considerable moisture, are cooked fresh ; others are allowed 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 27 

to mature entirely and are then dried before they are cooked. 
After being dried, beans keep indefinitely and require no care in 
storage except that they must not become moist. Numerous varie- 
ties of both fresh and dried shell beans are in use, including navy, 
marrowfat, pinto, and Lima beans. 

58. Fresh shell beans average about three times as much food 
value as string or wax beans. Most of this is carbohydrate in the 
form of starch, but they also contain considerable protein. Dried 
shell beans, which are entirely different in flavor and texture from 
fresh ones, contain still more nutriment, their food value being more 
than twice that of fresh shell beans and over four times that of 
potatoes. In the entirely matured bean, which, as has already been 
mentioned, belongs to the class of vegetables called legumes, the 
high food value is due to the high percentage of starch and the large 
amount of protein in the form of legumin, a substance that is 
an important substitute for other more expensive protein foods. 
This composition reveals at once the fact that dried shell beans make 
an excellent food, provided some fat is added to them in their 
preparation. 

59. Preparation and Cooking' of Fresh. SlieU Beans. 

With the exception of Lima beans, most of the varieties of fresh 
shell beans are placed on the market in the pods and must be shelled 
after they are purchased. Green Lima beans, however, are usually 
sold shelled. If the beans are purchased in the pods, wash them in 
cold water before shelling, but if they are bought shelled, wash the 
shelled beans. Then put them to cook in sufficient boiling water to 
which has been added 1 teaspoonful of salt for each quart. Allow 
the beans to cook until they may be easily pierced with a fork. The 
cooking will probably require from 45 minutes to 1| hours, depend- 
ing on the age and variety of the beans. 

60. Shell Beans Dressed "Witli Butter. — Any variety of 
fresh shell beans may be prepared according to the accompanying 
recipe, but Lima beans are especially delicious when cooked in this 
way. 

Prepare and cook the beans as directed in Art. 59. When they 
are sufficiently cooked, pour off the water, season with additional 
salt, if necessary, and a dash of pepper, and add 1 tablespoonful of 
butter for each four persons to be served. Allow the butter to 
melt and serve the beans hot. 



28 VEGETABLES § U 

61. Shell Beans in Cream. — Fresh shell beans are especially 
appetizing when they are dressed with cream. Besides improving 
the flavor, cream also adds considerable food value, an item that 
should not be overlooked. 

For this dish, prepare and cook the beans in the manner explained 
in Art. 59. When they are tender, pour off the water and season 
with additional salt and pepper. Then for each four persons to be 
served, add 1 tablespoonful of butter and i cupful of thin cream. 
Heat the beans well in the cream and serve. 

62. Bean Purfie.' — Persons with whom the coarse skins that 
must necessarily be eaten with beans disagree, find bean puree very 
satisfactory. To prepare it, clean and cook the beans in boiling 
salted water according to the directions given in Art. 59. Then 
pour off the water and force the beans through a ricer or a sieve. 
Add sufficient butter, salt, and pepper to season well and serve hot. 

63. Cooking of Dried Shell Beans. — Before dried shell 
beans of any variety are cooked, look them over very carefully, reject 
any that are unfit for use, and wash the rest in cold water. They 
may then be cooked without further preparation, but in order to 
hasten their cooking and save fuel in their preparation, it is a good 
plan to moisten them by soaking them in water before cooking. If 
they are to be soaked, place them in cold water and allow them to 
remain there for 8 to 12 hours. Then put them on to cook in 
water to which has been added a small pinch of soda. Parboil the 
beans in this water until the outside skin begins to crack and then 
pour off the water. While it is true that a certain amount of 
mineral salts and perhaps a small percentage of food value are lost 
in this procedure, because the water that is poured off is too strong 
to be used for any other purpose, the improvement in the flavor 
warrants any loss that might occur. After pouring off the water, 
wash the beans in cold water, add fresh water to continue the cook- 
ing, and allow the beans to simmer slowly until they are cooked soft 
enough to crush between the fingers, but still retain their original 
shape. Nothing is gained by cooking them rapidly on a hot fire, and 
considerable fuel is wasted by this practice. 

The fireless cooker and the double boiler are excellent utensils for 
the cooking of dried beans, because they cook the beans at a temper- 
ature below boiling point. They therefore cook the beans soft with 
little difficulty and prevent the protein from becoming hard. The 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 29 

theory of the cooking of protein — ^that is, the higher the temper- 
ature, the harder the coagulation — applies in the cooking of dried 
beans, just as it does in the cooking of eggs or milk. 

64. Stewed. Navy Beans. — The common small white beans 
are called navy beans from the fact that they are much used in the 
navy. These may be prepared in various vi^ays, but the simplest 
method is to stew them. In the preparation of this dish, as well as 
any other made from dried beans, it will be well to remember that 
i cupful of beans is usually sufficient to serve four persons when 
they are cooked. 

Look over the required amount of beans, reject any that are 
imperfect, wash thoroughly, and put to soak overnight in cold 
water. Pour off any water that remains, cover well with boiling 
water, and add a pinch of soda. Cook slowly until the skins begin 
to burst. Pour off the water, add fresh hot water and 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt for each quart of water, and allow to simmer until 
the beans may be easily crushed between the fingers. During this 
process, the water should cook down until just a sufficient amount 
to serve with the beans remains. When this is accomplished, add 
1^ tablespoonfuls of butter, a dash of pepper, and, if necessary, 
additional salt. Instead of the butter, ham or bacon fat may be 
used for seasoning, or a small piece of ham or salt pork may be 
cooked with the beans and the fat omitted. Serve the beans hot. 

65. Lima Beans in Cream. — Dried Lima beans, when com- 
bined with thin cream, make a very appetizing dish. To prepare 
them in this way, clean, soak, and cook them as explained in 
Art. 63. When they are soft enough to crush easily between the 
fingers and the water has boiled down so that practically none 
remains, add -J cupful of thin cream to a sufficient quantity for four 
persons. Allow the beans to simmer for a short time in the cream, 
add additional salt and a dash of pepper for flavoring, and serve. 

66. Lima Beans en Casserole. — ^While the small varieties 
of dried beans are more commonly baked than the larger ones, Lima 
beans will be found especially delicious when prepared in a casserole. 

Lima Beans en Casserole 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

I c. dried Lima beans 2 tsp. salt 
i c. ham or bacon fat i tsp. pepper 

2 c. milk 



30 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



Soak the beans overnight and then parboil them in soda water. 
Drain off the water and turn the beans into a baking dish. Add the 
fat, milk, salt, and pepper. Cover the dish and bake until the beans 
are soft. Serve hot from the casserole. 

67. Lima-Bean Loaf. — If a dish that is not only appetizing, 
but sufficient in food value to be used as a meat substitute, is 




Fig. 4 

desired, Lima-bean loaf, which is illustrated in Fig. 4, should be 
selected. This is very good when served alone, but it becomes more 
attractive and at the same time more palatable when a sauce or gravy 
is added. 

Lima-Bean Loaf 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. dried Lima beans 1 tsp. salt 

2 c. bread crumbs ^ tsp. pepper 
Milk to moisten crumbs -J tsp. celery salt 
2 eggs 2 Tb. butter 

Soak the beans overnight and parboil them in soda water. Pour 
off this water, cook until tender in boiling salted water, and then 
drain. Moisten the bread crumbs slightly with milk, mix them with 
the beans, and add the beaten eggs and seasoning. When the entire 
mixture is well blended, place in a loaf pan, dot the top with the 
butter, and bake in the oven until nicely browned and quite firm. 
Turn out on a platter, garnish with parsley, and serve by cutting it 
into slices, as shown in Fig. 4. 

68. Bean Souffle. — Probably the daintiest dish that can be 
made from dried beans is bean souffle. This is equally suitable as the 
main dish for a luncheon or a home dinner. One point to remember 
about it is that it should be served immediately, for souffle usually 
settles when taken from the oven. 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



31 



Bean Souffl^; 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. bean pUlp ^ tsp. celery salt 

1 tsp. salt 1 Tb. onion juice 

i tsp. pepper 2 eggs 

Make the bean pulp by forcing well-cooked beans through a 
colander or a press. Add all the seasoning and the beaten egg yolks. 
Beat the egg whites stiff and fold them into the mixture. When well 
blended, pour into a greased baking dish, or individual dishes, place 
in a pan containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until the 
souffle is set, which will require from 30 to 45 minutes. Test by 
tapping slightly with the finger. If the dent thus made in the 
souffle springs back, it is sufficiently baked. Remove from the oven 
and serve at once. 



69. Baked Beans. — Almost any kind of dried beans may be 
used for baking. Some persons prefer the small navy beans, which 




Fig. 5 

are mentioned in this recipe, whereas others like the larger marrowfat 
beans or Lima beans. Pinto beans have for some time been taking 
the place of navy beans, and are found to be a very good substitute. 
To bake beans successfully, a dish with a tight-fitting cover, such 
as the one shown in Fig. 5, is required. This is made of heavy 
glass, but if such a utensil is not available, very satisfactory results 
can be obtained by using a heavy earthen bowl, crock, or baking 
■dish. To produce the delicious flavor that is agreeable to most per- 
sons, beans should be baked a long time. Therefore, as considerable 
heat is consumed in their cooking, it is a wise plan to prepare more 



32 VEGETABLES § 14= 

than enough for one meal. They may be served the second time as 
baked beans, or, if this is not desired, they may be used for various 
other purposes. 

Baked Beans 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. navy beans 2 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. molasses ^ lb. bacon or salt pork 

Soak the beans overnight, parboil in soda water, and drain. Add 
a sufficient amount of water to cover the beans well, cook until they 
break open, and then pour with the liquid into a baking dish. If 
this liquid does not almost cover the beans, add more until it comes 
nearly to the top. Add the molasses and salt, cut the salt pork into 
pieces, and distribute these well through the beans, placing a piece 
or two over the top. The beans should then appear as shown in 
Fig. 5. Place the cover on the dish and bake in a slow oven for 
4 or 5 hours. Remove the cover occasionally, stir the beans care- 
fully so as not to crush nor break them, and add enough water from 
time to time to keep the beans well moistened. When done, the 
beans should be light brown in color, but the top should be well 
browned. Sometimes it will be found necessary to remove the cover 
in order to brown the beans sufficiently. 

70. Bean Croquettes. — Left-over baked beans need never be 
wasted, for there are numerous uses to which they can be put. If 
it is not desired to reheat them and serve them again as baked beans, 
they may be utilized in soup, salads, and sandwiches, or they may be 
made into souffle, as explained in Art. 68, or into croquettes 
according to the accompanying recipe. Bean croquettes may be 
served plain, but they are much improved by the addition of tomato 
sauce. 

Bean Croquettes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. cold baked beans 1 egg 

1 J c. bread crumbs 1 tsp. salt 

Milk to moisten crumbs Pinch of pepper 

To the beans add the bread crumbs slightly moistened with milk. 
Stir in the egg, beaten, and the salt and pepper. Blend the entire 
mixture, form into croquettes, and roll in dry crumbs. Bake in the 
oven until brown, saute in shallow fat, or fry in deep fat. Place on 
a platter, garnish with parsley, and serve plain or with tomato sauce. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 33 



BEETS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

71. Beets are a root vegetable that comes in two varieties, red 
and white. The red beets are more popular for cooking than the 
white ones, and of these the ones that retain their dark-red color 
after cooking are preferable to any other. The root, however, is 
not the only part of this plant that is eaten, for the tops are also 
much used for food. When the tops are to be cooked, the plants are 
usually not allowed to mature to the extent that the root parts can 
be used ; still, early in the summer, when very small beets are to be 
had with the tops on, both the tops and the beets may be used. At 
this age, the beets are very tender and do not require long cooking. 
If the beets are not eaten when they are young, they are allowed to 
mature in the ground and are then pulled in the fall and stored for 
a winter vegetable. 

Like other root vegetables, beets contain very little protein and fat, 
but in their composition is included a fairly large percentage of 
carbohydrate in the form of sugar. Their total food value is greater 
than that of string beans, but is considerably less than that of 
potatoes. 

72. Selection and Care of Beets. — ^When beets are selected 
as a summer vegetable with the idea of using both the tops and the 
roots, the tops should be fresh, that is, not withered nor rotted. 
When the roots are to be used, either as a summer or a winter 
vegetable, they should have a smooth skin, should contain no 
blemishes, and, as nearly as possible, should be uniform in size. 

Summer beets require about the same care as any other vegetable ; 
that is, they should be kept in a cool, damp place until they are ready 
to be cooked. If they are at all wilted at that time, they may be 
freshened by allowing them to stand in a pan of cold water for 
several hours. Winter beets, however, should be stored in a cool, 
dark place where they will not freeze. A portion of the cellar that 
has a dirt floor is a very good place to put the bins containing such 
vegetables. The woody tissue of beets that are stored increases as 
the winter advances, so that any beets that remain until spring are 
rather hard and extremely difficult to cook. In fact, at times it is 
almost impossible to make them soft enough to serve, but they can 
be greatly improved by soaking them in cold water for a few hours 
before cooking them. 



34 VEGETABLES § 14 

73. Preparation and Cooking of Beets. — In preparing 
young beets for cooking, allow an inch or two of the stems to remain 
on the beets in order to prevent them from bleeding. Of course, 
from winter beets, the entire stem should be removed, as it will be 
dried up. Scrub beets of either variety carefully with a vegetable 
brush until entirely free from dirt. Then, whether they are old 
or young, put them to cook in boiling water without removing their 
skins. Allow them to cook until they are soft enough to be pierced 
with a fork. This is the best way in which to determine when the 
beets are done, for as the length of time required to cook them 
depends entirely on their age, no definite time can be stated. As 
soon as they are sufficiently cooked, pour off the water, allow them 
to eool enough to handle, and then remove the skins, which will slip 
off easily. 

74. Buttered. Beets. — Butter added to beets increases both 
their nutriment and their flavor. In order to prepare buttered beets, 
first clean and cook them in the manner just explained. To remove 
the skins, scrape the beets as thinly as possible, so as not to waste any 
more than is necessary. Then slice them thin or cut them into 
•J-inch cubes, season well with salt and pepper, and add 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter for each four persons to be served. Allow the beets 
to heat thoroughly in the butter, and serve hot. 

75. Beets With. Cream Dressing. — If a creamed vegetable 
is desired, beets to which cream has been added will be very satis- 
factory. Clean and cook the beets in the manner explained in 
Art. 73. Then peel, cut into slices, place in a saucepan, and nearly 
cover with thin cream. Allow them to cook in the cream for a few 
minutes, season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

76. Beets With. Sour Dressing. — To give variety, beets are 
sometimes served with a sour dressing. Probably no other vege- 
table lends itself so well to this sort of preparation as beets, with 
the result that a very appetizing dish is provided. 

Beets With Souk Dressing 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 medium-sized beets ^ tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. butter ^ c. vinegar 

2 Tb. flour 1 J c. hot water 

1 tsp. salt 
Prepare and cook the beets as explained in Art. 73. When 
tender, drain them, remove the skins, and dice the beets. Make a 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



35 



sauce by melting the butter in a double boiler and adding the flour, 
salt, pepper, vinegar, and hot water. Cook until the flour thickens 
the sauce and then pour over the beets. Heat together and serve. 

77. Baked. Beets. — If something entirely different in the way 
of a vegetable dish is wanted, baked beets will meet with favor. 
Beets may be baked in a covered baking dish or on the open grate 
of an oven. A slow fire produces the best results, and as a rule it 
will take 4 or 5 hours to bake good-sized beets. 

Wash thoroughly and dry the desired number of beets. Place 
them in a baking dish and set in a slow oven or place them on the 
open grate. Bake until they may be pierced with a fork. Remove 
from the skins and serve with a sour sauce or merely with salt, 
pepper, and butter. 

78. Pickled Beets. — When beets are cooked for any of the 
recipes that have been given, it will be economy to boil more than 
will be needed for one meal, for a large number can be cooked with 
practically the same quantity of fuel as a few. Then the remainder 
may be pickled by peeling them, cutting them into slices, and pouring 
over them hot vinegar sweetened slightly and flavored with spice. 
Pickled beets make an excellent relish and they will keep for an 
indefinite period. 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS AND THEIR PREPARATION 
79. Brussels sprouts, as shown in Fig. 6, look just like tiny 
green heads of cabbage. 



These 
heads grow along a stem that 
protrudes above the surface of 
the ground in much the same 
way as does the stem to which 
a head of cabbage is attached. 
The heads are cut from the stem 
and then usually packed in quart 
boxes. It is in such boxes as 
these that they are found in the 
markets, where they can be pur- 
chased from December until 
early spring. They are con- 
sidered a great delicacy because of the fineness of their flavor, 
which rivals that of cauliflower and, while closely resembling that 




36 



VEGETABLES 



§M 



of cabbage, is much superior to it. In food value, they are some- 
what higher than cauHflower, but about equal to beets. 

80. Cooking of Brussels Sprouts.' — To prepare Brussels 
sprouts for the table, break off the outside leaves from the heads, 
and then in order to remove any bugs that may be lodged in the 
heads, allow them to stand in cold salted water for 1 hour or so 
before cooking. After removing the sprouts from the salted water, 
pour enough boiling water over them to cover them well, add 1 
teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water, and boil without any 
cover on the kettle until they can be easily pierced with a fork. Care 
should be taken not to overcook the sprouts, for when they are 
cooked too long they become red in color and develop a strong flavor. 

81. Buttered Brussels Sprouts. — ^When Brussels sprouts 
are properly cooked and then seasoned with salt and pepper and 




Fig. 7 

flavored with butter, an appetizing dish is the result. To make such 
a dish for about six persons, prepare and cook 1 quart of Brussels 
sprouts in the manner just explained. When they are tender, pour 
off the water, season with additional salt and a dash of pepper, and 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Allow the butter to melt over the 
sprouts and then serve hot. 

If a more attractive dish is desired, the Brussels sprouts prepared 
in this way may be combined with French lamb chops, as shown in 
Fig. 7. Pile up the buttered sprouts in the center of a platter, and 
then place broiled or sauted lamb chops, whose ends are trimmed 
with paper frills, around the sprouts in the manner shown. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 37 

82. Creamed. Brussels Sprouts. — A very satisfactory way 
in which to prepare Brussels sprouts is to serve a cream sauce over 
them. This sauce, of course, adds food value, and at the same time 
greatly improves the flavor of the vegetable. 

Creamed Brussels Sprouts 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. Brussels sprouts 1^ c. milk 

2 Tb. butter 1 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. flour Dash of pepper 

Prepare and cook the sprouts as explained in Art. 80. When they 
are tender, drain the water from them. Make a white sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk, salt, and pepper. Pour this over the sprouts, 
heat together, and serve. 

83. Scalloped Brussels Sprouts. — Undoubtedly the most 
palatable way of preparing Brussels sprouts is to scallop them. The 
ingredients used in the preparation of this dish add food value, as 
well as flavor. 

Scalloped Brussels Sprouts 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. Brussels sprouts 1 tsp. salt 
3 Tb. butter 2 c. milk 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. buttered crumbs 
Prepare the sprouts as explained in Art. 80. Cook them in boil- 
ing salted water until they are tender, and then drain. Make a 
white sauce of 2 tablespoon fuls of the butter, flour, salt, and milk. 
Butter the crumbs by pouring 1 tablespoonful of melted butter over 
them, stirring until well blended. Place one-fourth of the crumbs 
in the bottom of a baking dish, add about half of the sprouts, and 
place another fourth of the crumbs over the sprouts. Add the 
remaining half of the sprouts and pour the sauce over these. 
Sprinkle the rest of the crumbs over the top, place in the oven, and 
bake until the crumbs are brown and the ingredients thoroughly 
heated. 



CABBAGE AND ITS PREPARATION 

84. Cabbage consists of the foliage of the cabbage plant. It 
is a succulent vegetable with a high flavor; in fact, its flavor is so 
strong that in many cases it disagrees with persons. However, if 
cabbage is properly cooked, no apprehension need be felt about eating 
it, for it can be digested by most persons. 



38 VEGETABLES § 14 

The food value of cabbage is not high, being even less than that 
of string beans. The greater part of this food value is carbohy- 
drate in the form of sugar, but in order to prepare cabbage so that 
it has any importance in the meal, considerable quantities of protein, 
fat, and carbohydrate must be added. In itself, it is valuable for 
its mineral salts and bulk. 

Numerous varieties of cabbage can be procured, but only three 
are commonly used. These include white cabbage, which is used 
the most; purple cabbage, which is very dark in color and contains 
varying shades of red and blue ; and Savoy cabbage, which has a 
large number of green crinkled leaves and is commonly cooked by 
boiling. 

85. Selection and Care of Cabbage. — Heads of cabbage 
that feel firm and solid to the touch and are rather heavy for their 
size are the best to select for cooking purposes. This vegetable 
comes into the market early in the summer and may be had until 
late in the fall. As it has excellent keeping qualities, it may be 
stored for use as a winter vegetable. When this is done, the stem 
and the roots should be allowed to remain on the head, for then 
the cabbage is less apt to wither. If this precaution is taken and the 
cabbage is stored in a cool place, no great care is required to keep 
it in good condition until it is to be cooked unless, of course, it is 
kept for an abnormal length of time. 

86. Preparation and Cooking of Cabbage. — To prepare 
cabbage for cooking, remove the outside leaves and then cut the 
head that remains into pieces of any desirable size. Whether the 
cabbage should be left in large pieces or cut very fine depends on 
the dish that is to be prepared. For the first cutting, be sure to cut 
the head down through the heart and the stem, so that the part not 
used will remain intact. This may then be used another time if it 
is kept cool and moist. In case the cabbage becomes at all wilted, it 
may be freshened by placing it in cold water a short time before 
it is to be cooked. 

87. Cabbage is a vegetable that has many uses and is eaten both 
raw and cooked. Numerous opinions exist about the difference in 
digestibility between raw and cooked cabbage, as well as the best 
ways in which to cook this vegetable. It may be true that in some 
cases raw cabbage does not cause the disagreeable effect that cooked 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 39 

cabbage often does, but the reason for this is that cabbage when 
raw has a milder flavor than when cooked, cabbage generally develop- 
ing during the cooking a strong flavor that causes trouble. The 
flavor of cabbage, however, may be dissipated if attention is given 
to the cooking, so that, when properly prepared, cabbage can be eaten 
with little fear of indigestion. 

88. When cabbage is cooked, it is usually boiled like other vege- 
tables ; that is, it is covered well with boiling water to which 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt is added for each quart, and then allowed to boil 
until it can be easily pierced with a fork. Its cooking differs, how- 
ever, from that of many vegetables, string beans, for instance, in that 
it is carried on with the cover removed from the kettle. This plan 
permits of the evaporation of much of the strong flavor, which arises 
in the steam and which would otherwise be reabsorbed by the cab- 
bage. Since it is the retention of this flavor, together with long 
cooking, that causes this vegetable to disagree with persons who eat 
it, both of these points should be carefully watched. If it is cooked 
in an open vessel and it is boiled just long enough to be tender, so 
that when done it is white and fresh-looking and not in any way dis- 
colored, an easily digested dish will be the result. Usually cabbage 
will cook sufficiently in i hour and often in less time. 

89. Boiled Cabbage. — Although cabbage permits of numerous 
methods of preparation, plain boiled cabbage finds favor with many 
persons. Generally, cabbage prepared in this way is merely sea- 
soned with butter and served in a part of the liquid in which it is 
cooked, but it has a more appetizing flavor if bacon or ham fat is 
used for seasoning or if a small quantity of ham or salt pork 
is cooked with it. 

To prepare boiled cabbage, remove the outside leaves from a head 
of cabbage, cut it in half down through the heart, and then cut each 
half into coarse pieces. Unless it is very fresh, allow it to stand 
in cold water for at least 1 hour before cooking. Put it into a kettle 
or a saucepan, cover well with boiling water, and add 1 teaspoonful 
of salt for each quart of water. If ham or salt pork is to be cooked 
with the cabbage, put a small piece in the kettle with the cabbage. 
Allow the cabbage to cook with the cover removed until it is suffi- 
ciently tender to be pierced with a fork. Pour off all or a part of 
the liquid, depending on whether it is to be served dry or in its own 
liquid, and then, in case it has been cooked alone, add butter or ham 



40 VEGETABLES § 14 

or bacon fat for flavor. If not sufficiently seasoned, add pepper and 
more salt. 

90. Creamed Cabbage. — When cabbage is to be creamed, it 
is cut up into fairly fine pieces with a sharp knife. The cream 
sauce that is added to it provides considerable food value and 
greatly improves its flavor. 

Creamed Cabbage 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. finely cut cabbage Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. butter -J c. milk or thin cream 

2 Tb. flour -J c. liquid from cabbage 

i tsp. salt 
Cook the cabbage according to the directions given in Art. 89 
until it is tender and then drain the water from it. While it is 
cooking, melt the butter in a double boiler, add the flour, and stir 
until smooth. Pour in the heated liquid and season with the salt and 
pepper. Stir until the flour is thickened and the sauce is smooth. 
Pour this over the cabbage, heat together for a few minutes, and 
serve hot. 

91. Scalloped Cabbage^ — Scalloped cabbage is a particularly 
appetizing vegetable dish, and, on account of the ingredients used 
in its preparation, it is more nutritious than some of the other dishes 
in which cabbage is used. 

Scalloped Cabbage 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. cabbage 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. buttered crumbs i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. butter 1 c. milk 

2 Tb. flour I c. liquid from cabbage 

Cut the cabbage into very small pieces with a sharp knife or a 
cabbage chopper. Cook according to the directions given in Art. 89 
until nearly tender, and then drain. Sp^ead i cupful of the buttered 
crumbs in the bottom of a baking dish, put one-half of the cabbage 
over this, and then add another i cupful of the crumbs and the 
remaining cabbage. Over this pour a white sauce made from the 
butter, flour, salt, pepper, milk, and liquid from the cabbage. 
Sprinkle the rest of the crumbs over the top. Bake in a slow oven 
until the cabbage is thoroughly heated through and the crumbs are 
browned on top. This baking will complete the cooking of the 
cabbage. Serve hot. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 41 

92. Hot Slaw. — If a slightly sour flavor i's desired in a vege- 
table dish, hot slaw will undoubtedly appeal to the taste. 

Hot Slaw 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. cabbage | tsp. salt 

1 c. water i c. vinegar 

2 Tb. butter 1 egg 
1 Tb. flour 

Slice the cabbage very fine with a sharp knife or a cabbage cutter. 
Put it in a saucepan, add the water, and allow it to cook until the 
water is about half evaporated. Melt the butter in a pan and to it 
add the flour, salt, and vinegar. Then stir the beaten egg in quickly 
and pour this sauce over the cabbage at once. Allow the mixture 
to cook until the sauce has thickened, stirring constantly to prevent 
the curding of the egg. Serve hot. 

93. Making Sauerkraut. — As is well known, sauerkraut 
is a cabbage preparation that is made by salting finely cut cabbage, 
packing it tightly, and allowing it to ferment under pressure. This 
food is made and sold commercially, so that the housewife can 
usually purchase it in any quantity she desires. However, as it is 
not at all difficult to make sauerkraut, and as a supply of cabbage 
in this form provides a valuable article of food during the winter 
months in households where it is relished, the housewife will do well 
to prepare enough of this kind of cabbage to vary her meals during 
the winter. That she may understand how to proceed with the 
making of sauerkraut and the proper cooking of it, the accompany- 
ing directions and recipes are given. 

94. For every 10 medium-sized heads of cabbage, measure 
2 cupfuls of salt. Cut the heads of cabbage into quarters and shred 
on a cabbage slicer, or cutter. Place several inches of the shredded 
cabbage in the bottom of a large crock, and over it sprinkle a layer 
of salt. Stamp this down with a wooden potato masher or some 
other similar utensil. Then add another layer of cabbage and salt 
and stamp this down in the same way. Proceed in this manner until 
the crock is nearly full. Then place a clean cloth over the cabbage 
in the crock. On this cloth place a clean board as near the size of 
the crock as possible, and on the board place a large clean stone or 
some other weight. When thus filled and weighted down, place the 
crock in a cool place. The cabbage will then begin to ferment, 
and it is this fermentation that changes the cabbage into sauer- 

W I— C 2-11 



42 VEGETABLES § U 

kraut. After a time, juice will form and gradually rise over the top 
of the board, and on top of this juice will form a scum. Remove 
this scum at once, and do not allow any to collect at any time after 
the fermentation of the cabbage ceases. Occasionally, when a supply 
of sauerkraut is taken from the crock for cooking, replace the 
cloth by a clean one, but always be sure to put the board and the 
weight back in place. 

95. Sauerkraut Witli Spareribs. — Persons who are fond 

of sauerkraut find the combination of sauerkraut and spareribs 

very appetizing. The spareribs give the cabbage a very pleasing 

flavor and at the same time supply nourishment to the dish. 

Sauerkraut With Spaiieribs 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. sauerkraut 1 tsp. salt 

2 lb. spareribs 3 c. water 

Put the sauerkraut and the spareribs into a kettle and add the 
salt and water. Allow to simmer slowly for 2 or more hours. If 
additional water is necessary, add it from time to time. Just before 
removing from the heat, allow the water to boil down so that what 
remains may be served with the hot sauerkraut. 

96. Baked Sauerkraut. — In the cooking of sauerkraut for 
the table, pork in one form or another is generally added; in fact, 
one rarely thinks of sauerkraut except in combination with pork. 
While boiling is the method that is usually applied to this vege- 
table, many housewives prefer to bake it, for then the odor does not 
escape so easily and a flavor that most persons prefer is developed. 

Baked Sauerkraut 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 lb. fresh pork 1 Tb. salt 

1 qt. sauerkraut 3 c. water 

Cut the pork into several large chunks, and put it with the sauer- 
kraut into a baking dish that has a cover. Add the salt and water, 
cover the dish and place in the oven. Bake slowly for 2 or 3 hours. 
Serve hot. 

97. Sauted Sauerkraut. — If an entirely different way of 

cooking sauerkraut is desired, it may be sauted. When nicely 

browned and served with boiled frankfurters, it is very appetizing. 

Saut£d Sauerkraut 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. sauerkraut 2 tsp. salt 

4 Tb. bacon or ham fat 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 43 

Steam the sauerkraut over boiling water for about 1 hour. Then 
melt the fat in an iron frying pan, add the sauerkraut and sprinkle 
with the salt. Place a cover over the pan and allow the sauerkraut 
to saute until it is slightly browned on the bottom. Stir and con- 
tinue to cook until the entire amount is slightly browned. Serve hot. 



CARROTS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

98. Carrots are one of the root -"regetables. They are similar 
in composition to beets, having practically the same total food value, 
which is for the most part carbohydrate in the form of sugar. 
Besides being valuable in the diet for their mineral salts and 
bulk, they add variety to the menu, especially in the winter, for 
upon maturing they can be kept for a long time if they are properly 
stored. As tiny young carrots, they are also much used as a sum- 
mer vegetable, and when cooked whole and served in an attractive 
way they make a delicious vegetable dish. 

99. Selection and Preparation. — The selection of carrots 
is a simple matter, because they keep well and are not likely to be 
found in a spoiled condition in the market. When small summer 
carrots are purchased, they should be fresh and should have their 
tops on. Winter carrots should be as nearly uniform in size as 
possible and should not be extremely large. Those which are too 
large in circumference are likely to have a hollow in the center and 
are not nearly so desirable as thin, solid ones. Carrots of any kind 
should be uniform in color, and should be without the green portion 
that is sometimes found on the top near the stem and that is caused 
by exposure to the light in growing. 

100. In preparing carrots for cooking, they should be scraped 
rather than peeled, in order to avoid wasting any of the vegetable. 
They are always cooked in boiling salted water, after which they 
can be treated in various ways. The water in which carrots are 
cooked should not be thrown away, as it may be used to flavor soup 
stock. If any carrots remain after a meal, they may be utilized in 
vegetable salad or soup. 

101. Buttered Carrots. — If small, tender carrots can be 
obtained, they will be found to be delicious upon being boiled and 
then dressed with butter. Winter carrots may be prepared in this 



U VEGETABLES | U 

way too> but they will probably require a little more cooking to make 
them tender. 

BuTTEitED Carrots 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. diced carrots i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

Wash and scrape the carrots and cut into half -inch pieces. Put 
to cook in enough boiling water to cover the carrots well, and add 
1 teaspoonful of salt for each quart of water. Cook in a covered 
kettle until they can be easily pierced with a fork and then drain 
ofif the water. Add the butter, salt, and pepper, heat until the butter 
melts, and serve. 

102. Carrots "With Parsley. — The addition of parsley to 
carrots gives a flavor that improves them very much. This should 
be chopped fine and added after the carrots have cooked sufficiently. 

Carrots With Parsley 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. sliced carrots i tsp. salt 

3 Tb. parsley finely chopped Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. butter 
Wash and scrape the carrots, slice in very thin slices, and cook 
until tender in boiling salted water. Drain and add the chopped 
parsley, butter, salt, and pepper. Mix carefully so as not to break 
the slices of carrot. Serve hot. 

103. Browned Carrots. — A very appetizing way in which to 
prepare carrots is to cut them in slices lengthwise, boil them until 
tender, and then brown them in fat. Wash and scrape the desired 
number of carrots, cut into slices lengthwise, and if large-sized 
carrots are used, cut the slices into halves. Cook in boiling salted 
water until tender and then drain. Melt some fat in a frying pan, 
place the carrots in the hot fat, and brown first on one side and then 
on the other, turning the slices carefully so as not to break them. 
A few minutes before removing the carrots from the frying pan, 
sprinkle sugar over them and allow the sugar to melt. In removing 
them to a vegetable dish, pour over them the sirup that forms. 
Serve hot. 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



45 



CAULIFLOWER AND ITS PREPARATION 

104. Cauliflower grows in heads as does cabbage, but only 
the flower or blossom of the plant is eaten. A head of cauliflower 
from which the leaves have not been removed is shown in Fig. 8. In 
flavor and composition this vegetable is similar to cabbage, but its 
flavor is a little more delicate. Still, cauliflower should always be 
cooked in an uncovered 
vessel, as are cabbage 
and Brussels sprouts, if 
a strong disagreeable 
flavor would be avoided. 

105. Selection 

and. Cooking. — Very 
solid heads of cauli- 
flower that are creamy 
white in color and free 
from the black specks or 
blemishes so common to 
this vegetable should be 
selected for cooking. 
The only care that cauli- 
flower requires before 
cooking is to keep it in a cool place, for it does not wilt nor decay 
quickly. 

To prepare this vegetable for cooking, the white head should be 
cut from the leaves, which are discarded. Then the. head should be 
placed upside down in a pan of salt water and allowed to soak for 
an hour in order to drive out the small bugs or worms that are so 
frequently found in this vegetable. The cauliflower may then be 
cooked whole or broken apart, but in either case it should be cooked 
until tender in boiling salted water with the cover removed from 
the kettle. 

106. Cauliflower With Tomato Sauce, — Variety can be 
secured in the preparation of cauliflower by serving it with a tomato 
sauce. Besides being very palatable, this is an extremely attractive 
dish because of the contrast in colors. Chicken gravy may be used 
instead of tomato sauce, and a most delightful dish is the result. 




i?lG. s 



46 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



Cauliflower With Tomato Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 head cauliflower J tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour 2 c. strained tomato 

Soak the cauHflower in cold salted water, and then tie it carefully 
in a piece of cheesecloth and put it to cook in boiling salted water. 
Cook until tender, but not so long that it will fall to pieces. Take 
from the water, remove the cheesecloth carefully, and place the cauli- 
flower in a vegetable dish. While the cauliflower is cooking, prepare 
the sauce by melting the butter in a double boiler, adding the flour, 
salt, and pepper, and stirring into this the heated strained tomato 
made by forcing canned or stewed tomatoes through a sieve. Cook 
until the sauce has thickened and then pour over the cauliflower in 
the vegetable dish. Serve hot. 

107. Scalloped. Cauliflower. — Another opportunity to make 
a delicious scalloped dish is afforded by cauliflower. In fact, many 




Fig. 9 

persons prefer scalloped cauliflower to any of the dishes made from 
this vegetable. The ingredients used with the cauliflower increase 
its food value, which is somewhat low. 

Scalloped Cauliflower 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 head cauliflower 1 c. water from cauliflower 

2 Tb. butter 4 tsp. salt 

2 Tb. flour Dash of pepper 

1 c. milk 1 c. buttered crumbs 



§ U VEGETABLES 47 

Prepare and cook the cauliflower according to the directions given 
in Art. 105, breaking it into flowerets before pouring the boiling 
water on it. When it has cooked tender, drain the water from it. 
Prepare a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, water from the cauli- 
flower, salt, and pepper. Butter the crumbs by pouring 1 table- 
spoonful of melted butter over them. Put ^ cupful of the crumbs 
on the bottom of a baking dish, add one-half of the cauliflower, and 
over this place another ^ cupful of crumbs. Then add the remain- 
der of the cauliflower, and pour the white sauce over all. Sprinkle 
the remainder of the crumbs over the top. Place in a hot oven and 
bake until well heated through and brown on top. Serve from 
the dish. 

108. Creamed Cauliflower. — A very attractive vegetable 
dish can be prepared from cauliflower by cooking the head whole 
and then serving a cream sauce over it, as shown in Fig. 9. In 
serving, a portion of the head should be broken off for each person 
and served with a little of the cream sauce. 
Creamed Cauliflower 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 head cauliflower 4 c. water in which cauliflower 

2 Tb. butter was cooked 
2 Tb. flour J tsp. salt 

1 c. milk Dash of pepper 

Soak a solid head of cauliflower in cold salted water for about 
1 hour. Then wash thoroughly, wrap carefully in cheesecloth, and 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. When sufficiently cooked, 
drain, and make a sauce of the other ingredients. Place the cauli- 
flower in a vegetable dish, pour the white sauce over it, and serve hot. 



CELERY AND ITS PREPARATION 

109. Celery is the stem of a plant that grows in stalks, as 
shown in Fig. 10. When the stalks are large, they are sold singly, 
but if they are very small, several of them are tied together and sold 
in a bunch. The season for celery begins in the fall and lasts until 
early spring. It may be' obtained in the summer, but as the price is 
usually high and the quality not good, very little use should be made 
of it during that time. 

The chief use of celery is as a relish, when it is eaten raw, but it 
is also valuable for flavoring soups and making salads, pickles, and 



48 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



various other dishes. It is probably used less frequently as a cooked 
vegetable than in any other way, but when it is in season and can be 
purchased at a reasonable price, it should be cooked to give variety 
to the diet. 

The food value of celery is extremely low, being less than 100 
calories to the pound or about equal to that of 1 ounce of meat. 
However, in spite of this fact, celery is valuable for its mineral 
salts and bulk, as well as for the appetizing quality that it lends to 
various foods and to the meals at which it is served. 



110. Care and Preparation. — Well-bleached, firm stalks of 
celery should be selected for use. After it comes into the house, it 

may be kept in good condi- 
tion for a long time if it is 
wrapped in a damp cloth 
and put where it will keep 
cool. A good plan is to 
serve the hearts and tender 
inside stems raw, as ex- 
plained in Soup, and then to 
use the coarse outside stems 
for cooking, flavoring 
soups, or making salads. 
Celery must be cleaned 
carefully for dirt often 
clings to the ridges. After 
being scrubbed thoroughly, 
it will become crisp and 
tender if it is allowed to 
stand in cold water for 
some time before serving. 
When it is to be served as a 
cooked vegetable, it should 
be cooked in boiling salted water, as are other vegetables, and then 
seasoned or dressed in any desirable way. The water in which it 
is cooked should be utilized in the making of sauce or soup. 

111. Creamed Celery. — The usual way of preparing celery 
when it is to be served as a cooked vegetable is to cream it. The 
cream sauce that is added to the celery increases its food value 




Fig. 10 



§' 14 VEGETABLES 49 

considerably and greatly improves its flavor. This sauce may be 
made entirely of milk or of half milk and half liquid from the celery. 

Creamed Celery 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. diced celery Dash of pepper 

3 Tb. butter Ic.milk 

3 Tb. flour ^ c. water in which celery was 
1 tsp. salt cooked 

Cook the celery in boiling salted water until tender, and then 
drain. When the celery has cooked, make a white sauce of the other 
ingredients. Pour this sauce over the cooked celery, heat together, 
and serve. 

112. Celery au Gratin. — The food value of celery may be 

still further increased by combining it with cheese and bread crumbs 
in addition to a cream sauce. Such a dish, which is known as celery 
au gratin, is prepared according to the accompanying recipe. 

Celery au Gratin 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. diced celery 1 c. milk 

2i Tb. butter 1 c. water in which celery was 

2i Tb. flour cooked 

i tsp. salt 1 c. buttered crumbs 

Dash of pepper J c. grated cheese 

Cook the celery in boiling salted water until tender and then drain. 
Prepare the cream sauce in the usual manner. Butter the crumbs 
by stirring them into 1 tablespoonful of melted butter. Put i cupful 
of the crumbs in the bottom of a baking dish and put one-half of 
the celery over them. Place another ^ cupful of the crumbs over 
the celery, and on top of this sprinkle ^ cupful of the grated cheese. 
Add the remainder of the celery and pour the sauce over this. 
Finally, add the other ^ cupful of cheese and the remainder of the 
crumbs. Place in a hot oven, and bake until well heated through 
and the crumbs are browned. Serve hot. 



CORN AND ITS PREPARATION 

113. The seeds of the maize plant, or Indian corn, especially 
the variety known as sweet corn, are eaten as a vegetable when they 
are immature. They grow on a woody cob, and when they are green 
they are soft and milky; but when they become ripe they are hard 
and are then ground as grain. Many varieties of sweet corn are 



50 VEGETABLES § 14 

used, but some are better in quality than others. In some varieties, 
the kernels, or seeds, are yellow, while in others they are white; 
also, some of them are suitable for use early in the summer, while 
others come later in the season. However, in spite of this difference 
in quality, color, and season, all kinds of corn used as a vegetable 
are called green corn and may be prepared in exactly the same ways. 

114. The food value of corn, which is very high, even exceeding 
that of Irish potatoes, is due principally to the carbohydrate it con- 
tains. This food substance is in the form of sugar in the green 
kernels, but as they mature it changes to starch. The food value 
of the dry grain is therefore higher, and the carbohydrate is in a 
different form. 

When the contents of the kernels is still in the liquJd form, the 
corn is said to be at the milk stage, and is generally considered to 
be too young for table use. On the other hand, when the liquid in 
the kernels has become thickened, the corn, which is then at the 
dough stage, is thought to be too old for use as a vegetable. To be 
ideal for culinary purposes, it should be just between the milk and 
dough stages. Then, if it is in good condition, a most satisfactory 
vegetable is the result. 

115. The ear on which the corn kernels grow is entirely encased 
In several layers of husks. These are not removed until just before 
the corn is to be cooked ; so when this vegetable is in the market the 
husks are allowed to remain on the ears. The condition of the ears 
can be determined by stripping the husks down a little and examining 
the kernels. If they are well filled, they may be considered to be in 
proper condition; otherwise, they will not be suitable for cooking. 
No special care need be given to green com, provided it is not 
husked. However, when it has been husked, it should be cooked at 
once. In the husking of corn, all corn silk that is found inside of the 
husks should be carefully removed, for this is very annoying in the 
cooked vegetable and its presence indicates carelessness. 

116. Corn on the Cob. — The simplest way in which to pre- 
pare green corn is to cook it on the cob. When corn first comes into 
the market, it is usually very tender and makes a most satisfactory 
dish when prepared in this way. 

To cook corn on the cob, husk the corn, remove the silk from the 
ears, and place them in a kettle. Pour enough boiling water over 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



51 




Fig. 11 



them to cover them well, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt for each 
quart of water. Boil 5 minutes, remove from the water, and serve 
at once. In eating corn 
on the cob, most persons 
dress it with butter, pep- 
per, and salt 

117. Corn Cooked 

in Milk. — Often it is 

not desired to eat corn 

on the cob. When this 

is the case, it may be cut 

off the ear and cooked in 

various ways. A simple 

way to prepare it is to 

cook it with milk and 

season it with salt, 

pepper, and butter, as explained in the accompanying recipe. 
Select the desired number of ears of green corn, husk them, and 

remove the silk. Then, as shown in Fig. 11, cut the corn from the 

cob with a sharp knife, grasping the ear by the larger end and cutting 

upwards. After cutting off the kernels, scrape the ears so that 

nothing edible will be wasted, drawing the knife downwards. Put 

the corn into a saucepan, add milk until the corn is nearly covered, 

and season ' with salt, 
pepper, and a little but- 
ter. Allow the corn to 
simmer for about 10 
minutes, stirring f r e - 
quently to prevent the 
milk from sticking to 
the bottom of the pan 
and scorching. No difh- 
culty will be experienced 
in the preparation of this 
dish if a double boiler 
is used, but longer cook- 
ing will be required. 

When the corn is sufficiently cooked, remove from the fire and 

serve hot. 




Fig. 12 



52 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



118. Corn Pulp. — Some persons are unable to digest the 
coarse hulls of green corn, but can eat the corn if the hulls are 
removed. Such persons need not be deprived of the delights of 
this vegetable, for it may be prepared in the form of pulp, which 
will not disagree with them. 

To prepare corn pulp, first cut a slit down each row of kernels 
with a sharp knife as shown in Fig. 12 ; then, in the manner shown 

in Fig. 13, scrape out the 
contents of the kernels 
with the dull edge of the 
knife, drawing the knife 
downwards. When all 
the pulp has been re- 
moved, season it with 
salt, pepper, and butter, 
and heat it thoroughly 
in a double boiler. Serve 
hot. 

If it is not desirable 
to serve the corn pulp in 
this manner, it may be 
used in various ways, as 
the following recipes in- 
dicate. A good substitute for com pulp is canned corn, but this 
must be chopped in order to break up the hulls. 

119. Corn Souffle. — No more delightful corn dish can be 
prepared than corn souffle, for in addition to its being appetizing and 
nutritious, it is extremely dainty. It may be cooked in a baking 
dish, but it is more attractive when baked in individual baking 
dishes. A point to remember about its preparation is that it should 
be served immediately upon being taken from the oven, for souffle 
always shrinks as it cools. 

Corn Souffle 

(SuiBcient to Serve Six) 

2 c. green corn pulp 2 Tb. flour 

1 tsp. salt ^ c. milk 
Dash of pepper 2 eggs 

2 Tb. melted butter 

Mix the corn pulp, salt, pepper, and melted butter, stir in the 
flour, and add the milk. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, and add 




Fig. 13 



§14 



VEGETABLES 



53 



them to the mixture. Then beat the whites stiff and fold them in. 
Pour into a buttered baking dish or into individual baking dishes, 
set in a pan of hot water, and bake until brown. Serve at once. 

120. Corn Oysters. — ^Variety can be secured in the use of 
corn by making corn oysters. These get their name from the fact 
that they resemble oysters in both size and shape. They may be 
served as a garnish for a meat dish or as a vegetable dish. 

Corn Oysters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. corn pulp -J tsp. salt 

1 egg Dash of pepper 

^ c. flour i tsp. baking powder 

Prepare the corn pulp according to the directions given in 

Art. 118. To this add the beaten egg, flour, salt, pepper, and 

baking powder. Drop in tablespoonfuls on a well-greased griddle. 

When brown on one side, turn and brown on the other side. 

Then fold through the center, doubling one side over the other. 

Serve hot. 

121. Corn. Fritters. — The popularity of corn fritters, which 
have corn pulp as their foundation, is undoubtedly due both to their 
flavor and to the variety they afford in the diet. After being fried, 




Fig. 14 

corn fritters should appear as shown in Fig. 14. They may be 
served plain, but most persons prefer them with a sauce of some 
kind or with maple sirup. 

Corn Frftters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. corn pulp, or 1 can corn, 1 tsp. baking powder 

chopped 1 tsp. salt 

1 c. flour 2 eggs 



54 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



If canned corn is used, drain off the liquid before using it. To 
the corn, add the flour, baking powder, and salt. Separate the eggs 
and stir in the beaten yolks. Beat the whites stiff and fold them into 
the mixture. Drop with a spoon into deep fat, fry until brown, 
remove from the fat, and drain on paper. Serve plain, with a 
desired sauce, or with maple sirup. 



CUCUMBERS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

122. The hard-rinded fruit of the cucumber plant has been used 
from time immemorial as a vegetable. In food value, cucumbers 
are very low, comparing closely with celery in this respect; how- 
ever, as they contain a large amount of cellulose, or bulk, and min- 
eral salts, they should not be disregarded in the diet. They have a 




Fig. 15 

rather strong flavor uue to their volatile oils, which so frequently 
disagree with persons and which give cucumbers a reputation for 
being difficult to digest. However, when they are properly prepared, 
they can be eaten by most persons without harm. 

123. Formerly it was the custom to soak slices of cucumber in 
salt water before serving them. This procedure, however, has been 
found to be poor policy, for nothing is gained by it and the salt 
toughens the cellulose and makes the cucumbers limp and rubbery 
in texture. A much more satisfactory way to prepare cucumbers is 
to slice them and then soak them for some time before serving in 
ice water or water as cold as can be obtained. They will then 
become crisp and delicious, and, besides being more appetizing and 
agreeable, they will be no less digestible. 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 55 

After being sliced and chilled, cucumbers are often combined with 
sliced onions and eaten with vinegar, salt, and pepper, or they are 
eaten alone or on lettuce, dressed with mayonnaise dressing. 

124. Stuffed Cucumbers. — Possibly the only recipe for 
cooked cucumbers that is used to any extent is the accompanying 
one for stuffed cucumbers. Cucumbers prepared in this way are 
very palatable, and because of the ingredients used are much higher 
in food value than when eaten alone. Such a dish is attractive, too, 
as Fig. 15 shows. 

Stuffed Cucumbers 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 cucumbers Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. butter 1^ c. steamed rice 

1 small onion, chopped 1 c. stewed tomatoes 

1 tsp. salt Bread crumbs 

Select medium-sized cucumbers, wash and peel rnem, and cut 
them in half lengthwise. Hollow out the center so that the cucum- 
bers will have the shape of boats. Then melt the butter in a frying 
pan, add the chopped onion, salt, and pepper, and heat together for 
a few minutes. Next add the rice, tomatoes, and sufficient bread 
crumbs to take up any excess of moisture. Fill the cucumbers with 
this mixture and bake until they are soft enough to be easily pierced 
with a fork. During the first part of the cooking, pour a small 
amount of hot water into the pan in which the cucumbers are baked. 
Serve hot. 



EGGPLANT AND ITS PREPARATION 

125. Eggplant belongs to the class of fruit vegetables, and is 
closely related to the tomato in structure and composition. It grows 
rather large in size, is covered with a smooth brownish-purple skin, 
and is made up of material that is close and firm in texture and 
creamy white in color. Because of the nature of its structure, egg- 
plant would seem to be high in food value, but, on the contrary, this 
vegetable has very little. In this respect, it is about equal to cabbage 
and cauliflower and slightly less than string beans. 

126. Eggplant is found in the market from early summer until 
.the beginning of winter. Because it is protected by a heavy skin, 

it keeps well and needs no special care in storage. The strong flavor 
of the pulp is disagreeable to many persons. However, it has been 



56 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



found that much of this flavor may be removed by soaking the egg- 
plant in strong salt water or by sprinkling it with salt after it has 
been sliced and then allowing it to stand for some time. It may 
be prepared in a variety of ways ; so, if the members of the family 
care for it, the housewife will find it of great assistance in planning 
and preparing meals. 

127. Sauted Eggplant. — The usual way of preparing egg- 
plant is to cut it into slices and then saute it. As the slices are 
dipped into beaten egg and then into crumbs before sauteing, the 
food value of this vege- 
table is increased and 
its flavor improved. 

Peel the eggplant and 
then cut it into :i-inch 
slices. Sprinkle salt over 
the slices and let them 
stand for 1 hour or 
more; then pour oflE the 
juice that has collected. 
Beat an egg slightly, and 
to it add a few table- 
spoonfuls of milk or 
water. Dip the slices of 
eggplant first into the beaten egg and then into crumbs. When 
sufficiently coated, saute in shallow fat, browning first on one side 
and then on the other. Serve hot. 

128. Baked Eggplant. — An attractive dish can be made by 
removing the contents from an eggplant, filling the cavity with a 
well-seasoned stuffing, and then baking the stuffed eggplant. When 
an eggplant is prepared in this way, it will appear as in Fig. 16. 

Baked Eggplant 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 medium-sized eggplant -J tsp. pepper 

2 c. dried bread crumbs 1 small onion, chopped 

1 c. milk 1 Tb. parsley 

2 tsp. salt 2 Tb. butter 

Wash the eggplant and cook in boiling water for about 10 min- 
utes. Remove from the water, cut off the top, scoop out the con-, 
tents, and chop it into small pieces. With this finely chopped pulp, 
mix the bread crumbs, milk, salt, pepper, onion, parsley, and melted 




Fig. 16 



§ 14 VEGETABLES 57 

butter. When the whole is thoroughly blended, pack it into the 
shell of the eggplant and place in the oven. Bake for about 30 
minutes or until the stuffing is thoroughly cooked and the top is 
brown. Serve hot. 

129. Scalloped Eggplant. — If it is desired to increase the 
food value of eggplant and improve its flavor too, this vegetable 
should be scalloped. The accompanying recipe carefully followed 
will produce a most appetizing dish. 

Scalloped Eggplant 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 medium-sized eggplant 2 tsp. salt 

1 c. dried crumbs i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. butter l| c. milk 

Peel the eggplant and cut it into -^-inch pieces. Put into a sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling salted water, cook until tender, and then 
drain. Grease a baking dish, spread ^ cupful of crumbs on the 
bottom, and add one-half of the eggplant. Dot with butter and then 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add another ^ cupful of crumbs and 
the remaining eggplant, dot again with butter, and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Pour the milk over the whole and sprinkle the remain- 
ing i cupful of crumbs on the top. Place in the oven and bake for 
^ hour or more. Serve hot. 

FRENCH ARTICHOKES AND THEIR PREPARATION 

130. French articliolces, sometimes known as globe arti- 
chokes, California artichokes, and cardoons, are related to the family 
of thistles. They are grown for the sake of their large flower-heads, 
or buds, which are shown in Fig. 17 and which are much used as a 
food. These plants stand storage and shipment very well and may 
be kept for long periods of time without spoiling. It is therefore 
possible to transport them considerable distances, a very gratifying 
fact, since most persons consider artichokes a great delicacy. 

131. Not all of the artichoke plant is eaten. The portions of 
the flower that develop in the center of the base are removed before 
the base is eaten. After the artichokes are cooked, the scales, or 
leaves, are pulled from the cooked head with the fingers and the 
lower part of each one is dipped into sauce and eaten. The inner 
scales are much more tender and edible than the coarse outside ones. 
Although artichokes find favor with many and are considered 

WI— C2— u 



58 



VEGETABLES 



§14 



somewhat of a delicacy, they are low in food value, being about 
equal to asparagus in this respect. To add food material, a dressing, 




FiG. 17 

such as drawn-butter sauce or mayonnaise dressing, is usually served. 

132. Articliokes With. Hollandaise Sauce. — The usual 
method of preparing artichokes is to boil them and then serve them 
with melted butter or a sauce. Hollandaise dressing is used with the 
artichokes shown in Fig. 18. Boiled artichokes may also be cooled 
and then served with a salad dressing. 

Secure the desired number of artichokes and prepare them for 
boiling by pulling off the coarse outside leaves, cutting off the top of 
the bud, and removing the stem close to the bud. Cover well with 




Fig. 18 



boiling water, add 1 teaspoon ful of salt to each quart, and boil until 
tender, or for about 45 minutes. Remove from the water and serve 
hot with melted butter or Hollandaise sauce. If it is desired to use 
them for a salad, allow them to cool before adding the salad dressing. 



VEGETABLES 

(PART 1) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) To what is the flavor of vegetables largely due? (6) How does 
cookery aifect this? 

(2) Describe the structure of vegetables. 

(3) What food substances do vegetables as a class supply to the diet?. 

(4) (o) What are the legumes? (6) What food substance do they sup- 
ply in quantity to the diet? 

(5) Name the classes of vegetables and give examples of each class. 

(6) (o) When is soaking vegetables in salt water necessary? (&) What 
proportions of salt and water are used? 

(7) What effect has the application of heat on vegetables? 

(8) Give an example of a method of cooking vegetables that.- (o) wastes 
food material; (6) conserves food material. 

(9) Give the reason for the use of soda in cooking vegetables. 

(10) How should salt be used in the cooking of: (o) tender vegetables? 
(b) tough vegetables ? 

(11) Why should care be taken not to overcook cabbage, cauliflower, and 
Brussels sprouts? 

(12) What is a good general rule to follow for the length of time neces- 
sary for cooking vegetables ? 

(13) Of what value are the sauces used to dress vegetables? 

(14) Mention some methods of preparing vegetables that greatly increase 
their food value. 

(15) What value has the addition of salt pork or bacon in the preparation 
of dried beans ? 

(16) (a) Why should the cover be left off the kettle during the cooking 
of cabbage? (6) What other vegetables are cooked in this way? 

(17) Explain why old carrots and beets require longer cooking than 
young ones. 

(18) (o) At what stage is green corn best for table use? (&) How may 
this be recognized? 

(19) What value have corn pulp and bean puree? 

(20) (o) How should cucumbers be prepared before serving raw? 
(b) How may the strong flavor of eggplant be improved? 

§14 



VEGETABLES 

(PART 2) 



PREPARATION OF VEGETABLES AS FOOD 

(Continued) 



GREENS AND THEIR PREPARATION 



VARIETIES AND FOOD VALIIE 

1. Varieties of Greens. — The leaves and stems of many 
young plants in either their wild or their cultivated form are used 
for food. All of them are similar in composition, but many of them 
differ in flavor and appearance. The cultivated ones include beet 
tops, endive, spinach, and kale, as well as lettuce, coUards, Swiss 
chard, sorrel, mustard greens, turnip tops, parsley, and cultivated 
cress and dandelion. The four greens mentioned first are illustrated 
in Fig. 1, beet tops being shown in the lower right corner ; endive, in 
the upper right corner; spinach, in the lower left corner; and kale, 
in the upper left corner. Commonest among the wild greens are 
dandelion, cress, wild mustard, dock, pokeweed sprouts, milkweed 
sprouts, and lamb's-quarters. Most of these wild varieties are 
excellent in the spring when they are young and tender, but it is not 
advisable to use them for food unless one is perfectly familiar with 
their appearance. 

2. Food Value of Greens. — The food value of all greens with 
the exception of dandelion is very low, being just about equal to that 
of celery and cucumbers. This may be increased in their preparation 
by the addition of other food materials. However, the chief use of 
greens in the diet is not to supply food value, but mineral salts, the 
most important one being iron in a form that is necessary for build- 
ing up the blood. 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§15 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING GREENS 

3. The cooking of greens, both wild and cultivated, is not only 
simple but practically the same for all varieties. When they are not 
used as a salad vegetable, they are merely boiled until tender and 
then dressed in any desired way. Some kinds admit of special prepa- 
ration, and wherever this is the case specific directions are given 
under the particular variety, but even in such an event the pre- 
liminary preparation is the same. 

To prepare greens, look them over carefully, remove any decayed 
or withered parts, cut off the leaves, and wash in fresh cold water. 
Remove from the water and wash again, and do this as many times 
as seems necessary to remove all the sand and grit that the stalks 




Fig. 1 

contain. An important point to remember is that the greens should 
not be cleansed by pouring the water off, as the sand will then remain 
in the pan and is likely to mix with the greens again, ^^'hen they 
are thoroughly waslied, put them on to cook in a saucepan or a 
similar utensil. If they are young and tender, they should be cooked 
as much as possible in their own juice in order to retain all the valu- 
able mineral salts they contain, only enough water being added to 
start the cooking without burning. In the case of greens that are 
very strong in flavor, it will be necessary to cook them in a larger 
quantity of water and then pour off what remains after cooking. 
When they have cooked until they are tender, season them if neces- 
sary, and add butter to give them flavor and increase their food 
value. Vinegar or a slice of lemon adds much to the flavor of greens. 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 



BEET TOPS 

4. The tops of beets include the leaves and the stems of this 
vegetable, as Fig. 1 shows. They are at their best when the beets 
are very young or before the beets themselves have developed. 
Beet tops are not used so extensively as some greens, but they will 
be found to have a more agreeable flavor than many greens that are 
more popular. Beets are raised for the purpose of supplying greens 
by planting the seeds closely enough together to form a thick bed of 
leaves and then thinning them out before the beets have developed. 
A few may be allowed to remain and develop for use as beets. 
Young beets that are purchased with the tops on also furnish a 
source of beet tops as well as beets. 

When beet tops are to be cooked, cut the stems into inch lengths 
and use them with the leaves. Proceed to clean and cook the greens 
according to the directions given in Art. 3. Season with salt and 
pepper and flavor with butter. Serve with something tart, such as 
vinegar or lemon. 

DANDElilOlV 

5. Dandelion, both wild and cultivated, is a plant whose leaves 
are much used for a vegetable green before the blossoms develop. 
The wild ones have the advantage of being cheap, so they should be 
used if they can be secured ; the cultivated ones, on the other hand, 
cost as much as spinach and other greens. The season for dande- 
lions is comparatively short, lasting only a few weeks in the early 
spring. Use should therefore be made of them when they can be 
procured in order to secure variety for the menu. When they are 
desired as cooked greens, prepare them in the manner explained 
in Art. 3. 

6. Dandelion With Sour Sauce. — If a change in the cook- 
ing of dandelion is desired, it should be prepared with a sour sauce. 
This method of preparation is very popular, for besides increasing the 
food value of this variety of greens, it improves the flavor very much. 

Dandelion With Sour Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

■J pk. dandelion ^ c. vinegar 

4 thin slices bacon ^ c. water 

2 Tb. flour 1 egg 
1 tsp. salt 



I VEGETABLES § 15 

Clean and wash the dandelion. Cut the slices of bacon into small 
pieces and saute until crisp. Stir the flour and salt into the bacon 
fat, add the vinegar and water, and stir until the flour thickens. Add 
the beaten tgg last, and remove from the fire. Put the dandelion 
into the pan and mix well with the hot sauce. If the dandelion is 
preferred well wilted, set the pan over the flame, and stir until the 
dandelion appears as desired. Serve hot. 



ENDIVE 

7. Endive is an herb that is used as a salad plant or is cooked, 
and served with a hot dressing or as greens. The three common 
varieties of this green are escarole, chicory, and French endive, all 
of which have a slightly bitter taste and may be found in the market 
from late summer until early winter. Escarole is a broad-leaved 
variety that is grown more or less in a head. Chicory, which is 
shown in Fig. 1, has a small feathery-edged leaf, and is often 
bleached by tying the leaves together at the top, so that the inside 
ones are very tender. Both of these varieties may be cooked, but 
they are also much used for salads. French endive bears very little 
resemblance to the other kinds, having straight, creamy-white leaves 
that are closely pressed together. It looks very much like sprouts 
of some kind, and is entirely bleached in the process of growth by 
banking the earth around it. It is never used for anything except 
salads and garnishes. 

8. Endive is very low in food value, comparing very closely with 
celery and cucumbers in this respect. Still, as a salad vegetable, it 
is worthy of much more extensive use than is generally made of it. 
As a rule, its price is about the same as that of lettuce, so it should 
be substituted frequently for lettuce to give variety to the diet. To 
be most satisfactory, endive should be bought when it is fresh and 
unwithered and kept until used in a cool, damp place. A good plan 
is to wrap such vegetables in a damp cloth. If, upon using, endive 
appears to be withered, it may be freshened by placing it in a pan of 
cold water and allowing it to remain there for a short time. 

When endive is used as a salad, it may be served merely with a 
salad dressing of some kind or it may be combined with other vege- 
tables before applying the dressing. Escarole and chicory, which are 
much used as greens, should be prepared and cooked according to the 
directions given in Art. 3. 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



LETTUCE 

9. Lettuce is a well-known herb that is much used as a salad 
vegetable. There are numerous varieties of lettuce, but these may be 
reduced to the two kinds shown in Fig. 2, leaf lettuce on the right and 
head lettuce on the left. Leaf lettuce, which is more often used for 
garnishing than for any other purpose, has firm, crisp, green, upright 
leaves ; on the other hand, head lettuce has round leaves forming a 
compact head, like cabbage. The outside leaves of head lettuce are 
green, but the inside ones are usually bleached by the exclusion of 
light, as are those of cabbage and endive. These inside leaves 
are more tender than the others, and hence more to be desired as a 
salad vegetable than the unbleached variety. In food value, lettuce 




Fig. 2 

compares closely with other varieties of greens and is high in the 
same mineral salts that they are. The bleached leaves do not contain 
so much iron as the green ones. 

10. As has already been implied, lettuce finds its principal use 
in garnishing salads. When used for this purpose, it should be eaten 
along with the salad, for it is too valuable to be wasted. Since the 
coarse outside leaves of a stalk or a head of lettuce do not look so 
well as the tender bleached ones, they are often rejected, but this 
should not be done, for use can also be made of them. For instance, 
such leaves may be shredded into narrow strips and used as a foun- 
dation for salads that will be just as attractive as those having a 
single lettuce leaf for a garnish. When it is realized that the out- 
side leaves are purchased at the same price as the more delicate parts 
of the lettuce, it can readily be understood why they also should be 
utilized as food. 



6 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



Most of the garden varieties of lettuce, especially when they have 
grown very large, are frequently cooked as greens. When used 
in this way, lettuce is prepared, as are other greens, according to 
the directions given in Art. 3. This vegetable also makes an appetiz- 
ing dish when it is prepared with a sauce and served hot in the same 
way as dandelion. 



SPINACH 

11. Spinach, which is shown in Fig. 1, consists of the large, 
fleshy, deep-green leaves of a garden herb much used as a green for 
food. In fact, this is one of the most popular varieties of greens 
and is used more extensively than any other. Many varieties qf 
spinach are grown, but all of them are used in just the same way. 
It is slightly higher in food value than lettuce and endive, but lower 
than dandelion. However, it is a valuable food in the diet because 

of the large quantity of 
iron it contains, and 
many persons eat it not 
so much because they 
like it but because they 
believe it is good for 
them. 

12. Some kinds of 
spinach do not keep for 
long periods of time. 
Therefore, in order to 
avoid any waste, spinach should always be very fresh when pur- 
chased and should be used as soon as possible after it is obtained. 
It may be prepared in a greater number of ways than most of the 
other greens except, perhaps, those used for salads. For instance, 
it is served with entrees of various kinds, is combined with meat, 
ham and spinach being a much used combination, or is made into a 
puree by forcing it through a sieve and then used in the making of 
soup or souffle. Then, again, spinach is often boiled and pressed 
into small cups to form molds like the one shown in Fig. 3. Such 
a mold may be used to garnish a dish of some sort or, as here shown, 
may be garnished with a slice of hard-cooked egg. When spinach 
is used in any of these ways, it should first be cooked according to 
the directions given for the preparation of greens in Art. 3. 




Fig. 3 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



13. Spinach Souffle. — The puree that is made hy forcing 
boiled spinach through a sieve may be used in a variety of ways, but 
none of these is more satisfactory than spinach souffle. When made 
according to the accompanying recipe, spinach souffle will be found 
to be appetizing as well as nourishing. 

Spinach Souffle 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter ^ c. hot milk 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. spinach puree 

1 tsp. salt 2 egg whites 
Dash of pepper 

Melt the butter, add the flour, salt, pepper, and hot milk, and stir 
in the spinach puree. Beat the egg whites stiff and fold them into 
the mixture. Grease individual baking dishes or a large baking dish 
and fill two-thirds full with the mixture. Place in a pan of hot water 
and bake in a slow oven until firm, or for about 20 or 30 minutes. 



14. Splnacli Royal. — A very attractive dish can be made by 
combining spinach with toast, hard-cooked egg, and lemon in the 




Fig. 4 

manner shown in Fig. 4. This dish is known as spinach royal, and 
because of the additional ingredients it is nutritious as well as 

palatable. 

Spinach Royal 
(Sufficient to Serve Four) 

i tsp. pepper 



^ pk. spinach 

i c. water 
1^ tsp. salt 

3 Tb. bacon fat or butter 
3 Tb. flour 



Triangular pieces of toast 
2 hard-cooked eggs 
1 lemon 



8 VEGETABLES § 15 

Look the spinach over carefully and remove all roots and dead 
leaves. Cut the stalks apart and wash them thoroughly several 
times in fresh, clean water to remove the sand and dirt, lifting the 
spinach out of the water each time instead of pouring the water off. 
Put the spinach into a saucepan with the water. Stir frequently until 
the spinach is wilted and there is sufficient water to boil it. Add 
1 teaspoonful of the salt and cook until the leaves are very tender, 
or for about 15 or 20 minutes. Drain off all but about i cupful of 
the liquid. Melt the fat in a frying pan, stir the flour into it, brown 
to a golden brown, and then add the spinach, pepper, and remaining 
salt. Stir and cook until the flour has thickened and mixed well with 
the spinach. Turn out in a mound on a platter and place the pieces 
of toast around the spinach as shown. Slice the hard-cooked eggs, 
cut the lemon into any desirable shape, and use these to garnish the 
platter. In serving this dish, put a spoonful of spinach on a piece 
of toast and serve a slice or two of egg and lemon with each portion. 

15. Creamed Spinacli. — After spinach has been boiled until 
it is tender, it may be made more appetizing by combining it with a 
well-flavored cream sauce, according to the accompanying directions. 

Creamed Spinach 
(SufBcient to Serve Four) 

i pk. spinach i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. ham or bacon fat Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour f c. milk 

Boil the spinach according to the directions given in Art. 3. Melt 
the fat in a frying pan, add the flour, salt, pepper, and milk, and stir 
until the flour thickens. Chop the cooked spinach and add it to 
the hot dressing. Stir and cook until the two are well blended. 
Serve hot. 



"WATERCRESS AND PARSLEY 

16. Watercress and parsley are two herbs, or greens, that 
are used considerably for garnishing and flavoring other dishes. 
These greens are shown in Fig. 5, that at the left being watercress 
and that at the right parsley. 

17. Watercress, which is commonly known as peppercress, 
usually grows wild in beds along the banks of springs or clear, cool 
streams. A few varieties, however, are cultivated, and these are 
grown in dry soil and known as upland cress. It is a very prolific 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



herb, and may be obtained from early spring until late in the fall ; 
in fact, it does not freeze easily and is sometimes found in early 
winter along the swiftly flowing streams that are not frozen over. 
Watercress may be used whenever it can be procured, but it is not 
very desirable when in blossom. Its chief use is to garnish salads 
and other dishes, but it may also be cooked and served hot as a 
green. In such an event, its cooking is accomplished in the same 
way as that of other greens. 

18. Parsley, while classifieu as a green vegetable, is perhaps not 
in the true sense of the word a real vegetable, since it is used for 
only two purposes, and in neither of these is it served cooked or raw 




Fig. 5 

as an exclusive article of diet. The most important use of parsley 
is perhaps that of flavoring. It is added to soups, sauces, and 
various kinds of cooked vegetables in order to impart additional 
flavor. In such cases, it should be chopped very fine in order that 
all possible flavor may be extracted from it. Parsley may also be 
dried before it is used for this purpose, provided it must be kept for 
any length of time. The other use of parsley is that of garnishing. 
It is often used in small sprays to garnish a roast of meat, a steak, 
chops, fish, or some baked, fried, or sauted vegetable. Sometimes it 
is chopped very fine and placed around the edge of a patty shell, a 
croustade, a timbale case, or a piece of toast upon which food is 
served. Parsley may be eaten when it is served as a garnish if its 
flavor is found to be agreeable to the taste. 



10 VEGETABLES § 15 



JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES AND THEIR 
PREPARATION 

19. Jerusalem articliokes are tubers belonging to the sun- 
flower family. In appearance they resemble potatoes to some extent, 
but, as a rule, they are neither so large nor so smooth. The inside tex- 
ture of this vegetable is more moist and not so mealy as that of the 
Irish potato. Jerusalem artichokes are easy to grow and are very 
prolific, so that if any one is fond of them they will be found to be 
a profitable crop. For table use, they are prepared in much the same 
way as potatoes. 

20. Creamed Articliokes. — A common method of preparing 
Jerusalem artichokes is to cream them. Wash and peel the desired 
number of artichokes and cut them into ^-inch dice. Put these to 
cook, in boiling salted water and cook until tender enough to be 
pierced with a fork. Drain off the water and dress with hot medium 
white sauce. Serve hot. 

21. Buttered Artichokes. — Another satisfactory way in 
which to prepare Jerusalem artichokes is to dress them with butter. 
Wash and peel the required number of artichokes and cut them into 
slices. Put these to cook in boiling salted water and cook until 
tender enough to be pierced with a fork. Drain oflf the water and 
dress with melted butter to which has been added a little chopped 
parsley. Serve hot. 



KOHLRABI AND ITS PREPARATION 

22. Kohlrabi is a variety of cabbage having a turnip-shaped 
siem. On account of its shape it is often called turnip cabbage. 
The edible part of kohlrabi is the enlarged stem, which has the 
flavor of both turnip and cabbage. The stems of the leaves are 
attached to the enlarged portion that is used for food, and these 
must be removed in the preparation of the vegetable. Kohlrabi is 
not a perishable vegetable and therefore stands storage very well. 
For market, it is usually placed wf7)unches and tied as are beets and 
carrots. In food value, this -veafetable, like cabbage, is somewhat 
low. The food value it does h^e is carbohydrate in the form of 
sugar. 



§15 VEGETABLES'^ 

23. After the stems of the leaves have been cut off, the kohlrabi 
should be washed and then pared to remove the outer skin. It is 
usually diced or sliced thin, and then cooked and dressed in any 
desirable way. This vegetable, like cabbage, cauliflower, etc., should 
be cooked with the cover removed from the kettle, in order to allow 
some of the flavor to escape in the steam. Kohlrabi that is old or 
that has been in storage for some time develops woody portions as 
do turnips, beets, and other winter vegetables, and must therefore 
be cooked sufficiently long to make it palatable. 

24. Boiled Kohlralxi. — Persons fond of kohlrabi as a vege- 
table will undoubtedly prefer it merely boiled and flavored with 
butter, pepper, and salt. When it is to be cooked in this way, prepare 
it in the manner just explained. Then put it on to cook in sufficient 
boiling salted water to cover it well, and allow it to cook with the 
cover removed until it can be easily pierced with a fork. When 
sufficiently cooked, pour off the water, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and add 1 tablespoonful of butter for each pint of kohlrabi 
cooked. Serve hot. 

25. Mashed Kohlrabi. — As turnips and potatoes are often 
boiled and then mashed, so kohlrabi makes a very appetizing dish 
when prepared in this way. Prepare the kohlrabi and cook it by 
boiling. When it has cooked soft, drain oflF the water and mash 
with a wooden or a wire potato masher. Season with salt and 
pepper, and add 1 tablespoonful of butter for each pint of cooked 
vegetable. Serve hot. 

26. Creamed Kohlrabi. — The preparation of kohlrabi can be 
varied by serving it with a cream sauce. Such a sauce also increases 
the food value of this vegetable by supplying the substances in which 
it is low. 

Creamed Kohlrabi 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. diced kohlrabi i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. milk 

Cook the kohlrabi in boiling salted water until tender and then 
drain the water from it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, 
salt, and pepper, and into this stir the hot milk. Cook until the sauce 
has thickened. Then pour it over the kohlrabi and reheat. Serve 
hot. 



12 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



LENTILS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

27. Lentils are the flattish, circular, dried seeds of an annual 
vine grown chiefly in Europe and Asia. They belong to the class of 
vegetables known as legumes, and are therefore high in protein in 
the form of legumin. They also contain a large amount of carbo- 
hydrate in the form of starch and are high in mineral salts. Because 
of their high food value, which is somewhat over 1,600 calories to 
the pound, they are a valuable food in the diet, particularly as a meat 
substitute. Consequently, when lentils can be obtained at a reason- 
able price, it is wise to make considerable use of them. 

There are three varieties of lentils, yellow, red, and black, and 
they resemble split peas in appearance, as will be observed from 
Fig. 6, which shows a panful of dried lentils. They have a distinc- 
tive flavor that is agree- 
able to most persons. 
However, like other 
dried legumes, long 
cooking is required to 
make them tender and 
palatable. 

28. Cooking of 
Lentils. — In general, 
jfjg g the preparation of lentils 

is similar to that of dried 
beans, the cooking of which is now thoroughly understood. They 
may be put on to cook immediately after they are washed, but, as 
in the case of dried beans, their cooking may be hastened if they are 
first softened by soaking them in cold water for 8 to 12 hours. At 
the end of this time, it is advisable to parboil the lentils for about 
10 or 15 minutes, or until their outer skins begin to crack, in water 
to which a pinch of soda has been added. This water being poured 
off, the lentils should be washed and then put to cook in fresh water 
to which 1 teaspoonf ul of salt is added for each quart of water used. 
Like beans, the lentils should be cooked slowly until they are soft 
enough to crush between the fingers. With these principles for the 
cooking of lentils well in mind, the housewife will have no difficulty 
in preparing this vegetable, for almost any of the recipes given for 
dried beans may be used with lentils substituted for the beans. 




§ 15 VEGETABLES 13 

29. Lentil Puff. — A decided change from the usual ways of 
preparing lentils can be had by making lentil puff. Black lentils are 
used for this preparation, and they are made into a puree before 
being used in the puff. If the accompanying recipe is carefully 
followed, a most appetizing, as well as nutritious, dish will be the 
result. 

Lentil Puff 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

li c. lentil puree 1^ tsp. salt 

li c. riced potatoes i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. butter 2 eggs 

i c. milk 
Soak the lentils overnight in water that contains a pinch of soda, 
parboil them for about 10 minutes, and pour off the water. Put 
them to cook in cold water and cook until they are tender, allowing 
the water to evaporate completely, if possible, so that the puree made 
from them will be dry. However, if any water remains when the len- 
tils are done, pour it off and use it for soup or sauce. Make the puree 
by forcing the cooked lentils through a colander. If it is found to 
be too wet, less milk can be used than the recipe calls for. Cook 
several potatoes and rice them by forcing them through a colander 
or a ricer. Combine the lentils and potatoes, and to this mixture 
add the butter, milk, salt, and pepper. Separate the eggs, and beat 
the yolks slightly and the whites until stiff. Stir the yolks into the 
mixture and, just before putting the puff into the oven, fold in the 
whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish, set in the oven, and bake 
until the puff is set and the surface is brown. Serve hot. 



MUSHROOMS AND THEIR PREPARATION 
30. Mushrooms are not a vegetable ; still they are included in 
this Section because they are used like a vegetable. In reality, they 
are a fungus growth containing no chlorophyl, or green coloring 
matter, and, as shown in Fig. 7, consisting of an erect stalk that 
supports a cap-like expansion. They occur in many varieties, both 
poisonous and non-poisonous. The non-poisonous, or edible, mush- 
rooms are found on rich, moist pastures all over the world and they 
are also very frequently cultivated. They may be collected in almost 
any locality, but no person who is not perfectly familiar with their 
characteristics and therefore able to judge the non-poisonous kinds 
from the poisonous should attempt to gather them. Fresh mush- 

WI-C3-U 



14 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



rooms can usually be found in the markets, but as they are expensive, 
they should be considered a luxury and used only occasionally. 
Instead, some of the small canned varieties, which are usually 
satisfactory for most purposes, should be used when mushrooms are 
desired and the wild ones cannot be secured. 

31. In food value, mushrooms are not very high, being about 
equal to beets or carrots in this respect ; but they have a higher per- 
centage of protein than these vegetables and they contain extractives 
similar to those found in meat. To increase their food value, mush- 
rooms are often combined with other foods, such as peas, chestnuts, 
diced meats, and fowl, and made into dishes of various sorts. Then, 
again, they are served as a garnish with steaks and other meat 
dishes. In short, if they can be secured from the surrounding 

neighborhood or the 
price is not prohibitive, 
they should be used in 
the many excellent ways 
that are devised for their 
preparation. 

32. Preparation 
for CooMng'. — To pre- 
p a r e mushrooms for 
cooking, clean them by 
brushing them carefully 
with a soft brush, by 
scraping the surface, and, in some cases, by removing the stems. 
Do not, however, throw the stems away, for they may be used as 
well as the caps. If the mushrooms are found to be tough, the skin 
should be peeled off. After being thus prepared, mushrooms may be 
cooked in various ways, as is explained in the accompanying recipes. 

33. Broiled Mushrooms. — One of the simplest methods of 
cooking mushrooms is to broil them. This may be done either by 
exposing them directly to the heat or by pan-broiling them. In this 
recipe, only the caps are used. 

Clean the mushrooms that are to be broiled and remove the stems. 
Place the caps in a broiler that has been greased or in a slightly 
greased frying pan. Brown them on one side, then turn them and 
brown them on the other side. Remove to a platter, dot with butter, 
season with salt and pepper, and serve. 



H 


H 


^^1 


^ 


^v 




4 


BiS 


^R " ''^H^K^^'w^^^^Hfe 


^ 


^^_^^B 


S^^F 




— ***'^^ 



Fig. 7 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



15 



34. Stewed Mushrooms. — Another very simple way in which 
to cook mushrooms is to stew them and then serve them on toast. 
When prepared by this method, both the stems and the caps are 
utilized. 

Clean the mushrooms and cut both the caps and the stems into 
small pieces. Cook until tender in sufficient water, stock, or milk to 
cover them well, and then season with salt and pepper. To the liquid 
that remains, add enough flour to thicken it slightly. Serve on toast. 

35. Sauted Mushrooms. — ^When mushrooms are sauted, they 
are often used with other dishes, particularly broiled steak, to 
improve the flavor and give variety. In fact, steak smothered with 
mushrooms is considered a luxury. However, sauted mushrooms 
are very frequently served alone or, together with a sauce made 
from the fat in which they are cooked, they are served on toast. 

Clean the mushrooms, remove the stems, and dredge both stems 
and caps with flour. Melt fat in the frying pan and place the 
dredged mushrooms in it. Saute until brown on both sides and 
season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Serve in any desired 
manner. If sauce is desired, add 
water or stock to the flour and 
fat that remain in the frying pan, 
and allow this to cook for a few 
minutes. 

36. Creamed Mushrooms 
and Chestnuts. — N o more 
delightful combination can be 
imagined than mushrooms and 
chestnuts. When combined with 
a cream sauce and served in 
patty shells or timbale cases, a 




Fig. 8 



dish suitable for the daintiest meal is the result. Another very 
attractive way in which to serve this combination is to place it in a 
baking dish, or, as shown in Fig. 8, in individual baking dishes, cover 
it with a layer of biscuit or pastry crust, bake, and serve it as a pie. 

Creamed Mushrooms and Chestnuts 

(SuiEcient to Serve Eight) 

14 c. stewed chestnuts H tsp. salt 
1^ c. stewed mushrooms i tsp. pepper 

3 Tb. butter l^c. milk 
3 Tb. flour 



16 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



Remove the shells from the required number of Italian chestnuts 
and cook the nut meats in boiling water until tender. Peel off the 
skins and break the chestnuts into pieces. If fresh mushrooms are 
used, stew them in boiling water until tender. Cut the stewed or 
canned mushrooms into pieces of the same size as the chestnuts, and 
mix the two together. Make a cream sauce by melting the butter, 
adding the flour, salt, and pepper, and stirring in the hot milk. Cook 
until the mixture thickens, pour it over the chestnuts and mushrooms, 
and serve in any of the ways suggested. 



OKRA AND ITS PREPARATION 

37. Okra is a fruit vegetable consisting of a green pod that is 
several inches long, pointed at one end, and filled with seeds. Fig. 9 

shows okra pods attached 
to the herb of which they 
are a part. Although okra 
originated in Africa, it is 
for the most part grown in 
the southern section of the 
United States. However, 
canned okra may be ob- 
tained almost anywhere. 
Okra is low in food value, 
being only slightly higher 
than cabbage and most of 
the greens; nevertheless, it 
is liked by many persons. 
It is of a mucilaginous, or 
gummy, consistency, and if 
it is not properly cooked it 
becomes very slimy and is 
then decidedly unpleasant. 
Because of its gummy 
nature, it helps to thicken 
any dish to which it is 
added. Probably its chief use is as an ingredient in soups, when it 
is known as gumbo. Chicken gumbo soup is one of the most popular 
dishes of this kind. 




Fig. 9 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 17 

The preliminary preparation of okra is the same as that of most 
other vegetables; that is, the pods should be washed, the stems 
removed, and the cleaned pods then cooked in sufficient boiling 
salted water to cover them well. 

38. Stewed Okra. — The simplest way in which to prepare okra 
is to stew it. When seasoned well with salt, pepper, and butter, 
stewed okra finds much favor with those who care for this vegetable. 

Select the required number of okra pods and put them on to cook 
in enough boiling salted water to cover them well. Cook until the 
pods are soft enough to be easily pierced with a fork. Season with 
pepper and, if necessary, additional salt, and add 1 tablespoonful of 
butter for each four persons to be served. 

39. Okra Witli Tomatoes. — If one does not desire a dish 
made entirely of okra, it may be combined with tomatoes. Such a 
combination, seasoned well and flavored with ham or bacon fat, 
makes a very tasty dish. 

Okra With Tomatoes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

14 c. stewed or canned okra ^ tsp. pepper 

l| c. stewed or canned tomatoes 2 Tb. ham or bacon fat 
1 J tsp. salt 
Heat the okra and tomatoes together in a saucepan and add the 

salt, pepper, and ham or bacon fat. Cook for 5 or 10 minutes or 

until well blended. Serve hot. 



ONIONS AND THEIR PREPARATION 



VARIETIES OF THE ONION PAMIIiY 

40. Onions are the chief commercial vegetable of the bulb 
crops. They have been cultivated from the earliest times, their 
native country being Central Asia. Closely allied to the onion are 
several other bulb vegetables, including garlic, shallots, leeks, and 
chives, all of which are used more extensively for flavoring dishes 
than for any other purpose. Fig. 10 shows several varieties of this 
family, the group of three in the upper right corner being garlic; 
the bunch in the lower right corner, leeks; the bunch in the lower 
left corner, green onions ; and the remainder of those shown in the 



18 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



illustration, dififerent varieties of dried onions, that is, onions that 
have been allowed to mature. 

41. This entire class of food is characterized by a typical, vola- 
tile oil, which in most cases is so strong as to be somewhat irritating 
and which causes the vegetable to disagree with many persons. This 
flavor, however, can be almost entirely dissipated by cooking, so that 
many persons who cannot eat the various members of the onion fam- 
ily raw can tolerate them cooked. In food value, which is found prin- 
cipally as carbohydrate in the form of sugar, this class of foods is 
not very high, being about the same as carrots, beets, and other root 
vegetables. Some persons believe that onions have wonderful 
medicinal value in curing colds and preventing them, but there is 
really no foundation for such a belief. 

42. Onions. — As has been pointed out, onions are of two gen- 
eral varieties, dried and green. Dried onions, as shown in Fig. 10, 




Fig. 10 

are those which have been allowed to grow to maturity and have 
then been cured, or dried, to a certain extent. Such onions are in 
demand at all seasons. Green onions, also shown in Fig. 10, are 
those which are pulled, or taken out of the ground, before they have 
matured and are eaten while fresh. They are especially popular in 
the spring, although they have a rather long season. Each of these 
classes has many varieties, which vary in flavor and in color, some 
of the dried ones being yellow, some red, and others white. All 
dried onions have excellent keeping qualities, so, after purchasing, 
no special care need be given to them except to store them in a 
comparatively cool, dry place. Deterioration is due chiefly to sprout- 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



19 



ing, for as soon as the new plant begins to grow from the center of 
the onion, the remainder becomes soh and loses much of its flavor. 
The green, immature onions, however, will not keep for any length 
of time, and in order to keep them fresh until they are used, they 
must be stored in a cool, damp place. 

43. Garlic. — The variety of onion known as garlic is very 
much desired by the people of southern Europe, where it originated. 
As Fig. 10 shows, it resembles the onion in appearance, but it con- 
sists of several parts, or small bulbs, called cloves, which are encased 
in a covering of thin white skin. Garlic has a very strong penetrat- 
ing odor and a biting taste 
that resemble the odor and 
taste of onion, but that are 
much ranker. It is little 
used by Americans except 
as a flavoring for salads 
and various kinds of highly 
seasoned meats. In reality, 
a very small amount of 
garlic is sufficient to lend 
enough flavor, and so the 
bowl in which a salad is 
served is often merely 
rubbed with garlic before 
the salad is put into it. No 
difficulty will be experienced in recognizing garlic in the markets, 
for here it is found in long strings that are made by braiding the dry 
stems together. 

44. Sballots. — Closely allied to garlic are shallots, which are 
native to Syria, where they still grow wild. They are said to have 
been brought into Europe by the Crusaders. The bulbs of this vege- 
table are similar to those of garlic, being compound in form, but 
instead of being enclosed in a thin covering, they are separate when 
mature, as Fig. 11 shows. Shallots have a strong flavor, but it is 
not so rank as that of garlic, nor does the odor remain in the mouth 
so long as that of onion. Many persons like shallots for flavoring 
stews, soups, salads, and pickles. 

45. Leeks. — ^Another member of the onion family that is more 
highly prized and more extensively raised in Europe than in the 




Fig. 11 



20 VEGETABLES § 1-5 

United States is leeks. As Fig. 10 shows, leeks do not produce a 
bulb as do onions. In this vegetable, the lower parts of the leaves 
grow close together and form a bulb-like stem, or neck, which is 
fairly solid and which constitutes the edible part. The odor and 
flavor of leeks are similar to those of onions, but they are somewhat 
weaker. The fleshy stem may be bleached by banking it with earth, 
and when this is done, the flavor becomes more mild and the texture 
more tender than in the onion bulb. Like shallots, leeks are used to 
flavor stews, soups, and similar foods. 

46. Cliives. — The member of the onion family known as chives 
is a small plant whose roots remain in the ground for many years 
and produce year after year dense tufts of slender, hoUow leaves. 
These leaves grow to a height of about 6 or 8 inches and resemble 
the tops of onions except that they are much smaller. Chives, which 
have a more delicate flavor than onions, are much used for flavoring 
soup, stews, salads, meats, and other vegetables and as a garnish 
for salads. When used for any of these purposes, they are cut into 
tiny pieces. 

PREPARATIOIV OF OjriONS 

47. Onions for Flavoring:. — ^When only the flavor of onions 
is desired in a salad or a cooked dish of some sort, such as a dressing 
for fowl, hash, or any similar combination of food ingredients, the 
onion should be added in the form of juice and pulp rather than in 
pieces. Then it will not be possible to observe the onion when it is 
mixed with the food nor to come across small pieces of it when the 
food is eaten. To prepare an onion in this way, peel it, cut ofli a 
crosswise slice, and then grate the onion on a grater over a shallow 
dish. Add the juice and pulp thus obtained to any food that calls 
for onion as a flavoring. 

48. Onions for the Table. — ^When onions are to be used as 
a vegetable for the table, they require cooking, but first of all they 
must be peeled. This is at best a rather unpleasant task, because 
the fumes from the strong volatile oil are irritating to both the eyes 
and the nostrils. However, it may be done more comfortably by 
keeping the onions immersed in cold water during the peeling. 
Remove only the dry outside shells, and, if the onions are large, cut 
them in halves or quarters. However, as the various layers are 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 21 

likely to fall apart when the onion is cut, it is advisable to select 
medium-sized or small onions, for these may be cooked whole. 
After the onions have been peeled, they may be cooked in a variety 
of ways. 

49. Boiled. Onions. — Perhaps the simplest method of cooking 
onions is to boil them. To allow the strong volatile oil to escape 
instead of being reabsorbed by the onions, and thus improve the 
flavor of the onions, the cover should be kept off the vessel while, 
they are cooking. The water in which this vegetable is cooked has 
not a very agreeable flavor, so no use should be made of it. 

Peel the desired number of onions and if necessary cut them into 
halves or quarters. Place them in sufficient boiling water to cover 
well. Cook in an uncovered vessel until tender enough to be easily 
pierced with a fork, but not so soft as to fall apart. Then pour off 
the water, season with more salt, if necessary, and a little pepper, 
and add 1 tablespoonful of butter for each four persons to be served. 
Serve hot. 

50. Creamed Onions. — A cream sauce added to onions makes 
a very appetizing dish. In fact, most persons prefer creamed onions 
to any other method of preparation. 

Creamed Onions 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 pt. stewed onions 1 tsp. salt 

3 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

3 Tb. flour 1^ c. hot milk 

Prepare the onions according to the directions given in Art. 49. 
When they are tender enough to be easily pierced with a fork, 
drain. Melt the butter, and add the flour, salt, pepper, and hot 
milk. Cook until the sauce thickens, pour over the stewed onions, 
heat together for a few minutes, and serve. 

51. Baked Onions. — If variety in the preparation of onions 
is desired, baked onions should be tried. Select medium-sized 
onions, peel them, and then boil them whole in boiling salted water 
until they are almost tender. Drain off the water, place the onions 
in a shallow dish, brush with butter, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Place in a hot oven and bake until brown on one side ; then 
turn them and brown on the other side. Serve hot. 



22 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



52. Stuffed Onions. — When large onions can be secured, a 
very appetizing as well as attractive dish can be prepared by stuffing 



7 






■*"-o?^^. 


"""MMifll 




\t 


:»- 







Fig. 12 

them and then baking them brown. Onions cooked in this way 
will appear as shown in Fig. 12. 

Stuffed Onions 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 large onions ^ tsp. pepper 

1 c. dried bread crumbs J tsp. celery salt 

2 Tb. butter J c. milk 
i tsp. salt 

Peel the onions and cook them in boiling salted water until almost 
tender. Remove from the water and take out the inner portions of 
the onions, leaving the outside layers in the shape of a cup. Chop 
the portions of the onions which have been removed and mix 
with the bread crumbs. Melt the butter, add to it the chopped onion, 
bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and celery salt, and stir all together for 
a few minutes over the flame. Add the milk, and if the ^ cupful is 
not sufficient to make the stuffing moist, add more. Fill the onion 
shells with the stuffing, place in a hot oven, and bake until brown. 
Serve immediately. 



PARSNIPS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

53. Parsnips are an important root vegetable, being closely 
allied to carrots. They are' used to a certain extent during the 
summer when they are immature, but generally they are allowed 
to mature so that they may be stored for use as a winter vegetable. 
Parsnips have an advantage over many vegetables in that they have 
excellent keeping qualities and are particularly hardy, being able to 
withstand considerable freezing and thawing when they are left in 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 23 

the ground during the winter. However, as they grow older, they 
develop a woody texture, as do beets and turnips, and so at the end 
of the winter require longer cooking than at the beginning. 

54. In food value, parsnips are somewhat higher than other 
root vegetables, containing a large amount of carbohydrate, which 
occurs in the form of sugar. Although they are wholesome and 
nourishing, they have a peculiar, sweetish flavor that is due to the 
volatile oil they contain and is objectionable to some persons. Still, 
those who are fond of this flavor find that parsnips afford an excel- 
lent opportunity to give variety to the diet, for they may be prepared 
in a number of ways, most of which are similar to the ways in which 
carrots are cooked. 

55. In preparing parsnips for cooking, scrape them, if possible, 
instead of peeling them, so as not to waste any of the edible material. 
Then, too, try to obtain medium-sized parsnips, for they will be of 
much better quality than the larger ones. If uneven sizes must be 
used, the larger ones should be cut before being cooked, so that they 
will be similar in size to the smaller ones and therefore cook in the 
same length of time. 

56. Mashed Parsnips. — A very simple way in which to pre- 
pare parsnips is to mash them. Clean and scrape the desired number 
of parsnips and put them to cook in sufficient boiling salted water 
to cover. Cook until tender enough to be pierced with a fork, the 
length of time required to do this depending entirely on the age of 
the parsnips. When tender, drain off the water and force the pars- 
nips through a colander or a sieve. Season with butter, salt, and 
pepper, and serve hot. 

57. Creamed Parsnips, — Parsnips are sometimes cut into 
dice and then served with a cream, sauce. When it is desired to 
prepare them in this way, the accompanying directions should be 
carefully followed. 

Creamed Parsnips 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. diced parsnips i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. flour 1 c. milk 

Clean and scrape the parsnips and cut them into dice i inch in size. 
Put these to cook in sufficient boiling salted water to cover, cook 
until they may be easily pierced with a fork, and then drain. Melt 



24 VEGETABLES § 15 

the butter in a double boiler, and add the flour, salt, and pepper. 
Stir in the hot milk, and cook until the mixture thickens. Pour this 
sauce over the parsnips, heat together for a few minutes, and serve. 

58. Browned Parsnips. — Parsnips that are browned and 
sweetened with sugar seem to meet with greater favor than those 
prepared by other methods. To prepare them in this way, clean 
and scrape the desired number of parsnips, and slice them in thick 
slices, or, if they are small, cut them in halves lengthwise. Put 
them to cook in boiling salted water and cook until they may be easily 
pierced with a fork, but are not tender enough to fall to pieces. 
Melt some fat in a frying pan, and place the slices of cooked pars- 
nips in it. Brown on one side, turn, and then brown on the other. 
Sprinkle with a little sugar and, if necessary, additional salt. Serve. 



PEAS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

59. In addition to beans and lentils, the class of vegetables called 
legumes includes peas, which, both green and dried, are used for 
food. In composition, there is a decided difference between the two 
varieties of peas, the green ones being about equal to green corn in 
food value, and the dried ones having a food value nearly four times 
as great. In each case, the food substance in the greatest amount is 
in the form of carbohydrate. In green peas, this is in the form of 
sugar, while in dried ones it is changed into starch. Peas also con- 
tain protein in the form of legumin, there being three times as much 
of this substance in dried peas as in green ones. The amount found 
in green peas is sufficient to be of importance in the diet, but the 
percentage of this substance is so great in dried peas that they may 
be used very satisfactorily as a meat substitute. 

60. Green Peas. — Numerous varieties of green peas are found 
on the market. A few of them are cooked in the pods, especially 
when the peas are very young, and are eaten pods and all, just as are 
string beans. Most of them, however, are allowed to mature further 
and only the peas are eaten, the shelKbeing discarded. 

When green peas are purchased, they are always found in the 
pods. For the peas to be most satisfactory, the pods should be 
fresh and green and should appear to be well filled. Flat-looking 
pods mean that the peas have not matured sufficiently. After being 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 25 

purchased, the peas should not be removed from the pods until they 
are to be cooked. However, if it is necessary that they stand for 
any length of time after they are shelled, they should be kept in a 
cool place in order to prevent them from shriveling. Their cooking 
is similar to that of any other fresh vegetable ; that is> they should be 
cooked in boiling salted water in a covered vessel until they are 
tender enough to be easily crushed between the fingers or pierced 
with a fork. With this preliminary preparation, they may be dressed 
in any desirable manner, 

61. Dried Peas. — Dried peas, because of their nature, require 
a different kind of preparation from green peas. In fact, their 
cooking is similar to that of dried beans. They require long slow 
cooking and are improved if they are first parboiled in water to 
which a pinch of soda has been added. They are not used exten- 
sively except in the making of soups or occasionally for a puree or a 
souffle, but as they are very high in food value and can be used as 
a meat substitute, they should have a prominent place in the dietary 
of most families. Many of the ways in which dried beans and lentils 
are prepared are fully as applicable in the case of dried peas. 

62. Green Peas With Butter. — ^When peas are young and 
tender, no more appetizing way to prepare them can be found than 
to boil them and then serve them with butter. 

Select fresh green peas with full pods, wash in cold water, and 
remove the peas from the shells. Put to cook in enough boiling 
salted water to cover well, and cook until tender. Pour off all but 
a small amount of the water, using the part poured off for making 
soup or sauce. Add 1 tablespoonful of butter for each four persons 
to be served, and season with additional salt if necessary and a dash 
of pepper. Serve hot. 

63. Green Peas English. Style. — If the flavor of mint is 
agreeable, green peas prepared English style will undoubtedly find 
favor. Cook them as for green peas with butter, but, at the time the 
butter is added, add 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped fresh mint. 
Season with additional salt, if necessary, and pepper, allow all to 
simmer together for a few minutes, and serve. 

64. Creamed. Peas. — A cream sauce adds considerable food 
value and flavor to green peas. Peas prepared in this way may be 
served plain, but they can be made very attractive by serving them 



26 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



in croustades, as shown in Fig. 13. As already learned, cronstades 
are cases made from large pieces of bread that are cut any desired 




Fig. 13 

shape, hollowed out, and then toasted in a hot oven or on a broiler 
or fried in deep fat until crisp. 

Creamed Peas 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. shelled green peas Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. butter | c. water from peas 

2 Tb. flour I c. milk 

^ tsp. salt 
Cook the peas in boiling salted water until tender, and then drain 
the water from them, retaining ^ cupful for the sauce. Melt the 
butter, add the flour, salt, and pepper, and stir in the hot liquids. 
Cook until the flour has thickened and then pour over the peas. 
Serve hot, either plain or in croustades. 

65. Peas in Turnip Cups.- — A somewhat unusual dish can be 
prepared by making cups out of turnips, filling them with peas, and 
then pouring a cream sauce over the peas. Besides being attractive, 
this combination makes a very palatable vegetable dish. 

Select a sufficient number of medium-sized white turnips. AA^ash 
them thoroughly, and then hollow out the inside of each, leaving 
cup-shaped shells about i inch thick. Cook these shells in boiling 
salted water until tender, but not tender enough to break into pieces, 
and remove from the water. Then, according to the directions given 
in Art. 60, cook enough gr€en peas to fill the cups. When tender, 
fill the cups with the peas and over them pour a medium white 
sauce. Serve hot. 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 27 

66. Peas Puree. — Many persons who cannot eat peas because 
of the coarse outside skins are able to digest them in the form of a 
puree. To prepare them in this way, boil fresh peas in the manner 
explained in Art. 60. When they are tender, force them through 
a puree sieve or a fine-mesh wire sieve. The pulp will pass through 
the sieve, but the coarse skins will remain. The puree thus made 
may be used for soup or in the making of a souffle. 

67. Peas Souffle. — Nothing in the way of peas is more appe- 
tizing and at the same time more easily digested than peas souffle. 
This may be baked in a large baking dish, or it may be divided and 
baked in individual baking dishes. 

Peas SouFFLfi 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter i tsp. salt 

2 Tb. flour Dash of pepper 

i c. milk 2 eggs 
1 c. peas puree 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and add the heated milk. Cook 
until the mixture thickens and then add the peas puree, salt, and 
pepper. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks and add them to the mix- 
ture, and then fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour into a well- 
greased baking dish or individual baking dishes, place in a pan of 
hot water, and bake in a slow oven until set, or for 30 or 40 minutes. 
Serve at once. 



PEPPERS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

68. Peppers are one of the fruit vegetables. Some varieties of 
them are dried and used as a condiment, that is, to season or give 
relish to food, but as they are never used as a vegetable, they are 
not included here. It is the sweet varieties of peppers which are 
used as vegetables and to which reference is made in these discus- 
sions. They are valuable chiefly for two reasons : to flavor various 
kinds of dishes, 'such as entrees, salads, etc., and to make a dish 
more attractive in appearance because of the contrast in color they 
afford. In food value, they are about equal to the various greens, 
but as a rule such small quantities of them are eaten that they cannot 
be regarded as a food. 

69. Stuffed Peppers. — The usual way of preparing peppers 
as a vegetable is to stuff them and then bake them, when they will 



28 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



appear as in Fig. 14. The stuffing may be made of various kinds of 
material, such as pieces of meat, vegetables, cereals, etc., and so 




Fig. 14 
affords an excellent way to utilize left-overs of any of these foods. 
Two recipes for stuffing are here given, and either one may be used 
with equally good results. 

To prepare peppers for stuffing, wash them in cold water and 
remove the tops by cutting around the peppers a short distance from 
the stem. Remove the pulp and seeds from the inside, and wash 
the peppers thoroughly to make sure that no loose seeds remain. 
Fill with the desired stuffing, place in a shallow pan with a small 
amount of water, and bake until the peppers are soft enough to be 
pierced with a fork. The water permits the peppers to steam during 
the first part of the cooking. Serve hot. 

Stuffing No. 1 

(Sufficient for Six Peppers) 

2 Tb, ham fat U c. steamed rice 

1 small chopped onion | c. bread crumbs 

i tsp. salt I c. finely chopped boiled ham 

Dash of pepper Milk 

Melt the fat in a frying pan, add the onion, salt, and pepper, and 
heat together for several minutes. Add the rice, bread crumbs, and 
ham, and moisten with milk until the mixture is of the right con- 
sistency. Use to fill the peppers. 

Stuffing No. 2 
(Sufficient for Six Peppers) 

2 Tb. butter 2 c. stale bread crumbs 

1 onion, chopped 2 Tb. chopped parsley 

i tsp. salt 1 tsp. celery salt 

Dash of pepper Milk 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 29 

Melt the butter in a frying pan, add the chopped onion, salt, and 
pepper, and heat together. To this add the bread crumbs, chopped 
parsley, and celery salt, and moisten with enough milk to make the 
stuffing of the right consistency. Use to stuff peppers. 



POTATOES AND THEIR PREPARATION 

WHITE POTATOES 

70. "White potatoes, popularly called Irish potatoes because 
they are a staple food in Ireland, belong to the class of tuber vege- 
tables. They form such an extensive part of the diets of the major- 
ity of people that they are generally considered the most important 
vegetable used by civilized man. They are usually roundish or 
oblong in shape and have a whitish interior and a darker colored skin. 

71. Food Value of Potatoes. — In food value, Irish potatoes 
are comparatively high, being in this respect about two and one-half 
times as great as an equal weight of cabbage, but not quite twice as 
great as the various root vegetables, such as carrots, parsnips, etc. 
The largest amount of this food value occurs as carbohydrate in the 
form of starch, there being almost no fat and very little protein in 
potatoes. The starch granules of potatoes are larger than the starch 
granules of any of the cereals, the class of foods highest in this food 
substance, and it is the proper cooking of this starch that makes 
potatoes dry and mealy. Potatoes also contain a large amount of 
mineral salts, much of which lies directly under the skin. Therefore, 
the most economical way in which to prepare potatoes is to cook 
them with the skins on, for then all of the mineral salts are retained 
and none of the material is wasted. 

72. Selection of Potatoes. — The new potato crop begins to 
come into the market during the summer, when potatoes are espe- 
cially appetizing. However, as potatoes can be easily stored and 
kept very well for a considerable time, they form a large part of the 
winter food supply. If there is sufficient storage space, it is a wise 
plan to buy a large enough supply of potatoes in the fall to last for 
several months and then to store them for the winter. However, 
when this is done, care should be taken in the selection. 

In the first place, the outside skin should be smooth and not scaly. 
Then, if possible, potatoes of medium size should be selected, rather 

WI-C»-M 



30 VEGETABLES § 15 

than small ones or large ones. The small ones are not so satis- 
factory, because of the greater proportion of waste in peeling, while 
the very large ones are apt to have a hollow space in the center. To 
judge the quality of potatoes, a few of those to be purchased should 
be secured and cooked before a large number of them are bought. 
The soil and climatic conditions affect the quality of potatoes to such 
an extent that a particular kind of potato which may have been 
excellent last year may be entirely different in quality this year. A 
housewife cannot, therefore, be guided entirely by her previous 
knowledge of a certain kind of potato. 

73. Care of Potatoes. — Potatoes bought in quantity should 
be kept in a cool place and should be excluded from the light. Such 
care will usually prevent them from discoloring and sprouting. In 
case they should sprout, the sprouts should be removed at once, for 
the potatoes will deteriorate rapidly with such a growth. If the 
potatoes freeze, they may be thawed by putting them in cold water. 
Such potatoes, which are characterized by a peculiar sweetish taste, 
should be used as soon as possible after being thawed. 

74. Preparation of Potatoes. — ^As has already been 
explained, the most economical way in which to cook potatoes is 
with the skins on. However, when it is desired to remove the skins, 
they should be taken off as thinly as possible. New potatoes may be 
scraped, but completely matured potatoes that have been out of the 
ground for some time do not scrape easily and so should be pared 
thinly. 

Potatoes lend themselves to various methods of cookery, and this 
is well, for although this is a food of which most persons do not 
tire easily, variety in the preparation of a vegetable so commonly 
used as the Irish potato is very much to be desired, ^'\^hen cooked 
in the skins, potatoes may be boiled, baked, or steamed. When the 
skins are removed, potatoes may be cooked in these ways, as well as 
fried, sauted, scalloped, creamed, etc. 

75. Boiled Potatoes. — ^Without doubt, potatoes are cooked 
more often by boiling than by any other method, for besides being 
eaten in this way a great deal, they must first be boiled for many of 
the more elaborate methods of preparation. If the skins are removed 
before boiling, the water in which the potatoes are cooked contains 
a quantity of starch and a great deal of soluble mineral matter that 
are lost from the potatoes. Use should therefore be made of this 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



31 



liquid, it being very satisfactory for soups, sauces, and the liquid 
required in bread making. 

When potatoes are to be boiled, select the desired number of 
medium-sized potatoes, and wash them in cold water. If desired, 
remove the peelings with a sharp paring knife, but if the potatoes 
are to be cooked with the skins on, scrub them thoroughly with a 
vegetable brush in order to remove all dirt. Put to cook in a suffi- 
cient amount of boiling salted water to cover well, and cook until the 
potatoes are tender enough to be easily pierced with a fork. Usually 
the kettle in which potatoes are cooked is covered, but if desired 
they may be cooked in an uncovered vessel. When done, drain the 
water from the potatoes and serve at once or use for some of the 
other methods of preparation. 

76. Mashed Potatoes. — If mashed potatoes are prepared 
properly, they are much relished by the majority of persons. How- 




Fig. 15 

ever, to be most satisfactory, they should be cooked long enough not 
to be lumpy and then, after being mashed and softened with milk, 
they should be beaten until they are light and creamy. 

Peel the desired number of potatoes and boil them according to 
the directions given in Art. 75. When they are tender, remove 
them from the fire and drain off the water. Mash the potatoes with 
a wooden or a wire potato masher, being careful to reduce all 
the particles to a pulpy mass in order to prevent lumps. However, 
the preferable way to mash them is to force them through a ricer, 
when they will appear as shown in Fig. 15, for then, if they are 
thoroughly cooked, there will be no danger of lumps. When they 



32 VEGETABLES § 15 

are sufficiently mashed, season with additional salt, a dash of pepper, 
and a small piece of butter, and add hot milk until they are thinned 
to a mushy consistency, but not too soft to stand up well when 
dropped from a spoon. Then beat the potatoes vigorously with a 
large spoon until they become light and fluffy. Serve at once. 

77. Baked Potatoes. — ^A very nutritious vegetable dish results 
when potatoes are baked. For this method of cooking potatoes, 
those of medium size are better than large ones ; also, if the potatoes 
are uniform in size, all of them will bake in the same length of time. 
It is well to choose for baking, potatoes that are smooth and unblem- 
ished, in order that they may be prepared without cutting the skins. 
As the starchy particles of the potato are cooked by the heated water 
inside the potato, the cooking cannot be done so successfully when 
the skin is cut or marred, for then the water will evaporate. 

Prepare the potatoes by scrubbing them thoroughly; then place 
them on a shallow pan and set them in the oven or place them 
directly on the oven grate. The temperature of the oven is important 
in baking potatoes. If it is too hot, the skins of the potatoes will 
become charred, and if it is not hot enough, too long a time will be 
required for the baking. The temperature found to produce the best 
results is about 400 degrees Fahrenheit, or the same as that for the 
baking of bread. Turn the potatoes once or twice during the baking, 
so that they will bake evenly. Allow them to bake until it is possible 
to pierce them to the center with a fork or they are soft enough to 
dent easily when pinched with the tips of the fingers. The latter is 
the preferable test, for when the potato is pierced, so much of the 
moisture is lost that it is not likely to be of the best quality when 
served. Upon removing from the oven, serve at once. Baked 
potatoes become soggy upon standing. If desired, they may be 
rolled to soften the contents of the shell and then cut open on one 
side, and pepper, salt, and paprika put into the potato. 

The length of time required for baking potatoes is usually 10 to 
15 minutes longer than is necessary to cook potatoes of the same 
size in water. However, the time for baking may be decreased by 
boiling the potatoes for about 5 minutes before they are put in the 
oven. In such an event, the boiling and the baking should be accom- 
plished in about 35 minutes. 

78. Stuffed Potatoes. — An attractive way in which to serve 
iaked potatoes is shown in Fig. 16. After the potatoes are thor- 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



33 



oughly baked, the contents are removed, treated as mashed potatoes, 
and then stuffed into the shells and set in the oven to brown for a 
few minutes. When something different in the way of potatoes is 
desired, stuffed potatoes should be tried. 

Bake the desired number of potatoes until tender. Remove from 
the oven, cut through the skin of each from end to end with a sharp 
knife, and scrape out the contents of the shell. Mash the pulp 
according to the directions given in Art. 76. Then fill the shells 
with the mashed potatoes, allowing the surface to stand up roughly, 
as shown, instead of smoothing it down. Dot each with butter, 
sprinkle a little paprika over the tops, and replace in the oven. Bake 
until the surface is nicely browned and then serve at once. 

79. Browned Potatoes. — ^While not so easy to digest as boiled 
or baked potatoes, browned potatoes offer an opportunity for a 




Fig. 16 



change from the usual ways of preparing this vegetable. They may 
be prepared on the stove or in the oven, but when browned in the 
oven the surface is more likely to be tough. 

Boil the desired number of potatoes, and when they are sufficiently 
tender, drain off the water. If they are to be sauted on the stove, 
melt a small amount of fat in a frying pan, and place the cooked 
potatoes in it. Saute until brown on one side, then turn and brown 
on the other. Season with additional salt, if necessary, and serve. 

In case it is desired to brown them in the oven, put the boiled 
potatoes in a shallow pan and brush them over with butter. Set 
them in a hot oven, allow them to brown on one side, then turn and 
brown them on the other. Season with salt, if necessary, and serve 
at once upon removing from the oven. 



34 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



80. Raw Sauted Potatoes. — If a potato dish suitable for 
supper or luncheon is desired, raw potatoes may be sliced thin, as 
at a, Fig. 17, and then sauted. For this purpose, small potatoes that 
are not suitable for other methods of preparation may be used. 

Peel the potatoes and slice them into thin slices. Melt a small 
amount of fat in a frying pan, place the potatoes in the hot fat, and 
cover the pan. Allow them to steam in this way for 10 to 15 minutes 
and then remove the cover. Brown on one side ; then turn and brown 
on the other. Season with salt and pepper. 




Fig. 17 

81. Hash-Bro'wiied. Potatoes. — A very good way in which 
to use up boiled potatoes is to hash-brown them in the oven. 

Hash-Browned Potatoes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 medium-sized cooked potatoes 2 Tb. butter 

li tsp. salt 3 Tb. milk 

i tsp. pepper 

Slice or chop the cold potatoes, place in a buttered pan, add the salt 
and pepper, melt the butter, and pour it over them. Place in a hot 
oven until nicely browned. Stir, add the milk, and brown again. 
Stir again, brown the third time, and serve. 

82. Potato Patties.- — Mashed potatoes, whether left over or 
boiled and mashed especially for the purpose, may be made up into 
patties and then sauted until brown on both sides. 

Potato Patties 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. mashed potato Fine bread crumbs 

1 egg 



§15 VEGETABLES 35 

To the mashed potatoes that have been well seasoned, add the egg 
and mix thoroughly. Shape into flat, round patties and roll in the 
bread crumbs. Melt fat in a frying pan, place the patties in it, saute 
on one side until brown, and then turn and brown on the other side. 
Serve hot. 

83. French Fried Potatoes. — Many families are deprived of 
French fried potatoes because the majority of housewives think 
they are difficult to prepare. This, however, is not the case, for 
when the procedure is understood nothing is easier. 

Peel the required number of potatoes and cut them into the desired 
shape. Great variety exists in the method of cutting potatoes for 
this purpose. However, the form that is usually thought of when 
French fried potatoes are mentioned is the one obtained by cutting 
the potatoes into pieces like the sections of an orange and then cut- 
ting these sections lengthwise into smaller pieces, like those shown 
at b, Fig. 17. Pieces like those shown at c, called shoestring potatoes, 
are also popular. As soon as cut, in no matter what shape, drop the 
pieces into cold water, but when ready to fry, remove them from the 
water and dry on a clean dry towel. Place in a wire basket and 
lower the basket into a pan of hot fat. Fry until the potatoes are 
nicely browned, remove from the fat, drain, and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Serve at once. 

84. Potatoes au Gratin. — Something a little unusual in the 
way of a potato dish is produced when potatoes are combined with 
cheese, bread crumbs, and a cream sauce to make potatoes au gratin. 
In addition to supplying flavor, these ingredients increase the food 
value of the potatoes so that a highly nutritious dish is the result. 

Potatoes au Gratin 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

3 c. diced cooked potatoes ^ c. grated cheese 
^ c. bread crumbs 1^ c. thin white sauce 

Grease a baking dish, place one half of the potatoes in the bottom 
of the dish, and sprinkle over them one half of the crumbs and then 
one half of the cheese. Put the remainder of the potatoes in the 
dish, sprinkle with the rest of the cheese, pour the hot white sauce 
over all, and place the remaining crumbs on top. Set the dish in a 
hot oven and bake until well heated through and brown on top. 

85. Lyonnalse Potatoes. — ^When sauted potatoes are flavored 
with onion and parsley, they are known as Lyonnaise potatoes. As 



36 VEGETABLES § 15 

they are very appetizing, potatoes prepared in this way are relished 
by most persons. 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

(SuiEcient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter or ham or bacon fat ^ tsp. salt 

1 medium-sized onion, chopped Dash of pepper 

2 Tb. parsley 3 c. diced cooked potatoes 
Melt the fat in a frying pan, and add the onion, parsley, salt, and 

pepper. When the fat is hot, add the potatoes, which should be 
diced, like those shown at d. Fig. 17, and allow them to saute until 
slightly brown. Stir frequently to avoid burning. Serve hot. 

86. Scalloped. Potatoes. — Many vegetables may be scalloped, 
but potatoes seem to lend themselves to this form of preparation 
to good advantage. Potatoes prepared in this way are suitable for 
luncheon, supper, or a home dinner. 

Wash and peel the desired number of potatoes and slice them thin. 
Place a layer in the bottom of a well-greased baking dish, sprinkle 
lightly with flour, salt, and pepper, and dot with butter. Add another 
layer of potatoes, sprinkle again with flour, salt, and pepper, and dot 
with butter. Continue in this way until the dish is filled. Pour a suffi- 
cient quantity of milk over the whole to cover well. Place a cover 
over the dish, set in a hot oven, and bake for about ^ hour. Then 
remove the cover and allow the potatoes to continue baking until 
they can be easily pierced with a fork and the surface is slightly 
brown. Serve hot from the baking dish. 

87. Creamed Potatoes. — ^A very good way in which to utilize 
left-over boiled potatoes is to dice them and then serve them with 
a cream sauce. If no cooked potatoes are on hand and creamed 
potatoes are desired, potatoes may, of course, be boiled especially for 
this purpose. When this is done, it is well to cook the potatoes in 
the skins, for they remain intact better and have a better flavor. 

Cut up potatoes that are to be creamed into half-inch dice, like 
those shown at d, Fig. 17. Make a thin white sauce, pour it over the 
potatoes until they are well moistened, and allow the potatoes to 
simmer in this sauce for a few minutes. If desired, chopped parsley 
may be added to the sauce to improve the flavor. Serve hot. 

88. Potato Balls. — If a potato dish is desired for a meal that 
is to be dainty in every respect, potato balls should be tried. These 
are small balls of uniform size^, like those shown at e. Fig. 17, cut 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



37 




Fig. 18 



from raw potatoes by means of a French cutter, as shown in Fig. 18, 

cooked until tender, and then dressed with a cream sauce or in any 

other way. As will be observed, much of the potato remains after 

all the balls that can be 

cut from it are obtained. 

This should not be 

wasted, but should be 

boiled and then mashed 

or prepared in any other 

desirable way. 

Wash and peel the 
potatoes that are to be 
used, and then from each 
potato cut with a French 
cutter all the balls possi- 
ble. When a sufficient 
number have been ob- 
tained, boil them until 
tender in boiling salted 
water and then drain. Make a thin cream sauce, add the potatoes to 
this, and heat together thoroughly. Serve hot. 

89. Potato Croquettes. — Left-over mashed potatoes can be 
utilized in no better way than to make croquettes. Of course, if 
potato croquettes are desired and no potatoes are on hand, it will be 
necessary to cook potatoes and mash them especially for this pur- 
pose. Croquettes made according to the accompanying recipe will 
be found a delightful addition to the menu. They are often served 
plain, but are much improved by a medium white sauce or a gravy. 

Potato Croquettes 

(SufGcient to Serve Six) 

2 c. mashed potatoes 1 tsp. celery salt 

2 Tb. chopped parsley 2 eggs 
1 Tb. onion juice Dry bread crumbs 

To the mashed potatoes, add the parsley, onion juice, and celery 
salt and mix thoroughly. Beat the eggs slightly, reserve a small 
amount to be diluted with water or milk for dipping the croquettes, 
and add the rest to the potatoes. Shape the mixture into oblong 
croquettes of uniform size and shape. Roll each in the crumbs, then 
in the diluted egg, and again in the crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat 
until an even brown in color. Remove from the fat, drain, and serve. 



38 VEGETABLES § 15 

90. Potato Puff. — Mashed potato combined with egg, seasoned 
well, and baked in the oven makes a very appetizing dish known as 
potato puff. This is suitable for any meal at which potatoes would 
be Served. 

Potato Puff 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. mashed potato 1 egg 

f tsp. celery salt 
To the mashed potato, add the celery salt. Separate the egg, beat 
the yolk, and mix it with the potato. Beat the white stiff and fold 
it into the potato last. Pile into a buttered baking dish, set in a hot 
oven, and bake until the potato is thoroughly heated through and the 
surface is brown. Serve at once. 



SWEET POTATOES 

91. Sweet potatoes are used for practically the same purposes 
as white potatoes, and while these vegetables resemble each other 
in many respects they are not related botanically, sweet potatoes 
being root rather than tuber vegetables. Sweet potatoes are of a 
tropical nature and have been cultivated for hundreds of years in the 
West Indies and Central America. They form a staple article of 
diet in the southern part of the United States, where, on account of 
the warm climate, they are raised abundantly. They are not raised 
in the North ; still they are consumed there in large quantities. After 
maturing, sweet potatoes are collected and dried in kilns before ship- 
ping. While this makes it possible for them to keep longer than if 
they were not dried, they do not keep so well as white potatoes and 
therefore cannot be stored in such large numbers. If they are to be 
kept for a considerable period of time, they should be wrapped sepa- 
rately in paper and stored in a cool, dry place. 

92. Sweet potatoes vary considerably in size, shape, and quality. 
Some are short and blunt at the tips, others are long and cylindrical, 
either crooked or straight, while others are medium in size and 
spindle-shaped. Some varieties, which are known as yams, cook 
moist and sugary, while others, which are simply called sweet pota- 
toes, cook dry and mealy. The kind to select depends entirely on 
the individual taste, for in composition and food value all the vari- 
eties are similar. In composition, sweet potatoes resemble white 
ones, except that a part of their carbohydrate is in the form of sugar, 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 39 

which gives them their characteristic sweet taste, but in food value 
they are almost twice as great as white potatoes. 

93. The preparation of sweet potatoes is similar to that of white 
potatoes, for they may be boiled, steamed, baked, mashed, creamed, 
fried, etc. In fact, they may be used at any time to take the place of 
white potatoes in the diet. A few recipes are here given for this 
vegetable, but any of those given under White Potatoes may also 
be used by merely substituting sweet potatoes for the white potatoes 
specified. 

94. Boiled Sweet Potatoes. — It is a very simple procedure to 
boil sweet potatoes. When they are to be prepared in this way, select 
potatoes of uniform size and either remove their skins or cook them 
with the skins on. If they are not peeled, scrub them perfectly 
clean. Put them to cook in boiling salted water and allow them to 
boil until they may be easily pierced with a fork. Drain the water 
from them, peel if cooked with their skins on, and serve hot with 
butter or gravy. 

95. Baked Sweet Potatoes. — Persons who are fond of sweet 
potatoes prefer them baked to any other method of preparation. 
Select medium-sized potatoes for this purpose, scrub thoroughly, 
and put in a hot oven to bake. Bake until they are soft enough to 
dent when pinched between the fingers. Remove from the oven and 
serve at once. 

96. Glazed Sweet Potatoes.— To increase the sweet taste 
characteristic of sweet potatoes and favored by many persons, a 
sweet sirup is sometimes added. When this is done, the potatoes 
are first boiled and then cut in half lengthwise and sauted. Sweet 
potatoes so prepared afford a pleasing variety in the diet. 

Clean and peel the desired number of potatoes and boil them as 
already explained. Cut them in half lengthwise, so that each piece 
has a flat side. Melt fat in a frying pan, add the halves of sweet 
potato, and fry until slightly brown. Then turn and fry on the 
reverse side. About 10 or 15 minutes before removing from the pan, 
pour a small quantity of molasses or a mixture of sugar and water 
over the potatoes, and allow them to cook in this sirup until they are 
well covered with the sweet substance. Remove from the pan and 
serve at once. 



40 VEGETABLES § 15 

97. Mashed Sweet Potatoes. — Used alone without further 
preparation, mashed sweet potatoes make a very palatable dish. 
However, as in the case of mashed white potatoes, numerous appe- 
tizing dishes, such as croquettes, patties, etc., can be made of mashed 
sweet potatoes, whether left from a previous meal or cooked for 
this purpose. In the preparation of all such dishes, the recipes given 
under White Potatoes may be followed. 

Peel the desired number of potatoes and cook them in boiling 
salted water until they may be readily pierced with a fork. Drain, 
force through a sieve or a ricer, and season with salt, pepper, and a 
small amount of butter. Thin the mixture with sufficient hot milk 
to make it of a stiff, mush-like consistency. Then beat vigorously 
until the potato is light and creamy. Serve hot. 



RADISHES AND THEIR PREPARATION 

98. Radishes are a root vegetable used almost exclusively as 
a relish or to lend flavor to a vegetable-salad mixture. They are 
easily and successfully grown and are plentiful and cheap, except 
when they are out of season and must be raised in hothouses. 
Numerous varieties of radishes differing from one another in size, 
shape, and color are raised. The red ones are generally preferred, 
because they lend color to a dish or a meal, but the white and browr 
varieties are just as desirable so far as flavor is concerned. 

99. Radishes contain very little food value, being about equal to 
celery and cucumbers in this respect. They do not supply anything 
valuable to a meal except mineral salts. Although some persons 
consider radishes difficult to digest, they contain almost nothing that 
has to be digested, for they are composed largely of cellulose, which 
does not digest, and water. Radishes disagree with some persons 
because, like onions and cabbage, they contain a strong volatile oil 
that gives them their flavor. 

100. Since radishes are always eaten raw, they require very little 
in the way of preparation. The principal thing is to see that they 
are perfectly clean and as crisp as possible. To make them crisp, 
allow them to stand in cold water for some time before using them. 
Then remove the tops and the roots and scrub thoroughly with a 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 41 

vegetable brush. The small red radishes can be made very attractive 
by cutting the skin in sections to resemble the petals of a rose. 
When prepared in this way, a small portion of the green top is 
allowed to remain. 



SALSIFY AND ITS PREPARATION 

101. Salsify is a root vegetable resembling in food value such 
other root vegetables as carrots and parsnips. Because it has a 
flavor similar to that of oysters, especially when it is used for soup, 
it has received the name of vegetable oyster. It consists of long 
slender roots that are covered with tiny roots. It is somewhat diffi- 
cult to clean and prepare, but as it may be stored through the entire 
winter and is particularly desirable for the making of soup, it is a 
valuable vegetable. 

102. In preparing salsify for cooking, scrape the roots rather 
than peel them. Then put them in a solution of cold salt water made 
by using 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water and keep them 
there until ready to cook them. This precaution will, to a certain 
extent, prevent the discoloration that always takes place in salsify 
as soon as the skin is removed. When thus prepared, salsify lends 
itself to the same forms of preparation as do the other root vege- 
tables. 

103. Buttered Salsify. — The simplest way in which to cook 
salsify is to cut it in thin slices, boil it until tender, and then serve 
it with butter. 

Wash and scrape the desired quantity of salsify and slice in thin 
slices. Put to cook in boiling salted water, and cook until it can be 
easily pierced with a fork. Drain off the water, season with pepper 
and, if necessary, additional salt, and add 1 tablespoonful of butter 
for each four persons to be served. Allow the butter to melt and 
serve the salsify hot. 

104. Creamed Vegetable Oysters. — If creamed vegetables 
are favored, vegetable oysters served with a cream sauce will be very 
much relished. Clean and scrape the salsify and cut it into ^-inch 
slices. Put to cook in boiling salted water, cook until tender, and 
then drain. Make a medium white sauce and pour this over the 
cooked vegetable. Heat together and serve. 



42 VEGETABLES § 15 

105. Scalloped Vegetable Oysters. — A very appetizing 
scalloped dish can be made of salsify by following the directions 
given in the accompanying recipe. 

Scalloped Vegetable Oysters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. cooked vegetable oysters Salt and pepper 

1 c. bread crumbs 1^ c. thin white sauce 

Cook the vegetable oysters as explained in Art. 103. Sprinkle a 
layer of crumbs in the bottom of a well-greased baking dish, place a 
layer of the cooked vegetable oysters on top of this, and season with 
salt and pepper. Place a second layer of crumbs and the remainder 
of the vegetable oysters in the dish, and sprinkle again with salt and 
pepper. Pour the white sauce over this, and put the remainder of 
the crumbs on top. Place in a hot oven and bake until well heated 
through and the top is brown. Serve from the baking dish. 



SQUASH AND ITS PREPARATION 



SUMMER SQ,UASH 

106. Summer squash, is a fruit vegetable belonging to the 
same class as eggplant, peppers, etc. and occurring in many vari- 
eties. The different kinds of this vegetable vary greatly in size, 
shape, and color, but all of them may be prepared in practically the 
same way and used for the same purposes. They get their name 
from the fact that they are grown and used during the summer 
season; in fact, they must be used at this time, for they do not 
permit of storage. 

Summer squash contains a great deal of water, and for this reason 
its food value is very low, being about equal to that of lettuce, celery, 
etc. Because of the large percentage of water in its composition, as 
little water as possible should be added in its cooking, or the result 
will be a vegetable so watery as to be unattractive and unpalatable. 
A.nother precaution that should be taken in its preparation is to 
remove the seeds and the skins. Many housewives think it unnecces- 
sary to do this, for both the skins and the seeds can be eaten after 
cooking ; but most persons prefer to have them removed, as the dish 
appears more appetizing. 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 43 

Vegetable marrow is a type of summer squash and may be pre- 
pared for the table by any of the recipes for summer squash. 

107. Stewed. Summer Squash. — The usual way in which to 
cook summer squash is to stew it. If properly cooked and well 
seasoned, stewed squash makes a very tasty dish. 

Wash and peel the desired number of summer squashes, remove 
the seeds, and cut into small pieces. Put over the flame in just 
enough water to start the cooking and add sufficient salt to season 
well. Cook until tender enough to be pierced with a fork and most 
of the water is boiled away, being careful not to scorch. Remove 
from the fire, season with pepper, and add 1 tablespoonful of butter 
for each four persons to be served. Mash until the squash is as fine 
as desired and serve at once. 

108. Sauted Summer Squash. — For variety, summer squash 
is sometimes sliced, coated with egg and crumbs, and- then sauted 
until well browned. 

To prepare it in this way, wash and peel the squash and cut it into 
slices about i inch thick. Roll first in beaten egg diluted with milk 
or water and then in fine crumbs. Saute in a small amount of fat 
in a frying pan until well browned, and then turn and brown on the 
other side. Serve hot. 



WINTER SQ.UASH 

109. Winter squash, is the kind of squash that may be 
removed from the vine in the fall and stored for winter use. 
Although both summer and winter squashes are closely related, they 
dififer considerably in appearance, flavor;^texture, and composition. 
The different varieties of winter squash are usually larger than 
summer squashes and have a very hard outside covering ; also, they 
contain less water and more carbohydrate and, consequently, have a 
higher food value. Winter squashes are usually taken from the 
vines in the fall before the frost sets in, and before they are placed in 
storage they are allowed to lie in the sunshine for a few days until 
the skin hardens and becomes flinty. If the outside covering is 
unmarred when the squashes are stored, they will remain in good 
condition almost the entire winter season, provided the storage place 
is cool and dry. 

110. To prepare winter squash for cooking, cut it open, remove 
the seeds, and peel off the outside skin. Because of the hardness of 



44 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



the covering, a cleaver or a hatchet is generally required to open the 
squash and cut it into pieces. With this done, scrape out the seeds 
and, with a very sharp large knife, peel off the skin. The squash 
may then be cooked in any suitable manner. 

111. Mashed Squash. — If winter squash is desired as a vege- 
table, it is very often boiled and then mashed. Squash prepared in 
this way, with the exception of the seasoning, is also used for pie 
that is similar to pumpkin; in fact, many persons prefer the flavor 
of squash pie to that of pumpkin pie. 

Cut pieces of peeled winter squash into cubes about 1 inch in size. 
Put these to cook in a small amount of boiling water, add enough 
salt to season, and cook until tender and quite dry. Season the 
cooked squash with pepper, add 1 tablespoonful of butter for each 
four persons to be served, and, if desired to increase the sweet taste, 
add a small amount of sugar. Mash until smooth and serve hot. 

112. Baked. Squash. — Winter squash, because of its hard 
covering, is very satisfactory when baked in the shell, as shown in 

Fig. 19. If it is not 
desired to cook it in a 
whole piece, the squash 
may be cut into pieces 
about 3 inches square or 
into triangular pieces. 

Remove the seeds 
from the squash, sprin- 
kle each with salt and 
pepper, and dot with 
butter, as shown. Place 
in a hot oven directly on the grate or in a shallow pan, and bake 
until the contents of the shells are tender. Remove from the oven, 
and serve from the shells. If desired, the squash may be scooped 
from the shells after baking, seasoned at that time instead of when 
put in the oven, and then served in a vegetable dish. 




Fig. 19 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 45 



TOMATOES AND THEIR PREPARATION 

113. Tomatoes are a fruit vegetable that may be either cooked 
or prepared raw in many different ways. They are usually red when 
ripe, and because of this color they are particularly attractive on the 
table. Green or partly ripe tomatoes are also used in the prepara- 
tion of many dishes. Tomatoes are composed largely of water, and 
for this reason their food value is low, being about the same as that 
of greens. This large proportion of water is also responsible for 
the fact that they do not keep for a great length of time. Tomatoes, 
however, have a long season. They begin to appear in the market 
early in the spring and they may be obtained from this time until 
the frost kills the vines in the fall. 

114. While tomatoes appeal to the majority of persons, they 
disagree with some on account of the acid they contain. This acid 
is similar to that found in some fruits, and it is present in greater 
quantity in cooked tomatoes than in raw ones, the heating of the 
vegetable apparently increasing the acidity. This acidity of toma- 
toes may be reduced by the addition of soda, and while soda produces 
a marked change in the flavor, it is necessary in the preparation of 
some dishes. For instance, in the case of cream-of-tomato soup, 
soda must be added to reduce the acidity and thus keep the milk or 
cream used in preparing this dish from curdling. 

115. The skin of tomatoes, whether they are to be eaten raw or 
cooked, is usually undesirable. Therefore, in preparing tomatoes 
for the table, the skins are generally removed. In order to do this, 
first dip the tomatoes into boiling water for several seconds and then 
immediately into cold water. This will loosen the skins, which may 
then be peeled off very thinly, and very little of the tomato will be 
wasted. 

116. Stewed Tomatoes. — The usual way of preparing toma- 
toes is to stew them. Stewed tomatoes may be served plain, but they 
can be improved very decidedly by toasting cubes of bread and 
adding these to thfe tomatoes just before serving. 

Remove the skins and stem ends from the desired number of 
tomatoes, and either cut the tomatoes into pieces or allow them to 
remain whole. Put to cook with little or no water, as the tomatoes 
themselves usually provide sufficient water. Season with salt, and 

WI-C3-1S 



46 VEGETABLES § 15 

cook until the tomatoes are reduced to a mushy consistency. Just 
before removing from the stove, add a dash of pepper and a small 
amount of butter. 

117. Scalloped Tomatoes. — ^A very appetizing way in which 
to cook tomatoes is to scallop them according to the accompanying 
recipe. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. crumbs, buttered Dash of pepper 

2 c. stewed tomatoes 1 Tb. butter 
1 tsp. salt 

Grease a baking dish and place a layer of the crumbs in the bot- 
tom. Place a layer of tomatoes over them, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and dot with the butter. Add another layer of crumbs 
and the remainder of the tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and again dot with butter. Place the remainder of the crumbs on 
top. Bake in a hot oven until well heated through and the crumbs 
on top are brown. Serve hot from the baking dish. 

118. Stuffed Tomatoes. — Tomatoes prove to be very satis- 
factory when stuffed with a well-seasoned stuffing and then baked. 
Medium-sized tomatoes that are firm and unblemished should be 
selected for stuffing. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 tomatoes 1 tsp. celery salt 

H c. crumbs -J tsp. salt 

2 Tb. butter Dash of pepper 
1 small onion, chopped 

Remove the stem end from each tomato and scoop out the inside 
so that a hollow shell remains. Chop the pulp of the tomatoes into 
small pieces and add the crumbs, melted butter, onion, celery salt, salt, 
and pepper. Mix together thoroughly. If the tomatoes do not fur- 
nish enough liquid to moisten the crumbs, add a little water. Pack 
the stuffing into the tomatoes, allowing it to heap up on top, and place 
the tomatoes side by side in a shallow pan. Set in a hot oven and 
bake until the tomato shells are tender enough to be pierced with a 
fork and the stuffing is well heated through. Serve at once. 

119. Stuffed Tomatoes With Cheese Carrots. — ^An 

af.tractive way in which to serve stuffed tomatoes is shown in Fig. 20. 



§15 



VEGETABLES 



47 



The tomatoes are filled with a tasty stuffing and then baked. Yellow 
cream cheese is made to resemble tiny carrots, and these, together 




Fig. 20 

with parsley, are used to garnish the platter in which the tomatoes 
are placed. 

Stuffed Tomatoes With Cheese Carrots 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 medium-sized tomatoes i tsp. salt 

4 Tb. bacon or ham fat 
2 Tb. chopped onion 



i c. chopped ham 
1^ c. stale bread crumbs 



i tsp. pepper 

2 Tb. chopped parsley 

Yellow cream cheese 

Parsley 



Cut the tops from the tomatoes and remove the pulp. Melt the 
fat in a frying pan, add the chopped onion, ham, tomato pulp, bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper, and parsley. Heat thoroughly and mix well. 
Fill the tomatoes with the stuffing, which should be quite moist, put 
them in a shallow pan, and bake them until the tomato shell may be 
easily pierced with a fork. Mash yellow cream cheese and, if neces- 
sary, moisten it slightly with cream. Shape it into tiny carrots with 
the fingers, and put a piece of parsley in one end for leaves. Place 
the baked tomatoes on a platter and garnish with the carrots and 
sprigs of parsley. Serve. 

120. Sauted Tomatoes. — Half ripened tomatoes are delicious 
when sauted. Cut the desired number of such-tomatoes into slices 
about i inch thick, and roll first in beaten egg and then in stale bread 
crumbs or cracker crumbs. Saute in a small amount of fat until they 
are brown on one side; then turn and brown on the other side. 
Remove from the pan and serve at once, 

121. Creamed Tomatoes. — ^A rather unusual, but neverthe- 
less very appetizing, way of preparing tomatoes consists in sauteing 



48 VEGETABLES § 15 

them in fat and then serving them with a cream sauce on freshly 
toasted bread. 

When it is desired to prepare tomatoes in this manner, select 
medium-sized ones and cut them into slices -J inch thick. Roll the 
slices first in egg and then in stale bread crumbs or cracker crumbs. 
Saute in a generous amount of fat until brown, drain carefully, and 
brown on the other side. When done, remove from the pan. Add 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat that remains in the pan, and stir 
until the flour becomes light brown. Add 1^ cupfuls of milk and 
stir until thick. Place the slices of tomato on freshly toasted bread 
and pour the sauce over them. 



TURNIPS AND THEIR PREPARATION 

122. Turnips, which are a root vegetable, occur in two vari- 
eties, white and yellow. The white ones are commonly known as 
turnips and the yellow ones are called rutabagas. Although differ- 
ing in color, both varieties have much the same flavor and may be 
prepared in the same ways. Therefore, whenever a recipe calls for 
turnips, rutabagas may be used as well. 

123. In food value, turnips are similar to beets, carrots, and 
parsnips. They have a strong flavor, which is disliked by many per- 
sons and disagrees with some. However, much of this can be dis- 
sipated by cooking them with the cover of the kettle removed, so 
that when properly prepared they furnish a pleasant variety to the 
winter menu. They have good storing qualities and can be kept 
very easily through the winter. Toward spring it is more difficult 
to cook them soft, as the cellulose in them becomes harder and they 
are likely to develop woody fiber. 

124. In preparing turnips for cooking, scrub them until thor- 
oughly clean and then peel, wasting no more of the vegetable than 
is necessary. They may then be cut up as desired for the recipe to 
be prepared. 

125. Stewed Turnips. — ^When turnips are stewed until tender 
and then seasoned with salt and pepper and flavored with butter 
they form a very palatable dish. 

To prepare them in this way, select the desired number, scrub 
them until clean, and then peel them. Cut them into dice about i inch 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 49 

in size, and put these to cook in boiling salted water, allowing the 
cover to remain oif the kettle during the cooking. Cook until they 
may be easily pierced with a fork and drain the water from them. 
Season with additional salt, if necessary, and with pepper, and add 
1 tablespoonful of butter for each four persons to be served. 
Allow the butter to melt and serve hot. 

126. Mashed Turnips. — ^Turnips, like potatoes, are a very 
good vegetable to mash. Prepare the desired number in the manner 
explained in Art. 125. Cook in boiling salted water with the kettle 
cover removed. When tender enough to be mashed easily, drain 
the water from them, mash with a potato masher, and season with 
additional salt if necessary and with pepper and butter. Allow the 
butter to melt and serve hot. 

127. Creamed Turnips. — Turnips, both yellow and white, 
make an excellent dish when dressed with a cream sauce. Prepare 
the desired number of turnips by cleaning and peeling them and 
cutting them into dice about -J inch in size. Cook until tender in 
boiling salted water and drain. Prepare a medium white sauce and 
pour over the turnips. Serve hot. 



VEGETABLE COMBINATIONS 

128. The recipes given for the various kinds of vegetables per- 
tain in most cases to merely one vegetable, and this is the way in 
which this food is usually prepared. However, there are times when 
it is an advantage to combine two or more vegetables. For instance, 
it is sometimes desired to give additional variety to the menu or to 
utilize small quantities of vegetable that alone would not be suffi- 
cient to serve the family. Then, again, two vegetables are often pre- 
pared together in order to obtain an attractive color combination. In 
view of these facts, several recipes for the most usual combinations 
of vegetables are here given, so that the housewife may not be at a 
loss when she wishes to combine two or more vegetables. It must 
not be thought that these are the only combinations that can be pre- 
pared, for often vegetables can be combined to suit the housewife's 
taste and needs. 

129. Carrots and Peas. — If an attractive combination, as 
well as an appetizing dish, is desired, carrots and peas should be 



50 



VEGETABLES 



§15 



prepared together and served with butter or a vegetable pr a cream 
sauce. This, combination may be served plain, but if there are any 
mashed potatoes on hand and an attractive dish is desired, it may be 
served in potato rosettes, as shown in Fig. 21. 

Clean and scrape the desired number of young, tender carrots, 
and cut them into dice about the size of the peas that are to be used. 
Shell an equal quantity of green peas. Put the two vegetables together 
in boiling salted water and cook until tender. If there is any possi- 
bility that the carrots will not cook in as short a period of time as the 
peas, cook them for some time before adding the peas. When tender, 
pour off the water, add additional salt, if necessary, and pepper, and 
dress with butter or, if preferred, with a vegetable or a white sauce. 
Heat through thoroughly and serve. 

If it is desired to serve the carrots and peas in the rosettes men- 
tioned, force hot mashed potato through a pastry tube and form the 




Fig. 21 

required number of rosettes on a platter, as shown. In the center 
of each rosette put a spoonful or two of the carrots and peas. 

In case fresh peas cannot be secured, canned peas may be substi- 
tuted. When this is done, the carrots should be cooked until tender 
and the peas added just before the sauce is poured over the vege- 
tables. 

130. Succotash. — ^A combination of fresh shelled beans and 
sweet corn is known as succotash. To prepare this dish, shell the 
beans and put them to cook in boiling salted water. Cook until they 
are tender and the water has boiled down until it is greatly reduced 
in quantity. Then cut an equal amount of corn from the cob and 
add to the beans. Cook for a few minutes longer or until the water 
is sufficiently reduced, so that the combination may be served with- 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 51 

out pouring any water off. Dress with butter and season with 
pepper and, if necessary, additional salt. 

During the winter, when green corn and fresh beans cannot be 
secured, succotash can be made by using dried or canned corn and 
dried beans. 

131. Corn and Tomatoes. — ^A somewhat unusual vegetable 
combination is made by cooking tomatoes and green corn together. 

Prepare the desired number of tomatoes in the usual way for 
stewing and cut an equal amount of sweet corn from the cob. Put 
the two vegetables together in a saucepan and cook until the toma- 
toes are well stewed. Season with salt, pepper, and sugar, if 
desired, and add a small piece of butter. Serve hot. 

132. Corn, String Beans, and Tomatoes. — ^Those who 
care for the combination of corn and tomatoes will find beans a 
very agreeable addition to this dish. 

Prepare the corn and tomatoes as explained in Art. 131, and to 
them add young, tender string beans that have been previously 
cooked in boiling salted water. Add the desired seasoning and a 
small amount of butter. When thoroughly heated, serve. 

133. Peas and Potatoes. — ^As a rule, the first green peas 
and the first new potatoes come into the market at about the same 
time. If a delicious combination is desired, these two vegetables 
should be cooked together and then dressed in any desirable way. 

Select small potatoes, scrape them, and put them to cook in boil- 
ing salted water. Shell an equal amount of green peas, and add 
them to the potatoes about 20 minutes before the potatoes become 
tender. Cook until both vegetables are tender, and then drain the 
water from them. Dress with butter, vegetable sauce, cream sauce, 
or thin cream and serve. 

134. Turnips and Potatoes. — Persons who are likely to find 
the flavor of turnips disagreeable can usually eat them when they 
are combined with potatoes. 

Pare an equal number of Irish potatoes and turnips and cut them 
into thick slices. Put them to cook in boiling salted water and cook 
with the cover off the kettle until both are tender. Drain and dress 
with butter or add butter and mash together. Serve hot. 

135. New England Boiled Dinner. — A combination of food 
that is much used by the people of the New England States and 



52 VEGETABLES § 15 

has become famous throughout the United States, consists of corned 
beef, potatoes, turnips, and cabbage. As may well be imagined, 
such a combination forms practically all that is necessary for a home 
dinner. 

Select a good piece of corned beef and put it to cook in boiling 
water. About 30 minutes before the beef has finished cooking, add 
additional water, if necessary, and into this place an equal quantity 
of Irish potatoes, turnips, and cabbage prepared in the required 
way and cut into thick slices or chunks. Cook until the vegetables 
are tender. Then remove the beef to a platter, surround with vege- 
tables, and serve. 

SERVING VEGETABLES 

136. The way in which vegetables are served depends largely 
on the method of preparation. However, a point that should 
never be neglected, so far as cooked vegetables are concerned, no 
matter what plan of serving is followed, is to see that they are always 
served hot. To make this possible, the dishes in which they are 
served should be heated before the vegetables are put into them 
and should be kept hot until put on the table. When a vegetable 
dish has a cover, the cover should be kept on until the vegetable is 
served and should be replaced after the first serving, so as to keep 
the remainder hot. 

137. Because of the possible variety in the preparation of this 
class of foods, numerous ways of serving them are in practice. 
When a vegetable is baked in a large baking dish, the dish should 
be placed on the table and the vegetable served from it either on 
the plate or in individual dishes. If individual baking dishes are 
used, these should be set on small plates and one put at each per- 
son's place. Boiled or creamed vegetables may be served at the 
table from a vegetable dish, being put on the plate or in small 
dishes, or they may be served in individual dishes in the kitchen, 
and a dish placed at the left of each person's place. When the large 
dish or the baking dish is placed on the table, it should be placed 
where the vegetable may be conveniently served by the host if it is 
to be put on the dinner plate or by the hostess in case it is to be 
served in individual dishes at the table. 

138. In addition to being served in these ways, vegetables also 
lend themselves to various attractive methods of serving. For 



§ 15 VEGETABLES 53 

instance, a vegetable prepared with a sauce is frequently served in 
patty shells, timbale cases, or croustades. When this is done, the 
case in which the vegetable is served is, as a rule, placed directly on 
the dinner plate. Potatoes that have been mashed are often forced 
through a pastry tube either to garnish another dish or to make a 
dish of potatoes more attractive. For instance, when mashed pota- 
toes are to be served, a solid foundation of the potato may be 
arranged in the center of a dish and a little of the mashed potato 
then forced through the tube to make a design over the top. Before 
being served, the dish should be placed in the oven and the potato 
browned on top. A little thought on the part of the housewife will 
enable her to work out many other attractive methods in the serving 
of this food. 



VEGETABLES 

(PART 2) 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (o) How do wild and cultivated greens differ ? (&) What is the chief 
use of greens in the diet? 

(2) (a) What precaution should be observed in washing greens? 
(6) Mention the procedure in cooking greens having a strong flavor. 

(3) (o) If greens, such as endive, appear to be withered, how may they 
be freshened? (6) Explain the use of lettuce as a garnish, (c) What are 
the uses of parsley? 

(4) (o) How are Jerusalem artichokes prepared for the table? (6) What 
part of kohlrabi is used for food? (c) How is kohlrabi generally prepared for 
cooking ? 

(5) (a) To what class of vegetables do lentils belong? (b) Is the food 
value of lentils low or high? Discuss. 

(6) (o) How may the food value of mushrooms be increased? (6) How 
should mushrooms be prepared for cooking? (c) Mention the ways in which 
mushrooms may be cooked. 

(7) (o) What causes onions, especially raw ones, to disagree with many 
persons? (&) Mention the two general varieties of onions, (c) How are 
chives prepared when they are to be used for flavoring soups, etc. ? 

(8) (o) How should onion be added to other foods when it is desired 
simply as a flavoring? (6) How may onions be peeled so as to keep off the 
fumes of their volatile oil? 

(9) (o) How should parsnips be prepared for cooking? (i) Tell how to 
prepare browned parsnips. 

(10) In what way do green and dried peas differ in food value? Explain 
fully. 

(11) Tell how to cook: (a) green peas; (6) dried peas. 

(12) (o) What varieties of peppers are generally used as a vegetable? 
(6) Of what value are peppers? 

(13) (a) To what may the high food value of potatoes be attributed? 
(&) How may the quality of potatoes be judged? (c) Mention the most 
economical way in which to cook potatoes. 

S15 



2 VEGETABLES § 15 

(14) Tell how to prepare: (o) mashed potatoes; (6) baked potatoes, 
(c) How may the baking of potatoes be hastened? (_d) Mention several 
ways in which to utilize left- over potatoes. 

(15) (a) How may sweet potatoes be prepared for the table? (6) Tell 
how to prepare glazed sweet potatoes. 

(16) (a) How are radishes usually eaten? (6) What may be said of the 
food value of radishes ? 

(17) (a) In what way do summer and winter squashes differ? (6) Why 
should the seeds and skins of summer squash be removed in preparing this 
vegetable for the table? 

(18) (a) Why is salsify called vegetable oyster? (t) How is salsify 
prepared for cooking? 

(19) (a) What may be said of the food value of tomatoes? (6) How 
may the acidity of tomatoes be decreased? (c) How may the skins of tomatoes 
be renioved easily? 

(20) (o) Point out the difference between turnips and rutabagas, 
(fc) When is it advisable to make combination vegetable dishes? (c) Mention 
several good combinations. 



INDEX 



Note. — In this Volume, each Section is complete in itself and has a number, which, 
together with the section mark (§), is printed at the top of every page of the Section. 
To find a reference, glance along the inside edges of the headlines until you find the 
desired Section number and then along the outside edges until you find the desired 
page. Thus, to find the reference, "Cheese bonbons, §7, pl9," turn to the Section marked 
§7 and then to page 19 of that Section. 

A Bean croquettes, §14, p32 

loaf, Lima, §14. p30 
puree, §14, p28 
souffle, §14, p30 
Beans and their preparation, §14, p23 
Baked, §14, p31 
Composition and food value of dried, 

§14, p9 
Composition and food value of lima, 

§14, p9 
Composition and food value of shell, 

§14, p9 
Composition and food value of string, 

§14. p9 
Shell, §14, pp23, 26 
String, §14, pp23, 24 
Varieties of, §H p23 
Wax, §14, p24 
Beating of eggs, §8, pl9 
Beet tops, §15, p3 

Beets and their preparation, §14, p33 
Baked, §14, p3S 
Buttered, §14, p34 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
Pickled, §14, p35 

Preparation and cooking of, §14, p34 
Selection and care of, §14, p33 
with cream dressing, §14, p34 
with sour dressing, §14, p34 
Belgian cheese, §7, pl4 
Black-butter sauce, §14, pl9 

tea, §7, p29 
Boiled cabbage, §14, p39 
dinner, New England, §15, p51 
kohlrabi, §15, pll 
onions, §15, p21 
potatoes, §15, p30 
sweet potatoes, §15, p39 
Bonbons, Cheese, §7, pl9 
Breakfast menu, §|8, p40 
Breaking of eggs, §8, pl8 
Brick cheese, §7, pl6 



Acid, Butyric, §7, p4 

Lactic, §6, p5 
Adulteration of milk, §6, plO 
Albumin in milk, §6, p4 

Vegetable, §14, p5 
Alpine eggs, §8, p38 
American Cheddar cheese, §7, ppl2, 15 

cream cheese, §7, pl2 

home-made cheese, §7, pl6 
Apples, Baked, §7, p28 
Artichokes, Buttered, §15, plO 

Composition and food value of French, 
§14, p9 

Creamed, §15, plO 

French, §14, pS7 

Jerusalem, §15, plO 

with HoUandaise sauce, §14, p58 
Artificial buttermilk, §6, p7 
Ash, or mineral matter, in vegetables, 

§14. p6 
Asparagus, §14, p20 

and its preparation, §14, p20 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

for cooking, Preparation of, §14, p21 

Scalloped, §14, p22 

with butter dressing, §14, p21 



Baked apples, §7, p28 

beans, §14, p31 

beets, §14, p3S 

eggplant, §14, p56 

eggs in cream, §8, p36 

onions, §15, p2I 

potatoes, §15, p32 

sauerkraut, §14, p42 

squash, §15, p44 

sweet potatoes, §15, p39 
Baking dishes for egg recipes. Individual, 

§8. p3S 
Balls, Potato, §15, p36 



INDEX 



Brie cheese, §7, pl3 
Broiled mushrooms, §15, pl4 
Browned carrots, §14, p44 

parsnips, §15, p24 

potatoes, §15, p32 
Brussels sprouts and their preparation, 
§14, p35 

sprouts, Buttered, §14, p36 

sprouts. Composition and food value of, 
§14, p9 

sprouts, Cooking of, §14, p35 

sprouts. Creamed, §14, p37 

sprouts. Scalloped, §14, p37 
Bulb, root, and tuber vegetables, §14, pl3 
Butter, §7, pi 

Care of, §7, p4 

Cooking with, §7, p4 

dressing, Asparagus with, §14, p21 

Economical use of, §7, pi 

Flavor and composition of, §7, p2 

Purchasing, §7, p3 

Renovated, §7, p7 

Serving, §7, p5 

substitutes, §7, p7 

substitutes. Method of testing, §7, p8 
Buttered artichokes, §15, plO 

beets, §14, p34 

Brussels sprouts, §14, p36 

carrots, §14, p43 

salsify, §15, p41 
Butterine, §7, p7 
Buttermilk, §6, p7 

Artificial, §6, p7 

Composition and food value of, §6, p8 

cream cheese, §7, pl7 
Butyric acid, §7, p4 



Cabbage, §14, p37 

and its preparation, §14, p37 

Boiled, §14. p39 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Creamed, §14, p40 

Preparation and cooking of, §14, p38 

Purple, §14, p38 

Savoy, §14, p38 

Scalloped, §14. p40 

Selection and care of, §14, p38 

Turnip, §15, plO 

White, §14, p38 
Camembert cheese, §7, pl3 
Candling eggs, §8, p7 
Caps, Sanitary milk, §6, p22 
Caramel junket, §6, p29 
Carbohydrate in milk, §6, p4 
Carbohydrates in vegetables, §14, p6 
Care and selection of string beans, §14, p24 

of butter, §7, p4 

of celery, §14, p48 

of cheese, §7, pU 



Care of milk, §6, p22 

of milk in the home. Necessity for, 
§6, p22 

of potatoes, §15, p30 

of vegetables, §14, pl2 
Carrots, §14, p43 

and peas, §15, p49 

and their preparation, §14, p43 

Browned, §14, p44 

Buttered, §14, p43 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Selection and preparation of, §14, p43 

with parsley, §14, p44 
Casein in milk, §6, p4 
Cauliflower, §14, p45 

and its preparation, §14, p45 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Creamed, §14, p47 

Scalloped, §14. p46 

Selection and cooking of, §14, p45 

with tomato sauce, §14, p45 
Celery, §14, p47 

au gratin, §14, p49 

Care of, §14. p48 

Composition and food value of, §14. p9 

Creamed, §14, p48 

Preparation of, §14, p48 
Cellulose in vegetables, §14, p7 
Certified milk, §6, pl4 
Characteristics and care of cheese, §7. p8 

of wholesome milk, §6, p9 
Cheddar cheese, §7 pl2 

cheese, American, §7, ppl2, IS 
Cheese, §7, p8 

American Cheddar, §7, ppl2, 15 

American cream, §7, pl2 

American home-made, §7, pl6 

-and-macaroni loaf, §7, p23 

Belgian, §7, pl4 

bonbons, §7, pl9 

Brick, §7, pl6 

Brie, §7, pl3 

Buttermilk, §7, pl7 

Buttermilk cream, §7, pl7 

Camembert, §7, pl3 

Care of, §7, pll 

Characteristics of, §7. p8 

Cheddar, §7, pl2 

Cheshire, §7, pl2 

Composition of, §7, plO 

Cottage, §7, pl6 

dishes. Recipes for, §7, pl8 

dishes, Variety of, §7, pl9 

Domestic, §7, ppll, 14 

dreams, §7, p24 

Edam, §7, pU 

Effect of cooking on, §7, pl8 

Emmenthal, §7, pl4 

English, §7, pl2 

English dairy, §7, pl2 



INDEX 



111 



Cheese fondue, §7, p24 

Foreign, §7, pU 

GorgoQzola, §7, pl4 

Gruyere, §7, pl3 

Holland, §7, pl3 

Imported, §7, pl2 

Junket cottage, §7, pl7 

Limburger, or limburg, §7, pl4 

Neufchatel, §7, pl3 

omelet, §7, p20; §8, p31 

Origin, use, and production of, §7, p8 

Parmesan, §7, pl4 

Quality of, §7, plO 

Roquefort, §7, pl3 

sandwiches, §7, p27 

Sapsago, §7, pl4 

sauce, §7, p21 

Serving, §7, pl8 

souffle, §7, p20 

Stilton, §7, pl2 

straws, §7, p25 

stuffing. Tomatoes with, §7, p26 

Swiss, §7, pl4 

Switzer, §7. pl4 

toast, §7, p21 

Varieties of, §7, pU 

wafers, §7, p2S 
Cheeses, French, §7, pl3 

Italian, §7, pl4 

Swiss, §7, pl4 
Cheshire cheese, §7, pl2 
Chestnuts, Creamed mushrooms and, §15, pl5 
Chives, §15, p20 
Chocolate junket, §6, p29 
Clabber, or curd, §6, p7 
Classification of vegetables, §14, pl3 
Clean milk. Grades of, §6, pl4 
Cleanliness of milk, §6, pU 
Clipped eggs, §8, p38 
Combinations, Vegetable, §15, p49 
Commercial preservation of eggs, §8, pl4 
Composition- and flavor of butter, §7, p2 

and food value of asparagus, §14, p9 

and food value of beets, §14, p9 

and food value of Brussels sprouts, §14, p9 

and food value of buttermilk, §6, p8 

and food value of cabbage, §14, p9 

and food value of carrots, §14, p9 

and food value of cauliflower, §14, p9 

and food value of celery, §14, p9 

and food value of corn, §14, p9 

and food value of cream, §6, p8 

and food value of cucumbers, §14, p9 

and food value of dandelion greens, 
§14, p9 

and food value of dried beans, §14, p9 

and food value of dried lentils, §14, p9 

and food value of dried peas, §14, p9 

and food value of eggplant, §14, p9 

and food value of endive, §14, p9 



Composition and food value of French arti- 
chokes, §14, p9 
and food value of green peas, §14, p9 
and food value of greens, §14, p9 
and food value of Jerusalem artichokes, 

§14, p9 
and fopd value of kohlrabi, §14, p9 
and food value of lettuce, §14, p9 
and food value of lima beans, §14, p9 
and food value of mushrooms, §14, p9 
and food value of okra, §14, p9 
and food value of onions, §14, p9 
and food value of parsnips, §14, p9 
and food value of peppers, §14, p9 
and food value of potatoes, §14, p9 
and food value of radishes, §14, p9 
and food value of salsify, §14, p9 
and food value of shell beans, §14, p9 
and food value of skimmed milk, §6, pS 
and food value of spinach, §14, p9 
and food value of string beans, §14, p9 
and food value of summer squash, §14, p9 
and food value of sweet potatoes, §14, p9 
and food value of Swiss chard, §14, p9 
and food value of tomatoes, §14, p9 
and food value of turnips, §14, p9 
and food value of vegetables, Table 

showing, §14, p9 
and food value of water-cress, §14, p9 
and food value of whey, §6, p8 
and food value of winter squash, §14, p9 
of cheese, §7, plO 
of milk, §6, p3 
of whole milk, §6, p8 
Standard of milk, §6, p9 
structure, and food value of vegetables, 
§14, p4 

Condensed milk, §6, pl9 

Cooked sauted potatoes, §15, p34 

Cooking eggs, §8, p21 
milk, §6, p24 

of Brussels sprouts, §14, p35 
of cauliflower, §14, p45 
of dried shell beans, §14, p28 
of eggs, §8, pis 
of lentils, §15, pl2 

of vegetables. General methods of prep- 
aration and, §14, pl5 
on cheese. Effect of, §7, pl8 
on vegetables, EfTect of, §14, pl6 
Preparing mushrooms for, §15, pl4 
Preparing vegetables for, §14, pl5 
Variety of ways to use milk in, §6, p26 
with butter, §7, p4 

Corn and its preparation, §14, p49 
and tomatoes, §15, p5l 
Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
cooked in milk, §14, p51 
fritter's, §14, p53 
on the cob, §14, p50 



IV 



INDEX 



Corn oysters, §14, p53 

pulp, 514, p52 

souffle, $14. p52 

string beans, and tomatoes, §15, p51 

Sweet, §14, p49 
Cottage cheese, §7, pl6 

-cheese. Junket, §7, pl7 
Cow's milk, §6, pi 
Cream, §6, ppl, 4, 6 

cheese, American, §7, pl2 

Composition and food value of, §6, p8 

-of-corn soup, §7, p28 

Standard grading of milk and, §6, p20 

Whipping, §6, p6 
Creamed artichokes, §15, plO 

asparagus on toast, §14, p22 

Brussels sprouts, §14, p37 

cabbage, §14, p40 

cauliflower, §14, p47 

celery, §14, p48 

eggs, §8, p33 

kohlrabi, §15, pU 

mushrooms and chestnuts, §15, pl5 

onions, §15, p21 

parsnips, §15, p23 

peas, §15, p25 

potatoes, §15, p36 

spinach, §15, p7 

string beans, §14, p25 

tomatoes, §15, p47 

turnips, §15, p49 

vegetable oysters, §15, p41 
Cress, Upland, §15, p8 
Croquettes, Bean, §14, p32 

Potato, §15, p37 
Cucumbers and their preparation, §14, p54 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Stuffed, §14, p55 
Curd, or clabber, §6, p7 

D 

Dairy cheese, English, §7, pl2 
Dandelion, §15, p3 

greens. Composition and food value of, 
§14, p9 

with sour sauce, §15, p3 
Desiccated eggs, §8, pl5 
Deterioration of eggs. Causes and preven- 
tion of, §8, pl3 
Diet, Milk in the, §6, pi 
Digestibility of eggs, §8, p5 

of vegetables, §14, p8 
Dinner, New England boiled, §15, p51 
Domestic cheese, §7, ppll, 14 
Drawn-butter sauce, §14, pl9 
Dreams, Cheese, §7, p24 
Dressing, Sour, §14, p26 

Sour-cream, §14, pl9 
Dried beans. Composition and food value 
of, §14, p9 



Drted lentils. Composition and food value 
of, §14, p9 
onions, §15, pl8 
peas, §15. p25 
peas. Composition and food value of 

§14, p9 
shell beans. Cooking of, §14, p28 

E 

Edam cheese, §7, pl3 

Egg beater. Rotary, or Dover, §8, p20 

recipes, §8, p25 

recipes. Individual baking dishes 'or, §8, 
p35 

souffle, §8, p36 
Eggplant, §14, p55 

Baked, §14, p56 

Food value and composition of, §14, p9 

Preparation of, §14, p5S 

Sauted, §14, p56 

Scalloped, §14, p57 
Eggs, §8, pi 

a la goldenrod, §8, p34 

Alpine, §8, p38 

and place in the diet. Description of, 
§8, pl 

as food. Value of, §8, pl 

Beating of, §8, pl9 

Breaking of, §8, pl8 

Candling, §8, p7 

Clipped, §8, p38 

Commercial preservation of, §8, pl4 

Cooking, §8, p9 

Cooking of, §8, pl8 

Creamed, §8, p33 

Desiccated, §8, plS 

Deterioration of, §8, pl3 

Digestibility of, §8. p5 

Extra fancy, §8, p9 

Fancy, §8, p9 

Fat in, §8, p4 

for cooking, Preliminary preparation of, 
§8, pis 

Fried, §8, p27 

Hard-cooked, §8, p27 

Home preservation of, §8, pl6 

in cream, Baked, §8, p36 

in the home. Judging the quality of, 
§8, plO 

in the market, Judging the quality of, 
§8, p9 

Left-over, §8, p39 

Marketing of, §8, p6 

Minerals in, §8, pS 

Nutritive value of, §8, p3 

on toast. Poached, §8, p26 

on toast. Scrambled, §8, p29 

Poached, §8, p25 

Points to observe in cooking, §8, p21 

Powdered, §8, plS 



INDEX 



Eggs, Preservation of, §8. pl3 

Protein in, §8, p4 

Quality of, §8, p8 

Scalloped, §8, p35 

Scrambled, §8, p27 

Selection of, §8, p6 

Separating of, §8, pl9 

Serving of, §8, 23 

Soft-cooked, or jellied, §8, p2S 

Strictly fresh, §8, p9 

Stuffed, §8, p33 

with ham. Scrambled, §8, p29 

with ham, Shirred, §8, p36 

with limewater, Preservation of, §8, pl7 

with tomato. Scrambled, §8, p28 

with water glass. Preservation of, §8, pl7 
Emmenthal cheese, §7, pl4 
Emulsion, §6, p4 
Endive, §15, p4 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
English cheese, §7, pl2 

dairy cheese, §7, pl2 

monkey, §7, p23 
Evaporated and condensed milk, §6, pl9 

milk, §6, pl9 
Extra fancy eggs, §8, p9 

F 

Fancy eggs, §8, p9 
Fat in eggs, §8, p4 
in milk, §6, p4 
in vegetables, §14, pS 
Figs stuffed with cheese, §7, p26 
Flavor and composition of butter, §7, p2 
Flavoring, Onions for, §15, p20 
Flower and fruit vegetables, §14, pl4 
Fondue, Cheese, §7, p24 
Food, Importance of vegetables as, §14, pi 
value and composition of asparagus, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of beets, §14, p9 
value and composition of Brussels 

sprouts, §14, p9 
value and composition of buttermilk, 

§6, p8 
value and composition of cabbage, §14, p9 
value and composition of carrots, §14, p9 
value and composition of cauliflower, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of celery, §14, p9 
value and composition of corn, §14, p9 
value and composition of cream, §6, p8 
value and composition of cucumbers, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of dandelion 

greens, §14, p9 
value and composition of dried beans, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of dried lentils, 
§14, p9 

WI— C3— W 



Food value and composition of dried peas, 
§14, p9 
value and composition of eggplant, §14, p9 
value and composition of endive, §14, p9 
value and composition of French arti- 
chokes, §14, p9 
value and composition of green peas, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of greens, §14, p9 
value and composition of Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, §14, p9 
value and composition of kohlrabi, §14, p9 
value and composition of lettuce, §14, p9 
value and composition of lima beans, 

§14. p9 
value and composition of mushrooms, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of okra, §14, p9 
value and composition of onions, §14, p9 
value and composition of parsnips, §14, p9 
value and composition of peppers, §14, p9 
value and composition of potatoes, §14, p9 
value and composition of radishes, §14, p9 
value and composition of salsify, §14, p9 
value and composition of shell beans, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of skim milk, §6, pS 
value and composition of spinach, §14, p9 
value and composition of string beans, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of summer squash, 

§14. p9 
value and composition of sweet potatoes, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of Swiss chard, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of tomatoes, §14, p9 
value and composition of turnips, §14, p9 
value and composition of vegetables. 

Table showing, §14, p9 
value and composition of watercress, 

§14, p9 
value and composition of whey, §6, p8 
value and composition of winter squash, 

§14, p9 
value and varieties of greens, §15, pi 
value of potatoes, §15, p29 
value of vegetables. Structure, composi- 
tion and, §14, p4 
value of whole milk, §6, p8 
values of milk products. Comparison of, 
§6, P9 
Foods containing milk, §6, p27 
Foreign cheese, §7, pll 
French artichokes, §14, p57 
artichokes. Preparation of, §14, pS7 
cheese, §7, pl3 
fried potatoes, §15, p35 
Fresh shell beans, Preparation and cooking 
of, §14, p27 



VI 



INDEX 



Freshness of milk, §6, pll 
Fried eggs, §8, p27 
Fritters, Corn, §14, p53 
Fruit and flower vegetables, §14, pl4 
Junket with, §6, p28 

G 

Garlic, §15, pl9 

Glazed sweet potatoes, §15, p39 
Gorgonzola cheese, §7, pl4 
Grades of clean milk, §6, pl4 
Green onions, §15, pl8 

peas, §15, p24 

peas, English style, §15, p25 

peas with butter, §15, p25 
Greens and their preparation, §15, pi 

Food value of, §15, pi 

General directions for cooking, §15, p2 

Varieties of, §15, pi 
Gruyere cheese, §7, pl3 
Gumbo, §15, pl6 

H 

Hard-cooked eggs, §8, p27 
Hash-browned potatoes, §7, p28 
Holland cheese, §7, pl3 
HoUandaise sauce, §14, pl9 

sauce, Artichokes with, §14, p58 
Home, Keeping milk clean in the, §6, p22 

Keeping milk cool in the, §6, p23 

-made cheese, American, §7, pl6 

Milk in the, §6. p20 

preservation of eggs, §8, pl6 
Hot slaw, §14, p41 



Imported cheese, §7, pl2 

Individual baking dishes for egg recipes, 

§8, p35 
Irish potatoes, §15, p29 
Italian cheeses, §7, pl4 



Jellied, or soft-cooked, eggs, §8, p2S 
Jerusalem artichokes, §15, plO 

artichokes. Composition and food value 
of, §14, p9 

artichokes, Preparation of, §15, plO 
Judging the quality of eggs in the home, 
§8, plO 

the quality of eggs in the market, §8, p9 
Junket. §6, p27 

Caramel, §6, p29 

Chocolate, §6, p29 

cottage cheese, §7, pl7 

Plain, §6, p27 

Recipes for, §6, p27 

with fruit, §6, p28 

K 



Kinds of cheese, §7, pll 
Kohlrabi, §15. plO 



Kohlrabi, Boiled, §15, pll 
Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
Creamed, §15, pll 
Mashed, §15, pll 
Preparation of, §15, plO 



Lactic acid, §6, p5 
Lactose, §6, p4 
Leeks, §15, pl9 
Left-over eggs, §8, p39 
Legumes, §14, pl4 
Legumin, §14, p5 
Lentil puff, §15, pl3 
Lentils, §15, pll 

Cooking of, §15, pl2 

Preparation of, §15, pll 
Lettuce, §15, p5 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
Lima-bean loaf, §14, p30 

beans. Composition and food value of, 
§14, p9 

beans en casserole, §14, p29 

beans in cream, §14, p29 
Limburg cheese, §7, pl4 
Limburger cheese, §7, pl4 
Lime in milk, §6, p5 
Limewater, Preservation of eggs with, 

§8, pl7 
Loaf, Cheese-and-macaroni, §6, p23 

Lima-bean, §14, p30 
Luncheon menu, §7, p27 
Lyonnaise potatoes, §15, p35 

M 

Maitre d'hotel sauce, §14, pl9 
Margarine, §7, p7 
Marketing of eggs, §8. p6 
Marrow, Vegetable, §15, p43 
Mashed kohlrabi, §15, pll 

parsnips, §15, p23 

potatoes, §15, p31 

squash, §15, p44 

sweet potatoes, §15, p40 

turnips, §15, p49 
Medium white sauce, §6, p30 

white sauce for vegetables, §14, pl8 
Menu, Breakfast, §8, p40 

Luncheon, §7, p27 
Methods of cooking applied to vegetables, 

§14, pl6 
Milk, §6, pi 

Adulteration of, §6, plO 

Albumin in, §6, p4 

and cream, Standard grading of, §6, p20 

caps, Sanitary, §6, p22 

Carbohydrate in, §6, p4 

Care of, §6, p22 

Casein in, §6, p4 

Certified, §6, pl4 



INDEX 



Vll 



Milk, Characteristics of wholesome, §6, p9 

Cleanliness of, §6, pll 

Composition and food value of skim, 
§6, P8 

Composition of, §6, p3 

Composition of whole, §6, p8 

composition. Standard of, §6, p9 

Condensed, §6, pl9 

Cooking, §6, p24 

Cow's, §6, pi 

dishes and sauces, Recipes for, §6, p27 

Evaporated, §6, pl9 

Fat in, §6, p4 

Foods containing, §6, p27 

Freshness of, §6, pll 

Grades of clean, §6, pl4 

in cooking, Ways of using, §6, p26 
' in the diet, §6, pi 

in the home, §6, p20 

in the home. Necessity for care of, §6, p22 

Mineral matter in, §6, p5 

Modified, §6, plS 

Pasteurized, §6, pl6 

Points to be observed in cooking, §6, p24 

Powdered, §6, p20 

Preserved, §6, pl9 

products. Comparison of food value of, 
§6. P9 

Products obtained from, §6, p6 

Protein in, §6, p4 

Purchase of, §6, p20 

Skim, §6, ppl, 6 

Sour, §6, p7 

Sterilized, §6, pl8 

Water in, §6, p5 

Whole, §6, pi 
Mineral matter in milk, §6, p5 

matter, or ash, *n vegetables, §14, p6 
Minerals in eggs, §8, pS 
Modified milk, §6, pl3 
Monkey, English, §7, p23 
Mushrooms, §15, pl3 

and chestnuts. Creamed, §15, pl5 

and their preparation, §15, pl3 

Broiled, §15, pl4 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

for cooking. Preparing, §15, pl4 

Sauted, §15, pl5 

Stewed, §15, pl5 

N 
Navy beans. Stewed, §14, p29 
Neufchatel cheese, §7, pl3 
New England boiled dinner, §15, pSl 
Nutritive value of eggs, §8, p3 

O 

Okra, §15, pl6 
Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
Preparation of, §15, pl6 



Okra, Stewed, §15, pl7 

with tomatoes, §15, pl7 
Oleomargarine, §7, p7 
Omelet, Cheese, §7, p20; §8, p31 

Plain, §8, p30 

Puff, §8, p30 

Tomato, §8, p32 
Omelets, Variety in, §8, p32 
Onion family. Varieties of the, §15, pl7 
Onions, §15, pl7 

Baked, §15, p21 

Boiled, §15, p21 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Creamed, §15, p21 

Dried, §15, pl8 

for flavoring, §15, p20 

for the table, §15, p20 

Green, §15, pl8 

Preparation of, §15, p20 

Stuffed, §15, p22 
Oyster, Vegetable, §15, p41 
Oysters, Corn, §14, p53 

Creamed vegetable, §15, p41 

Scalloped vegetable, §15, p42 



Parmesan cheese, §7, pl4 
Parsley, §15, p8 
Parsnips, §15, p22 

Browned, §15, p24 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Creamed, §15, p23 

Mashed, §15, p23 

Preparation of, §15, p22 
Pasteurized milk, §6, pl6 
Patties, Potato, §15, p34 
Peas, §15, p24 

and carrots, §15, p49 

and potatoes, §15, p51 

and their preparation, §15, p24 

Composition and food value of dried, 
§14, p9 

Creamed, §15, p25 

Dried, §15, p25 

Food value and composition of green, 
§14, p9 

Green, §15, p24 

in turnip cups, §15, p26 

puree, §15, p27 

souffle, §15, p27 
Peppercress, §15, p8 
Peppers, §15, p27 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Preparation of, §15, p27 

Stuffed, §15, p27 
Perishable vegetables, §14, pl2 
Phosphates, §6, p5 
Pickled beets, §14, p35 
Plain junket, §6, p27 

omelet, §8, p30 



INDEX 



Poached eggs, §8, p25 

eggs on toast, §8, p26 
Potash, §6, p5 
Potato balls, §15, p36 

croquettes, §15, p37 

patties, §15, p34 

puff, §15, p38 
Potatoes, §15, p29 

and peas, §15, p51 

and turnips, §15, p51 

au gratin, §15, p35 

Baked, §15, p32 

Baked sweet, §15, p39 

Boiled, §15, p30 

Boiled sweet, §15, p39 

Browned, §15, p32 

Care of, §15, p30 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Composition and food value of sweet, 
§14, p9 

Cooked sauted, §15, p34 

Creamed, §15, p36 

French fried, §15, p3S 

Glazed sweet, §15, p39 

Hash-browned, §7, p28 

Lyonnaise, §15, p35 
Mashed, §15, p31 

Mashed sweet, §15, p40 

Preparation of, §15, p30 

Raw sauted, §15, p34 

Scalloped, §15, p36 

Selection of, §15, p29 

Stuffed, §15, p32 

Sweet, §15, p38 

White, §15, p29 
Powdered eggs, §8, pl5 

milk, §6, p20 
Preparation and cooking of beets, §14, p34 

and cooking of cabbage, §14, p38 

and cooking of fresh shell beans, §14, p27 

and cooking of string beans, §14, p24 

and cooking of vegetables, General meth- 
ods of, §14, pl5 
of asparagus for cooking, §14, p21 
of beans, §14, p23 
of beets, §14, p33 
of Brussels sprouts, §14, p35 
of cabbage, §14, p37 
of carrots, §14, p43 
of cauliflower, §14, p45 
of celery, §14, pp47, 48 
of corn, §14, p49 
of cucumbers, §14, p54 
of eggplant, §14, pSS 

of eggs for cooking. Preliminary, §8, pl8 
of French artichokes, §14, p57 
of greens, §1S, pi 
of Jerusalem artichokes, §15, plO 
of kohlrabi, §15, plO 



Preparation of lentils, §15, pll 

of mushrooms, §15, pl3 

of mushrooms for cooking, §15, pl4 

of okra, §15, pl6 

of onions, §15, p20 

of parsnips, §15, p22 

of peas, §15, p24 

of peppers, §15, p27 

of potatoes, §15, p30 

of radishes, §15, p40 

of salsify, §15, p41 

of squash, §15, p42 

of tomatoes, §15, p45 

of turnips, §15, p48 
Preparing vegetables for cooking, §14, pl5 
Preservation of eggs, jS, pl3 

of eggs with lime water, §8, pl7 

of eggs with water glass, §8, pl7 
Preserved milk, §6, pl9 

Production, origin, and use of cheese, §7, p8 
Products, Comparison of food value of 
milk, §6, p9 

obtained from milk, §6, p6 
Protein in eggs, §8, p4 

in milk, |6, p4 

in vegetables, §14, p4 
Puff, Lentil, §15, pl3 

omelet, §8, p30 

Potato, §15, p38 
Pulp, Corn. §14, pS2 
Purchase of milk, §6, p20 

of vegetables, §14, plO 
Purchasing butter, §7, p3 
Puree, Bean, §14, p28 

Peas, §15, p27 
Purple cabbage, §14, p38 



Quality of cheese, §7, plO 
of eggs, §8, p8 

of eggs in the home. Judging the, §8, plO 
of eggs in the market. Judging the, §8, p9 



Radishes, §15, p40 

Food value and composition of, §14, p9 

Preparation of, §15, p40 
Rarebit, Welsh, §7, p22 
Raw sauted potatoes. §15, p34 
Recipes, Egg, §8, p25 

for cheese dishes, §7, pl8 

for junket, §6, p27 

for milk dishes and sauces. §6, p27 

for white sauce, §6, p30 
Renovated butter, §7, p7 
Root, tuber, and bulb vegetables, §14, pl3 
Roquefort cheese, §7, pl3 
Rotary, or Dover, egg beater, §8, p20 
Rutabagas, §15, p48 



INDEX 



IX 



Salsify, §15, p41 

Buttered, §15, p41 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Preparation of, §15, p41 
Sapsago cheese, §7, pl4 
Sandwiches, Cheese, §7, p27 
Sanitary milk caps, §6, p22 
Sauca, Black-butter, §14, pl9 

Cheese, §7, p21 

Drawn-butter, §14, pl9 

for creamed string beans, §14, p26 

for vegetables, Medium white, §14, pl8 

Hollandaise, §14, pl9 

Maitre d'hotel, §14, pl9 

Medium white, §6, p30 

Hecipes for white, §6, p30 

Thick white, §6, p30 

Thin white, §6, p30 

Tomato, §14, pl9 

Vegetable, §14, pl8 
Sauces and milk dishes, Recipes for, §6, p27 

for vegetables, §14, pl8 
Sauerkraut, Baked, §14, p42 

Making, §14, p41 

Sauted, §14, p42 

with spareribs, §14, p42 
Sauted eggplant, §14, p56 

mushrooms, §15, pl5 

sauerkraut, §14, p42 

summer squash, §15, p43 

tomatoes, §15, p47 
Savoy cabbage, §14, p38 
Scalloped asparagus, §14, p22 

Brussels sprouts, §14, p37 

cabbage, §14, p40 

cauliflower, §14, p46 

eggplant, §14, p57 

eggs, §8, p35 

potatoes, §15, p36 

tomatoes, §15, p46 

vegetable oysters, §15, p42 
Scrambled eggs, §8, p27 

eggs on toast, §8, p29 

eggs with ham, §8, p29 

eggs with tomato, §8, p2S 
Selection and care of beets, §14, p33 

and care of cabbage, §14, p38 

and care of string beans, §14, p34 

and cooking of cauliflower, §14, p45 

and preparation of carrots, §14, p43 

of eggs, §8, p6 

of potatoes, §15, p29 
Separating of eggs, §8, pl9 
Serving butter, §7, p5 

cheese, §7, pl8 

of eggs, §8, p23 

vegetables, §15, p52 
Shallots, §15, pl9 
Shell beans, §14. PP23, 26 



Shell beans dressed with butter, §14, p27 

beans in cream, §14, p28 

beans, Preparation and cooking of fresh, 
§14, p27 

beans. Varieties and food value of, §14, p26 
Shirred eggs with ham, §8, p36 
Skim milk, §6, ppl, 6 

milk, Composition and food value of, 
§6, p8 
Slaw, Hot, §14, p41 
Soft-cooked, or jellied, eggs, §8, p25 
Souffle, Bean, §14, p30 

Cheese, §7, p20 

Corn, §14, p52 

Egg, §8, p36 

Peas, §15, p27 

Spinach, §15, p7 
Soup, Cream-of-corn, §7, p28 
Sour-cream dressing, §14, pl9 

dressing, §14, p26 

milk, §6, p7 
Spinach, §15, p6 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Creamed, §15, p7 

Royal, §15, p7 

souffle, §15, p7 
Squash and its preparation, §15, p42 

Baked, §15, p44 

Composition and food value of summer, 
§14, p9 

Composition and food value of winter, 
§14, p9 

Mashed, §15, p44 

Sauted summer, §15, p43 

Stewed summer, §15, p43 

Summer, §15, p42 

Winter, §15, p43 
Standard grading of milk and cream, §6, p20 

of milk composition, §6, p9 
Sterilized milk, §6, pl8 
Stewed mushrooms, §15, pl5 

navy beans, §14, p29 

okra, §15, pl7 

summer squash, §15, p43 

tomatoes, §7, p28; §15, p4S 

turnips, §15, p48 
Stilton cheese, §7, pl2 
Straws, Cheese, §7, p2S 
Strictly fresh eggs, §8, p9 
String beans, §14, pp23, 24 

beans, corn, and tomatoes, §15, p51 

beans. Creamed, §14, p25 

beans in butter, §14, p25 

beans. Preparation and cooking of, §14, p24 

beans. Selection and care of, §14, p24 

beans, Varieties of, §14, p24 

beans with salt pork, §14, p25 

beans with sour dressing, §14, p26 
Structure, composition, and food value of 
vegetables, §14, p4 



INDEX 



Stuffed cucumbers, §14, p55 

eggs, §8, p33 

onions, §15, p22 

peppers, §15, p27 

potatoes, §15, p32 

tomatoes, §15, p46 

tomatoes with cheese carrots, §15, p46 
Substitutes, Butter, §7, p7 

Method of testing butter, §7, p8 
Succotash, §15, p50 
Succulent vegetables, §14, pl3 
Summer squash, §15, p42 

squash. Sauted, §15, p43 

squash, Stewed, §15, p43 
Sweet corn, §14, p49 

potatoes, §15, p38 

potatoes, Baked, §15, p39 

potatoes. Boiled, §15, p39 

potatoes, Glazed, §15, p39 

potatoes, Mashed, §15, p40 
Swiss chard. Composition and food value 
of, §14, p9 

cheeses, §7, pl4 
Switzer cheese, §7, pl4 

T 

Table showing composition and food value 

of vegetables, §14, p9 
Tea, Black. §7, p29 
Testing butter substitutes. Method of, 

§7, p8 
Thick white sauce, §6, p30 
Thin white sauce, §6, p30 
Toast, Cheese, §7, p21 
Tomato omelet, §8, p32 

sauce, §14, pl9 
Tomatoes, §15, p45 

and corn, §15, p51 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

corn, and string beans, §15, p5l 

Creamed, §15, p47 

Preparation of, §15, p4S 

Sauted, §15, p47 • 

Scalloped, §15. p46 

Stewed, §7, p28; §15, p45 

Stuffed, §15, p46 

with cheese carrots. Stuffed, §15, p46 

with cheese stuffing, §7, p26 
Tuber, root, and bulb vegetables, §14, pl3 
Turnip cabbage, §15, plO 
Turnips, §15, p48 

and potatoes, §15, p51 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 

Creamed, §15, p49 

Mashed, §15, p49 

Preparation of, §15, p48 

Stewed, §15, p48 

V 
Upland cress, §15, p8 
Use of butter. Economical, §7, pi 



Use, origin, and production of cheese, 
§7. p8 

V 

Value of eggs as food, §8, pi 

Varieties and food value of greens, §15, pi 

and food value of shell beans, §14, p26 

of beans, §14, p23 

of cheese, Classification of, §7, pU 

of greens, §15, pi 

of string beans, §14, p24 

of the onion family, §15, pl7 

of vegetables, §14, pl5 
Variety in omelets, §8, p32 

in vegetables, §14, pi 

of cheese dishes, §7, pl9 

of ways to use milk in cooking, §6, p26 
Vegetable albumin, §14, pS 

combinations, §1S, p49 

marrow, §15, p43 

oyster, §15, p41 

oysters. Creamed, §15, p41 

oysters. Scalloped, §15, p43 

sauce, §14, pl8 
Vegetables, §14, pi 

as food. Importance of, §14, pi 

as food, Preparation of, §15, pi 

Carbohydrates in, §14, p6 

Care of, §14, pl2 

Cellulose in, §14, p7 

Classification of, §14, pl3 

Composition of, §14, p4 

Digestibility of, §14, p8 

Effect of cooking on, §14, pl6 

Fat in, §14, pS 

Food value of, §14, p4 

for cooking, Preparing, §14, pl5 

Fruit and flower, §14, pl4 

Medium white sauce for, §14, pl8 

Methods of cooking applied to, §14, pl6 

Mineral matter, or ash, in, §14, p6 

Perishable, §14, pl2 

Preparation of, §14, pl5 

Protein in, §14, p4 

Purchase of, §14, plO 

Root, tuber, and bulb, §14, pl3 

Sauces for, §14, pl8 

Serving, §15, p52 

Structure of, §14, p4 

Succulent, §14, pl3 

Varieties of, §14, plS 

Variety in, §14, pi 

Water in, §14, p7 

Winter, §14, pl2 

W 

Wafers, Cheese, §7, p25 

Water glass. Preservation of eggs with, 
§8, pl7 
in milk, §6, p5 



INDEX 



XI 



Water in vegetables, §14, p7 
Watercress, §15, p8 

Composition and food value of, §14, p9 
Wax beans, §14, p24 
Welsh rarebit, §7, p22 
Whey, §6, ppS, 9 

Composition and food value of, §6, p8 
Whipping cream, §6, p6 
White cabbage. §14, p38 

potatoes, §15, p29 



White sauce for vegetables. Medium, §14, pl8 

sauce. Medium, §6, p30 

sauce. Recipes for, §6, p30 

sauce. Thick, §6, p30 

sauce. Thin, §6, p30 
Whole milk, §6, pi 

milk. Food value of, §6, p8 
^Vholesome milk. Characteristics of, §6, p9 
Winter squash, §15, p43 

vegetables, §14, pl2 





wmm; 



# 




ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell University 



V.5 



Woman's Institute library of cookery. 




3 1924 003 570 615 




^»^1 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003570615 



WOMAN'S Institute 
Library of Cooklry 




fruit and fruit de.55lrt5 

canning and drying 

jelly making, preserving, and pickling 

confections 

beverages 

the planning of meals 



WOMAN'S INSTITUTE 
OF DOMESTIC ARTS AND SCIENCES, Inc. 

SCRANTON. PA. 



317761 



Fniit and Fruit Desserts: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing 

Company. 
Canning and Drying: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational Publishing 

Company. 
Jelly Making, Preserving, and Pickling: Copyright, 1918, by International Educational 

Publishing Company. 
Confections: Copyright, 1919, by International Educational Publishing Company. 
Beverages: Copyright, 1919, by International Educational Publishing Company. 
The Planning of Meals: Copyright, 1919, by International Educational Publishing 

Company. 



Copyright in Great Britain 



All rights reserved 



Printed in U. S. A. 



Press of 
International Textbook Company 96663 

Scranton, Pa. 
5 



PRLFACL 



This volume, the fifth of the Woman's Institute Library of 
Cookery, deals with the varieties of fruits and the desserts that can 
be made from them, the canning and preserving of foods, the making 
of confections of every description, beverages and their place in 
the diet, and every phase of the planning of meals. 

With fruits becoming less seasonal and more a daily food, an 
understanding of them is of great value to the housewife. In 
Fruit and Fruit Desserts, she first learns their place in the diet, 
their nature, composition, and food value. Then she proceeds with 
the preparation and serving of every variety of fruit. Included in 
this section also are fruit cocktails, those refreshing appetizers 
often used to introduce a special meal. 

To understand how to preserve perishable foods in the seasons of 
plenty for the times when they are not obtainable is a valuable part 
of a housewife's knowledge. Canning and Drying deals with two 
ways of preserving foodstuffs, treating carefully the equipment 
needed and all the methods that can be employed and showing by 
means of excellent illustrations, one of them in natural colors, every 
part of the procedure followed. The fruits and vegetables that per- 
mit of canning, as well as certain meats and fish, are taken up in a 
systematic manner. 

Jelly Making, Preserving, and Pickling continues a discussion of 
the home preservation of foods, showing how they can be kept for 
long periods of time not by sterilization, but with the aid of pre- 
servatives. Each one of these methods is treated as to its principles, 
equipment, and the procedure to be followed. After trying the 
numerous recipes given, the housewife will be able to show with 
pride the results of her efforts, for nothing adds more to the 
attractiveness and palatability of a meal than a choice jelly, conserve, 
marmalade, or jam. 

iii 



iv PREFACE 

Confections deals with that very delightful and fascinating part of 
cookery — confection making. Not only are home-made confections 
cheaper than commercially made ones, but they usually contain more 
wholesome materials, so it is to the housewife's advantage to 
familiarize herself with the making of this food. Recipes are given 
for all varieties of confections, including taffies, caramels, cream 
candies, and the confections related to them. Fondant making is 
treated in detail with illustrations showing every step and directions 
for making many unusual kinds. 

Though beverages often receive only slight consideration, they 
are so necessary that the body cannot exist very long without them. 
In Beverages is discussed the relation of beverages to meals, the 
classes of beverages, and the preparation of those required by the 
human system, as well as the proper way to serve them. In addition 
to coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, and cereal beverages, fruit, soft, 
and nourishing drinks receive their share of attention. 

To be a successful home maker, it is not enough for a housewife 
to know how to prepare food ; she must also understand how to buy 
it, how to look after the household accounts, what constitutes correct 
diet for each member of her family, how to plan menus for her 
regular meals and for special occasions, and the essentials of good 
table service. All these things, and many more, she learns in 
The Planning of Meals, which completes this volume. 



CONTENTS 



Fruit and Fruit Desserts Section Page 

Fruit in the Diet 21 1 

Composition of Fruits 21 4 

Food Value of Fruits 21 8 

Preparing and Serving Fruits 21 11 

Blackberries 21 13 

Blueberries 21 14 

Cranberries 21 15 

Raspberries 21 16 

Strawberries ' 21 17 

Miscellaneous Berries 21 19 

Apples 21 21 

Apricots 21 23 

Cherries 21 24 

Grapes 21 25 

Peaches 21 27 

Pears 21 28 

Plums 21 28 

Quinces 21 29 

Rhubarb 21 30 

Grapefruit 21 32 

Lemons 21 35 

Oranges 21 36 

Miscellaneous Citrus Fruits 21 38 

Bananas 21 39 

Pineapples 21 41 

Miscellaneous Tropical Fruits 21 44 

Melons 21 46 

Fruit Cocktails 21 48 

Dates 21 50 

Figs 21 51 



V 



vi CONTENTS 

Fruit and Fruit Desserts — Continued Section Page 

Prunes 21 52 

Raisins 21 54 

Dried Apples, Apricots, and Peaches 21 54 

Canning and Drying 

Necessity for Preserving Foods 22 1 

Principles of Canning 22 5 

Greneral Equipment for Canning 22 7 

Open-Kettle Method 22 13 

Cold-Pack Method 22 14 

Procedure in the One-Period Cold-Pack Method 22 16 

Procedure in the Fractional-Sterilization Method 22 23 

Steam-Pressure Methods 22 23 

Canning with Tin Cans 22 25 

Oven Method 22 26 

Preparation for Canning 22 27 

Directions for Canning Vegetables 22 29 

Directions for Canning Fruits 22 37 

Sirups for Caiming Fruits 22 38 

Canning Meat and Fish 22 47 

Storing and Serving Canned Foods 22 48 

Scoring Canned Foods 22 49 

Principles of Drying 22 50 

Drying Methods 22 51 

Directions for Drying Vegetables and Fruits .... 22 54 

Storing and Cooking Dried Foods 22 55 

Jelly Making, Preserving, and Pickling 

Value of Jellies, Preserves, and Pickles 23 1 

Principles of Jelly Making 23 4 

Equipment for Jelly Making 23 5 

Procedure in Jelly Making 23 8 

Scoring Jelly 23 16 

Recipes for Jelly 23 18 

Principles of Preserving 23 21 

Preserves 23 23 

Conserves 23 26 

Marmalades 23 29 

Jams 23 31 



CONTENTS vii 

Jelly Making, Preserving, and Pickling 

— Continued Section Page 

Butters 23 33 

Principles of Pickling 23 36 

Recipes for Pickles , 23 37 

Recipes for Relishes 23 41 

Confections 

Nature of Confections 24 1 

Composition of Confections 24 3 

Foundation Materials in Confections 24 4 

Flavorings 24 6 

Colorings 24 8 

Acids 24 9 

Food Materials 24 9 

Equipment for Confection Making 24 13 

Cooking the Mixture 24 17 

Pouring and Cooling the Mixture 24 20 

Finishing Candies 24 21 

Taiifies and Similar Candies 24 26 

Caramels 24 32 

Fudge and Related Candies 24 34 

Fondant and Related Creams 24 37 

Miscellaneous Confections 24 49 

Serving Candy 24 53 

Beverages 

Nature and Classes of Beverages 25 1 

Water in Beverages 25 2 

Relation of Beverages to Meals 25 3 

Alcoholic Beverages 25 4 

Stimulating Beverages 25 6 

History and Production of Coffee 25 8 

Preparation of Coffee 25 11 

Serving Coffee 25 17 

History and Production of Tea 25 18 

Preparation of Tea 25 20 

Serving Tea 25 22 

Nature and Selection of Cocoa and Chocolate ... 25 25 

Preparation of Cocoa and Chocolate 25 26 



viii CONTENTS 

Beverages — Continued Section Pag^ 

Serving Cocoa and Chocolate 25 ^0 

Cereal Beverages 25 ^^ 

Ingredients for Fruit Beverages 25 32 

Preparation of Fruit Beverages 25 34 

Soft Drinks 25 37 

Nourishing Beverages 25 38 

The Planning of Meals 

Necessity for Careful Meal Planning 26 1 

Successful Marketing 26 3 

Keeping Household Accounts 26 4 

Factors Influencing Cost of Foods 26 10 

Economical Buying 26 13 

Suitability of Food 26 18 

Composition of Food 26 20 

Balancing the Diet 26 22 

Diet for Infants and Children 26 29 

Diet for the Family 26 32 

Proportion of Food Substances 26 33 

General Rules for Menu Making 26 35 

Card-File System for Menu Making 26 37 

Dinner Menus 26 38 

Luncheon Menus 26 40 

Breakfast Menus 26 42 

Menus for Special Occasions 26 44 

Table Service 26 51 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



FRUIT IN THE DIET 



1. Fruit, as is generally understood, is the fleshy, juicy product 
of some plant or tree which, when ripe, is suitable for use as food. 
Although some fruits are seedless, they generally contain the seeds 
of the plants or trees that produce them. Many fruits require cook- 
ing to make them palatable, others are never cooked, and still others 
may be cooked or eaten raw, as desired. 

Fruits, because they are wholesome, appetizing, and attractive, 
occupy a valuable place in the diet. In fact, it is these qualities 
rather than their food value that accounts for the popularity of 
fruits among all people. In addition to causing fruits to appeal to 
the esthetic sense, their attractiveness serves another important 
purpose. It is said that Nature made them attractive in color, odor, 
and flavor in order that birds might be allured to attack them for 
food and, by spreading the seeds, assist in their propagation. 

2. Fruits are gradually growing to be less seasonal and more a 
daily food, and are thus constantly becoming more prevalent in the 
diet. This condition may be attributed to the present rapid means 
of transportation and the excellent methods of cold storage that 
exist. Through these agencies it is possible to ship more or less 
perishable fruits long distances from their native localities and at 
times of the year other than the particular season in which they are 
at their best in the places where they are grown. Thus, fruits that 
were formerly considered a luxury may now be served regularly, 
even on the tables of persons having only moderate means. 

The fact that fruits are being more extensively used every day is 
as it should be, for this food is entitled to an important place in the 
diet of all persons. So important is fruit in the diet that it must be 
looked on not as one of the things that may be taken or omitted as 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§21 
•vT— cs— a 



2 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS §21 

a person wishes without making any difference either way, but 
as a food to include in one form or another in nearly every meal. 
The child who is so young that it cannot take any solid food may 
have fruit juices included in its diet to decided advantage; but 
children who are slightly older and adults may take the fruits cooked 
or raw instead of in the form of juices. 

3. As far as the composition of fruits is concerned, it is such 
that most fresh fruits are not particularly high in food value. How- 
ever, they are characterized by other qualities that make up for what 
they lack in this respect ; then, too, what they contain in the way of 
heat-producing or tissue-building material is easily digestible. Most 
fruits contain considerable acid, and this food substance makes them 
stimulating to the appetite. Advantage of this fact is taken when 
fruits are served at the beginning of a breakfast or when several of 
them are combined in a fruit cocktail and served before luncheon 
or dinner. This acid produces real stimulation in the stomach, 
resulting in a flow of gastric juice from the glands of the stomach 
walls. In addition, the delightful color, the fragrant odor, or the 
pleasant taste of fruit, although a mental effect, is just as real and 
just as valuable as the actual stimulation of the acids. 

4. Many fruits are eaten raw, while others are cooked either 
because they require cooking to make them appetizing or because it 
is desired not to use them in their raw state. The cooking of fruits 
has a variety of effects on them, being sometimes advantageous and 
other times detrimental. The flavor is always changed by the appli- 
cation of heat, and in some cases the acid that fruit contains becomes 
stronger. On the other hand, the fibrous material, or cellulose, of 
fruits is softened by cooking and thus becomes more digestible. 
Then, too, the sugar that is usually added to fruits in their cooking 
increases their food value. Because of these facts, cooked fruits 
have considerable value and, like raw fruits, should have an impor- 
tant place in the diet. Those fruits which are dried and usually 
eaten raw, such as figs and dates, supply much nourishment in an 
easily digestible form. 

5. The medicinal value of fruit has long been considered to be 
of importance, but this may be almost entirely disregarded, for, with 
the exception of the fact that most fruits are valuable as a laxative, 
there is nothing to consider. However, several fruits, such as black- 
berries and bananas, have an anti-laxative effect, and large quantities 



§21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 3 

of these should for the most part be avoided, especially in the feeding 
of children. 

6. In general, fruits are divided into two classes, namely, food 
fruits and flavor fruits. As their names imply, food fruits are valu- 
able as food, whereas flavor fruits are those distinguished by a 
characteristic flavor. It should be remembered that the flavors, as 
well as the odors, of fruits, are due chiefly to what is known as 
their volatile, or ethereal, oils. Fruits in which these oils are very 
strong are often irritating to certain persons and cause distress of 
some sort after eating. 

7. In this Section, it is the purpose to acquaint the housewife 
with the relative value and uses of the various kinds of fruit, to 
teach her the best methods of preparation, and to supply her with 
recipes that will encourage her to make greater use of this valuable 
food in. her family's diet. In this discussion, however, the general 
classification of fruits is not followed. Instead, the various fruits 
are arranged alphabetically under the headings Berries, Non-Tropical 
Fruits, Citrus Fruits, Tropical Fruits, Melons, and Dried Fruits, in 
order to simplify matters. While it is hardly possible to use fruits 
too extensively, they must not be allowed to take the place of other 
more nourishing foods that are required by the body. Therefore, in 
order to make proper use of them, their value in the diet should not 
be overlooked. 

NATURE OF FRUITS 



ADVANCE IN FRUIT CULTIVATION 

8. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between vegetables and 
fruits. For instance, the tomato is in reality a fruit, but it is com- 
monly used as a vegetable, and rhubarb is more of a vegetable than 
a fruit, but it is always used as a fruit. It can therefore be seen 
that the line between vegetables and fruits is not clearly drawn. It 
is well to remember that fruit is usually the edible pulpy mass 
covering the seeds of various plants and trees, and that it is gener- 
ally cooked or eaten raw with sugar, whereas vegetables are seldom 
sweetened in cooking. 

9. Great strides have been made in the cultivation of fruit. 
Many varieties that formerly grew wild are now commonly culti- 



4 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

vated. Most of the cultivated fruits are superior to the same kind 
in the wild state, at least in size and appearance, but often there 
seems to be a loss of flavor. Through cultivation, some fruits that 
were almost inedible in their wild state on account of containing so 
many seeds have been made seedless. Also, through cross-cultiva- 
tion, varieties of fruit different from what formerly existed have 
been obtained. An example of such fruit is the loganberry which 
is a cross between a red raspberry and a blackberry and retains 
many of the qualities of each. However, some small fruits, such as 
blueberries, or huckleberries, are still grown wild and marketed only 
from their wild source. 

10, While fruit is usually improved by cultivation, there has 
been a tendency through this means to produce fruits that will stand 
up for long periods of time, so that they may be marketed at great 
distances from the place where they are grown. For instance, apples, 
especially those found in the market in the spring, and other fruits, 
which look very fine, will many times be found to have a tough skin 
and to be almost tasteless. 

In general, fruits of delicate flavor and texture cannot be kept 
very long after they have ripened. To stand shipping, they must 
be picked in their green stage; then if they are kept in the right 
temperature they will ripen after picking. Bananas that are to be 
shipped a long distance are picked when perfectly green, but by the 
time the consumer buys them they are usually well ripened. In 
addition to bananas, a few other tropical fruits are shipped out of 
their native climates in small numbers and are sold at very high 
prices. However, many tropical fruits cannot be shipped to the 
Northern States because of their perishable nature. 



COMPOSITION AND FOOD VALUE OF FRUITS 



COMPOSITION OP FRUITS 

11. The composition of fruits is a matter of considerable impor- 
tance, for on it the food value of the fruits depends. To a certain 
extent, the composition of all fruits is the same, but the varieties 
of this food differ in tlieir food values almost as greatly as do vege- 
tables. Many of them are extremely low in this respect, while a few 
of them are rather high. In order to determine the place that fruit 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 5 

should have in a meal, it is necessary to obtain a definite idea of the 
composition as well as the food value of the different varieties. 

12. Protein and Fat in Fruits. — Such small quantities of 
protein and fat are contained in fruits that very little attention need 
be given to these substances. Exceptions are found in avocados, or 
alligator pears, and in ripe olives, both of which are high in fat. 
Then, too, there is a small amount of protein in grapes and some 
other fruits, but it is not sufficient to merit consideration. 

13. Carbohydrate in Fruit. — Whatever food value fruits 
may have, whether it be high or low, is due to the carbohydrate they 
contain. Some green fruits and bananas contain a very small amount 
of starch, but on the whole the carbohydrate of fruits is in the form 
of sugar and is in solution in the fruit juices. The chief form of 
this carbohydrate is known as levulose, or fruit sugar. However, 
glucose, another form of sugar, is also found in nearly all fruits, 
grapes and dried fruits, such as figs, raisins, etc., containing an 
unusually large amount. In addition, cane sugar is contained in the 
majority of fruits. Pectin is also a carbohydrate that is found in 
large quantities in some fruits, while in other fruits it is lacking. 
This substance is related to the gums and to cellulose. Although it 
is one of the carbohydrates from which no food value is derived, 
it is of considerable importance, because it is responsible for the 
jelly-making properties of fruits. 

14. In fruits that are not fully matured, or, in other words, green 
fruits, the sugar has not developed to so great an extent as it has in 
perfectly ripe fruits. Consequently, such fruits are not so high in 
food value as they are when they become ripe. As is well known, 
it is the sugar of fruits that accounts for their sweet taste, for 
the sweeter the fruits, the more sugar and the less acid they contain. 
The quantity of this substance varies from 1 per cent, in lemons to 
20 per cent, in some other fresh fruits, such as plums. In dried 
fruits, the amount of sugar is much higher, reaching as high as 
60 per cent, or even more in such fruits as figs, dates, and raisins. 

15. Cellulose in Fruit. — In fruits, as in vegetables, cellulose 
is found in varying quantities. The larger the quantity, the lower 
will be the food value of the fruit, except where the water has been 
evaporated, as in the case of dried fruits. The digestibility of this 
cellulose, however, is not worth considering, for, while it is possible 



6 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS §21 

that small amounts of very young and tender cellulose from 
fruits may be digested, on the whole this characteristic may be dis- 
regarded. The skins and seeds of fruits, as well as the coarse 
material that helps to make up the pulp, are known as refuse and 
are treated as such by the human digestive tract ; but it is to this 
waste material, or cellulose, that the laxative quality of fruit is 
largely due. 

In cases where there are digestive or intestinal troubles, it is often 
necessary to remove the cellulose before the fruit is eaten. The 
coarse material may be removed and that which is more tender may 
be broken up by pressing the fruit through a sieve or a strainer of 
some kind. The cooking of fruits is another means of making the 
cellulose in them more easily digested, for it softens, or disintegrates, 
the various particles of the indigestible material. When fruit is 
taken for its laxative effect and the irritation of the cellulose needs 
no consideration, the skins of the fruits may be eaten instead of 
being rejected. However, to avoid any trouble, they should be well 
chewed. 

16. Minerals In Fruit. — ^All fruits contain a certain percen- 
tage of mineral salts. The quantity varies in the different kinds of 
fruits, but it averages about 1 per cent. These salts have the 
opposite effect on the blood from those found in meats and cereals, 
but they act in much the same way as the minerals of vegetables. In 
other words, they have a tendency to render the blood more alkaline 
and less acid. They are therefore one of the food constituents that 
help to make fruit valuable in the diet and should be retained as 
far as possible in its preparation. In fact, any method that results 
in a loss of minerals is not a good one to adopt in the preparation 
of fruits. 

The minerals commonly found in fruits are iron, lime, sodium, 
magnesium, potash, and phosphorus. These are in solution in the 
fruit juices to a very great extent, and when the juices are extracted 
the minerals remain in them. 

17. Acids in Fruit. — Some fruits contain only a small amount 
of acid, while others contain larger quantities. It is these acids, 
together with the sugar and the volatile oils of fruits, that constitute 
the entire flavor of this food. Most ripe fruits contain less acid 
than unripe ones, and cooked fruits are often higher in acid than the 
same fruits when raw. 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



Numerous kinds of acid are found in the dififerent varieties of 
fruits. For example, lemons, oranges, grapefruit, and a few other 
fruits belonging to the class known as citrus fruits contain citric 
acid; peaches, plums, apricots, and apples, malic acid; and grapes 
and many other fruits, tartaric acid. 

TABLE I 

COMPOSITION AND FOOD VALUE OP FRUITS 



Fruit 



Apples, fresh 

Apples, dried 

Apricots, fresh . . . 
Apricots, dried . . . 

Bananas 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Cranberries 

Currants 

Dates 

Figs, fresh 

Figs, dried 

Grapefruit 

Grapes 

Huckleberries . . . . 

Lemons 

Muskmelons 

Nectarines 

Oranges 

Peaches 

Pears 

Persimmons 

Pineapple 

Plums 

Pomegranates . . . . 

Prunes, fresh 

Prunes, dried 

Raisins 

Raspberries, red . . 
Raspberries, black 

Rhubarb 

Strawberries 

Watermelon 



Water 


Protein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Mineral 
Matter 


84.6 


.4 


.5 


14.2 


.3 


28.1 


1.6 


2.2 


66.1 


2.0 


85.0 


1.1 




13.4 


.5 


29.4 


4.7 


1.0 


62.5 


2.4 


75.3 


1.3 


.6 


22.0 


.8 


86.3 


1.3 


1.0 


10.9 


.5 


80.9 


1.0 


.8 


16.7 


.6 


88.9 


.4 


.6 


9.9 


.2 


85.0 


1.5 




12.8 


.7 


15.4 


2.1 


2.8 


78.4 


1.3 


79.1 


1.5 




18.8 


.6 


18.8 


4.3 


.3 


74.2 


2.4 


86.9 


.8 


.2 


11.6 


.5 


77.4 


1.3 


1.6 


19.2 


.5 


81.9 


.6 


.6 


16.6 


.3 


89.3 


1.0 


.7 


8.5 


.5 


89.5 


.6 




9.3 


.6 


82.9 


.6 




15.9 


.6 


86.9 


.8 


.2 


11.6 


.5 


89.4 


.7 


.1 


9.4 


.4 


84.4 


.6 


.5 


14.1 


.4 


66.1 


.8 


.7 


31.5 


.9 


89.3 


.4 


.3 


9.7 


.3 


78.4 


1.0 




20.1 


.5 


76.8 


1.5 


1.6 


19.5 


.6 


79.6 


.9 




18.9 


.6 


22.3 


2.1 




73.3 


2.3 


14.6 


2.6 


3.3 


76.1 


3.4 


85.8 


1.0 




12.6 


.6 


84.1 


1.7 


1.0 


12.6 


.6 


94.4 


.6 


.7 


3.6 


.7 


90.4 


1.0 


.6 


7.4 


.6 


92.4 


.4 


.2 


6.7 


.3 



Food Value 
per Pound, 
in Calories 



290 
1,350 
270 
1,290 
460 
270 
365 
215 
265 
1,615 
380 
1,475 
240 
450 
345 
205 
185 
305 
240 
190 
295 
630 
200 
395 
460 
370 
1,400 
1,605 
255 
310 
105 
180 
140 



18. The juice of fruits that contain very little sugar and a large 
quantity of acid, such as the lemon, may be used for the seasoning 
of food in much the same way that vinegar is used. It may also be 
diluted with other liquids and used for a beverage. Then, again, 
various kinds of fruit juices are subjected to a process of fermen- 



8 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

tation and, through the production of another acid, are made into 
vinegar and wines. When apples are treated in this way, the fer- 
mentation produces acetic acid and, in addition, a certain amount of 
alcohol. It is on this principle that the making of wines depends. 

19. "Water In Fruit. — The water content of fresh fruits is 
very high, reaching 94 per cent, in some varieties. Dried fruits, on 
the other hand, contain much less water, their content being in some 
cases as low as 15 to 20 per cent. It naturally follows that the fruits 
low in water are high in food value, while those containing consider- 
able water have in their composition less of the material that adds 
food value. The high percentage of water in fresh fruits, together 
with the acids they contain, accounts for the fact that these fruits 
are so refreshing. Fruits of this kind, in addition to having this 
refreshing quality, help to provide the necessary liquid in the diet. 

20. Table Showing Composition and. rood Value of 
Fruits. — Just as fruits vary in their composition, so do they vary in 
their food value. This fact is clearly shown in Table I, which gives 
the percentage of food substances contained in different fruits and 
the food value per pound, in calories, that these fruits contain. As 
in the table showing the composition and food value of vegetables 
given in Vegetables, Part 1, the figures in this table are taken from 
Atwater's Table of American Food Materials and refer to the edible 
part of the material. Reference to Table I, as progress is made with 
the study of fruits and their preparation, will be of much assistance 
in learning the place that fruits occupy in the dietary. 



FOOD VALUE OF" FRUITS 



21. Effect of Bipeness on Fruits. — There is a very marked 
difference between ripe and green fruits as to their composition, 
flavor, texture, palatability, and digestibility. Green fruits, contain- 
ing more acid than ripe ones, serve some purposes for which ripe 
fruits of the same variety cannot be used so well. For instance, a 
very much better jelly can be made from grapes that are not entirely 
ripe than from those which have completely ripened. Green fruits 
contain less sugar than do ripe ones, and so they are more sour to 
the taste. In some cases, the carbohydrate found in green fruits is 
partly in the form of starch, which in the process of development is 
changed to sugar. The cellulose of green fruits, especially that dis- 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 9 

tributed throughout the pulp of the fruit itself, is usually tougher and 
harder than that which is found in the same fruit after it has ripened. 

22. Digestibility of Fruits. — The ripeness and freshness of 
fruits determine their digestibility to a great extent, but the peculi- 
arities of each person have much to do with this matter. Many 
times a particular fruit will agree with almost every one but a few 
exceptional persons, and, for no apparent reason except their 
own peculiarities of digestion, it disagrees very badly with them. 
Abnormal conditions of the alimentary tract, however, cannot be 
taken into consideration in a general discussion on the digestibility 
of foods, for it is a subject that cannot be treated except from a 
dietetic standpoint. A safe rule to follow when a fruit is found to 
disagree with a person is to omit it from that person's diet. This 
need not prove a hardship, for the wide range, or variety, of fruits 
makes it possible to find one or more kinds that will agree with each 
person. 

23. As has been explained, sugar is the food material from 
which the nutritive value of fruits is obtained. With the exception 
of a few predigested foods, manufactured in such a way that they 
can be digested easily, this sugar is probably the most easily digested 
form of food that can be obtained. This substance, being held in 
solution in the fruit juices, which are encased in a cellulose covering, 
depends to some extent for its digestion on the hardness of the cellu- 
lose. When this covering is old and hard or green and tough, as the 
case may be, it is difficult for the digestive juices to break through 
and attack the sugar contained inside. As this difficulty is not 
encountered when fruit is fresh and ripe, its freshness and ripeness 
become important factors in digestibility. Cooking is also an impor- 
tant factor because it softens the cellulose, but there are certain 
other changes made by cooking that must be taken into consideration 
as well. 

24. Effect of Cooking- on Fruit. — Cooking affects fruits in 
numerous ways, depending on the condition of the fruit itself, the 
method used, and the length of time the heat is applied. When fruits 
are cooked in water or in a thin sirup, the cellulose becomes softened. 
On the other hand, if they are cooked in a heavy sirup, as, for 
instance, in the making of preserves, the cellulose becomes hardened 
and the fruit, instead of breaking up, remains whole or nearly so 



10 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

and becomes tough and hard in texture. The addition of quantities 
of sugar, as in the latter case, besides helping to keep the fruit whole, 
increases its food value. 

25. Another change that usually takes place when fruit is cooked 
is in its flavor. This change is due either to an increase in the acid 
contained in the fruit or to a decrease in the amount of sugar. Some 
authorities believe that cooking increases the amount of acid, while 
others hold the view that, when fruit is cooked without removing 
the skins and seeds, the acid contained in the seeds and skins and 
not noticeable when the fruit is fresh, is released during the cooking. 
Such is undoubtedly the case with plums. The change that is 
brought about in the sugar by the cooking of fruits consists in 
changing the cane sugar into levulose and dextrose, which are not so 
sweet. This change accounts for the fact that some cooked fruits 
are less sweet than others, in spite of the fact that the acid does not 
seem to be increased. 

26. In addition to producing certain changes in fruit, cooking, 
if done thoroughly, renders fruits sterile, as it does other foods ; that 
is, it kills any bacteria that the fruits may contain. Advantage of 
this fact is taken when fruits are canned for future use. Although 
most persons prefer raw fruit to that which is cooked, there are 
some who object to eating this food raw, but who are not always 
certain as to the reason for their objection. Like other raw foods, 
fruits in their fresh state contain vitamines; that is, a substance that 
helps to keep the body in a healthy, normal condition. These are 
found to some extent in cooked fruits, but not in the same quantity 
as in raw ones ; consequently, as much use as possible should be 
made of raw fruits in the diet. 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 11 



FRUITS AND THEIR PREPARATION AS FOOD 



PREPARING AND SERVING 

27. Required Sanitary Conditions. — Since large quantities 
of fruits are eaten raw, it is necessary that they be handled in the 
most sanitary manner if disease from their use be prevented. How- 
ever, they are often in an unsanitary condition when they reach the 
housewife. For instance, they become contaminated from the soiled 
hands of the persons who handle them, from the dirt deposited on 
them during their growth, from the fertilizer that may be used on the 
soil, from flies and other insects that may crawl over them, and 
from being stored, displayed, or sold in surroundings where they 
may be exposed to the dirt from streets and other contaminating 
sources. Because of the possibility of all these sources of contam- 
ination, it is essential that fruits that are not to be cooked be 
thoroughly washed before they are eaten. It is true that a certain 
amount of flavor or food material may be lost from the washing, 
but this is of little importance compared with the possibility of 
preventing disease. 

28. Washing Fruits. — The manner of washing fruits depends 
largely on the nature of the fruit. Fruits that have a sticky surface, 
such as raisins, figs, and dates, usually have to be washed in several 
waters. Hard fruits, such as pears, apples, plums, etc., should be 
washed with running water. Berries and softer fruits require more 
careful procedure, it usually being advisable to pour them into a 
pan containing water and then, after stirring them around in the 
water until all dirt is removed, take them from the water, rather 
than pour the water from them. In any event, all fruits eaten raw 
should be properly washed. 

29. Serving Fruits. — While the serving of fruits is a simple 
matter, it should be done in as dainty a way as possible, so as not to 
detract from their natural attractiveness. If the skins are to remain 



12 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

on the fruits while serving, a knife, preferably a fruit knife, should 
be served with them, and nothing smaller than a salad plate should 
be used. The carefully washed leaves of the fruit served make an 
attractive garnish. For instance, large, perfect strawberries with 
the stems on, when heaped on a plate garnished with strawberry 
leaves and served with a small dish of powdered sugar, are always 
attractive. Likewise, a bunch of grapes served on grape leaves 
never fails to attract. 

A mixture of a number of fruits, such as peaches, pears, and 
plums, or, in winter, .oranges, bananas, and apples, piled in a large 
bowl and passed after salad plates have been distributed, not only 
makes an excellent dessert, but permits the persons served to take 
their choice. 

Fresh berries, sliced peaches, bananas, oranges, etc. may be served 
in sauce dishes, which should be placed on a service plate. They 
may be passed or served from a bowl by the hostess. Canned or 
stewed fruits may be served in the same way. 



BERRIES 



NATURE AlVD CARE 

30. Berries are among the most perishable fruits and begin to 
come into market early in the summer season. In most localities, 
the berry season begins with strawberries and ends with blackberries. 
Because the numerous varieties are somewhat juicy and soft and 
therefore extremely perishable, they will not stand shipping and 
storage for long periods of time. The quality of berries depends 
much on the nature of the season, as well as on the locality in which 
the berries are grown. If there is a good supply of rain, the berries 
will be very moist, containing a large amount of pulp in proportion 
to seeds and skins; but if the season is very dry, the berries are 
likely to be less moist and consequently less palatable. A general 
use of berries, and to almost every one the most important, is the 
making of jams, jellies, and preserves. 

In the preparation of berries for the table, they should be handled 
as little as possible in order to prevent them from breaking up and 
losing their shape. After being purchased, they should be kept 
where it is cool until they are to be used. It is advisable not to wash 



5 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 13 

them until just before serving, as the extra handling usually bruises 
them and causes them to spoil. 

The different varieties of berries are here taken up in alphabetical 
order so as to make the matter easy for reference. Those of 
which extensive use is made contain one or more recipes that may be 
followed without any hesitation. In a few instances, as in the case of 
currants, recipes are not included, as the fruits are limited to only 
a few uses and directions for these occur elsewhere. 



BliACKBERRIBS 

31. Blackberries come late in the summer season. Good 
varieties of cultivated blackberries, which are large in size and con- 
tain comparatively few seeds, are the best for use. However, in 
some localities, uncultivated blackberries grow in sufKcient quanti- 
ties to be useful for food. Blackberries are used extensively for 
jam, as they make an excellent kind that appeals to most persons. 
Their juice may be used for jelly, but if the berries are to be utilized 
most successfully in this way they must be picked before they are 
thoroughly ripe or some fruit that will supply an additional quantity 
of pectin may have to be combined with them. Fresh blackberries 
may be served for dessert with sugar and cream. Otherwise, the 
use of this fruit in desserts is not very extensive, except where the 
canned berries are used for pastry or pie or are eaten for sauce or 
where the jam is used in making up various dessert dishes. 

Very little preparation is necessary in getting blackberries ready to 
serve. They should simply be looked over carefully, so that all 
imperfect ones and all foreign matter may be removed, and then 
washed in cold water. 

32. Blackberry Sponge. — One of the few desserts made from 
fresh blackberries is that explained in the accompanying recipe and 
known as blackberry sponge. This is very delicious, for the berries 
are combined with cake and the combination then served with 
whipped cream. 

Blackberry Sponge 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. blackberries 4 pieces plain loaf or 

f c. sugar sponge cake 

1 c. water Whipped cream 



14 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

Heat half of the berries with the sugar and the water until they 
are mushy. Then force the whole through a sieve. Cut the cake 
into cubes and put them into a bowl. Pour the juice and the black- 
berry pulp on the cake. Press the mixture down with a spoon until 
it is quite solid and set in the refrigerator or some other cold place 
to cool. Turn out of the bowl on a large plate, garnish with the 
remaining berries, heap with the whipped cream, and serve. 



BliUBBBRRIBS 

33. Blueberries, which are not cultivated, but grow in the 
wild, state, are a many-seeded berry, blue or bluish-black in color. 
Huckleberries, although belonging to a different class, are commonly 
regarded as blueberries by many persons. Berries of this kind occur 
in many varieties. Some grow on low bushes close to the ground, 
others are found on taller bushes, and still others grow on v;ry tall 
bushes. Again, some grow in dry ground in a mountainous region, 
others grow in a level, sandy soil, and other varieties succeed better 
on swampy soil. Berries of this class are not so perishable as most 
other berries, but in many localities they cannot be purchased at 
all, for, as a rule, they are used only in the immediate vicinity in 
which they grow. 

Blueberries have small seeds and coarse, tough skins. They con- 
tain very little acid, but are excellent for pies and sauce. However, 
they will make jelly very well if there are a few partly ripe berries 
among them, and their flavor is improved if some fruit containing' 
acid is added to them. To prepare them for use, whether they are 
to be served raw or cooked, look them over carefully in order that 
all green or spoiled ones are removed and then wash them well in 
cold water. 

34. Pressed Blueberry Pudding. — A delicious pudding can 
be made by combining blueberries with slices of bread. The accom- 
panying recipe gives directions for pudding of this kind. 

Pressed Blueberry Pudding 
(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1 qt. blueberries 8 slices bread 

1 c. water Whipped cream 

■J c. sugar 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 15 

Put the blueberries, water, and sugar into a saucepan and boil for 
a few minutes. Put four of the slices of bread, which should be cut 
about i inch thick, in the bottom of a square pan. Pour one-half 
of the blueberries and the juice over the bread, and put the four 
remaining slices of bread on top of the berries. Pour the rest of the 
blueberries and juice over the bread. Place another square pan over 
the top and weight it down so as to press the pudding. Then set 
the pudding in the refrigerator until it is cool. Cut into squares, 
remove from the pan, and serve with sweetened whipped cream. 

35. Blueberry Pudding. — A baking-powder-biscuit dough 
baked with blueberries makes a very appetizing dessert. To serve 
with a pudding of this kind, a cream or a hard sauce should be made 

Blueberry Pudding 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

Baking-powder-biscuit dough J c. sugar 

1 qt. blueberries 

Make a rather thin baking-powder-biscuit mixture. Spread a 
layer of this in the bottom of a square pan and cover it with a layer 
of the blueberries. Pour J cupful of the sugar over the berries and 
then cover with another layer of the dough. Over this, pour the 
remainder of the berries and sprinkle the rest of the sugar over all. 
Place in the oven and bake for about 20 minutes. Remove from 
the oven, cut into squares, and serve with cream or hard sauce. 



CRANBRRRIBS 



36. Cranberries grow wild in many localities, but most persons 
who use them buy them in the market as a cultivated fruit. Their 
season begins in the fall and lasts until early spring, and during this 
time they can usually be obtained in the market. They contain con- 
siderable acid and consequently require a great deal of sugar to 
make them sufficiently sweet to be palatable. They are more often 
served as an accompaniment to a dinner course, especially with 
turkey or other poultry, than eaten as a sauce. At times they 
are used in the making of muffins, pudding, and various kinds 
of pastry. 

One of the advantages of cranberries is that they keep very well 
in the raw state. However, before they are cooked, they should be 



16 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

looked over carefully, freed of any stems, foreign material, and 
spoiled berries, and then washed thoroughly in cold water. 

37. Cranberry Sauce. — One can hardly imagine a turkey 
dinner without cranberry sauce as one of the accompaniments; 
but it may be served when meats other than turkey are used. In 
fact, because of its tart flavor, it forms a most appetizing addition 
to any meal. 

Cranberry Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 J c. water 2 c. sugar 

4 c. cranberries 

Add the water to the cranberries and place over the fire to cook 
in a closely covered kettle. As soon as the skins of the berries have 
cracked, add the sugar. Cook slowly for a few minutes or until the 
sugar is completely dissolved. Remove from the fire and cool before 
serving. 

38. Cranberry Jelly. — If the cranberries are preferred with- 
out the skins, cranberry jelly should be tried. When cool, this 
solidifies and may be served in attractive ways. 

Cranberry Jelly 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. water 2 c. sugar 

1 qt. cranberries 

Pour the water over the cranberries and cook them for 10 or 
15 minutes. Then mash them through a sieve or a colander with a 
wooden potato masher. Add the sugar to the mashed cranberries. 
Return to the heat and cook for 5 to 8 minutes longer. Turn into 
a mold and cool. 



RASPBERRIES 

39. Raspberries come in two general varieties, which are 
commonly known as red and Hack. There are many species of each 
kind, and all of them are much favored, as they are delicious fruit. 
As a raw fruit, raspberries have their most satisfactory use, but 
they may be made into several excellent desserts and they are also 
much used for canning and preserving. They are a perishable fruit 
and so do not keep well. Because of their softness, they have to be 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 17 

washed very carefully to prevent them from breaking o ■ becom- 
ing mushy. 

40. Red-Raspberry Whip. — No more dainty dessert can be 
made than raspberry whip, which is explained in the accompanying 
recipe. Cake that is not very rich, su'^.h as ladyfingers or sponge 
cake, makes a very good accompaniment for this dessert. 

Red-Raspberry Whip 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. raspberries 2 egg whites 

1 c. powdered sugar 

Put the raspberries, sugar, and egg whites into a bowl. Mash the 
berries before starting to whip. Beat the mixture with an egg whip 
until it is reduced to a pulpy mass and is stiff and fluffy. Pile lightly 
into a bowl, chill, and serve with ladyfingers or sponge cake. 

41. Raspberry Shortcake. — Either black or red raspberries 
make a delicious shortcake when combined with a cake or a biscuit 
mixture. Directions for making such a shortcake are given in the 
accompanying recipe. 

Raspberry Shortcake 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. raspberries Biscuit or plain- 

1 c. sugar cake dough 

Mash or chop the berries, as preferred, and add the sugar to 
them. Bake the biscuit or plain-cake dough in a single, thick layer, 
and when it has been removed from the pan split it into halves with 
a sharp knife. Spread half the berries between the two pieces of 
biscuit or cake and the remaining half on top. Cut into pieces of 
the desired size and serve with plain or whipped cream. 



STRAWBBRRIB S 

42. Strawberries are perhaps more popular than any other 
kind of berry. They are reddish in color, have a somewhat acid 
flavor, and range in size from i inch to 2 inches in diameter. Straw- 
berries are much used for jams and preserves; they may also be 
used for making a delicious jelly, but as they lack pectin this ingre- 
dient must be supplied. These berries are eaten fresh to a great 

wi— cs— 3 



18 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



§21 



extent, but are also much used for pastry making and for various 
kinds of dessert; in fact, there is practically no limit to the number 
of recipes that may be given for strawberries. Before they are used 
in any way, they should be washed thoroughly in cold water and 
then their hulls should be removed. 

43. Strawberry Sliortcake. — For strawberry shortcake, 
either a biscuit or a plain-cake mixture may be used, some persons 
preferring the one and other persons the other. This may be made 
in a large cake, as shown in Fig. 1, and then cut into pieces, or it 
may be made into individual cakes, as Fig. 2 shows. Whichever 
plan is followed, the cakes are split in the same way and the crushed 




Fig. 1 

berries inserted between the halves. This dish may be made more 
attractive in appearance if a few of the finest berries are saved and 
used as a garniture. 

Strawberry Shortcake 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 



1 qt. strawberries 
1 c. sugar 



Biscuit or plain- 
cake dough 



Mash or chop the berries, add the sugar to them, and let them 
stand until the sugar has dissolved. Bake the biscuit or plain-cake 
dough in a single thick layer or, if desired, bake it in individual 
cakes, cutting the biscuit dough with a cookie cutter and putting the 
cake mixture in muffin pans. Remove from the pan, cut in two with 
a sharp knife, and spread half of the berries over the lower piece. 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



19 



Set the upper piece on the berries. In the case of the large cake, 
sprinkle powdered sugar over the top and then on this arrange a 
number of the largest and finest of the berries, as Fig. 1 shows, as 
a garniture. Cut in pieces of the desired size and serve with or 
without either plain or whipped cream. In preparing the individual 
cakes, spread a spoonful or two of the crushed berries over the top, 
as Fig. 2 shows, and serve with whipped cream. 

44. Strawberry Whip. — Strawberries may be used instead 
of raspberries in the recipe for red-raspberry whip. When prepared 
in this way and served with fresh cake, strawberries make a very 
appetizing dessert. 

45. Oth.er Strawberry Desserts. — If it is desired to serve 
strawberries just with sugar, they can be made attractive with very 
little effort. Garnish a 
plate with some of the 
strawberry leaves and 
on them place a few 
fine large strawberries 
that have been washed 
but have not had the 
hulls removed. Serve 
a small dish of pow- 
dered sugar with the 
strawberries, so that 
they may be dipped 
into the sugar and 
eaten by holding the 
hull of the berry in the fingers. Strawberries crushed with sugar 
and served with blanc mange or custard also make a very delicious 
dessert. 





^ 


■■ 




V 


E^^^^^^^^^^n 


H^^^WBB 


H 


^Hp^!?Y^^H 


I^bS ^i .;-^t. ^^^W 


^0 


W^-0'MM 














BHh^^^^^v--. - 




'■■>-^^^t^^^ 


H|HH|^^^^;2:££L~^ 


J:_,~i»- 


tflH 




l^^^i 



Fig. 2 



MISCELLAJfEOUS BERRIES 

46. Currants come in three varieties — red, white, and black. 
They are not often eaten fresh, but are generally utilized for making 
jellies, jams, and preserves, or for pastry and pies. When they are 
to be used for jelly, it is not necessary to pick them from the stems, 
as they may be washed and cooked on their stems. Some varieties 
of currants are dried and these are used extensively in the making 



20 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

of cakes, cookies, etc. The usefulness of this fruit as a food is not 
so great as many others. No recipes are given for it because of its 
little use in the fresh form. 

47. Gooseberries, like currants, are somewhat limited in their 
variety of uses, being seldom used except for jelly, preserves, and 
pies. Before gooseberries are ripe they are light green in color 
and rather sour in taste, but as they ripen the amount of acid they 
contain decreases, so that they become sweet in flavor and change to 
brownish-purple. Green gooseberries are often canned for pies, and 
when in this state or when partly ripe they are also made up into 
many kinds of preserves and jelly. In their preparation for these 
uses, both the stems and the blossom ends should be removed. As 
a rule, berries of this kind keep very well and stand considerable 
handling because their outside skin is very tough. 

48. Loganberries are a fruit produced by crossing a variety 
pif red raspberries with a species of blackberry. They are not very 
common, but are an excellent berry and are well liked by those who 
can obtain them. They may be used for any purpose for which 
either raspberries or blackberries are used. Therefore, in the recipes 
given for, these two kinds of berries, loganberries may be substituted 
whenever they can be obtained. 



NON-TROPICAL FRUITS 



NATURE AND USB 

49. Besides the berries that have just been described, there are 
a large number of fruits that are grown in temperate climates and 
are therefore regarded as non-tropical fruits. Extensive use is 
made of these fruits in the regions in which they are grown or in 
places that are within easy shipping distances of the source of supply. 
All of them have a protective covering, or skin, and consequently 
keep for long periods of time if they are not too ripe when picked. 
Those which contain the highest percentage of water are the most 
perishable. 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 21 



APPLES 

50. Apples, of which there are at least a thousand varieties, 
are probably the best known of the non-tropical fruits. Some apples 
mature early in the summer, while others do not ripen until late in 
the fall. The late apples can be kept during the entire winter if 
they are properly stored, but the summer varieties must generally 
be used immediately, as they do not have good keeping qualities. 
In each locality in which apples are grown, a few varieties seem to 
be especially popular and are used to the exclusion of others. Some 
apples are good for one purpose and some for another. For 
instance, many that are excellent if eaten raw are not good for 
cooking purposes, and others that cook well are not suitable for eat- 
ing. It is therefore a good idea for the housewife to become familiar 
with the varieties of apples raised in her community and to learn 
the use to which each kind can be put to advantage. 

Apples of all kinds may be prepared in a large variety of ways. 
They are much used for sauce, pie, and numerous desserts, as well 
as for jelly and, with various fruit mixtures, for jams and preserves. 
The juice of apples, which upon being extracted is known as cider, 
is used in a number of ways, but its most important use is in the 
manufacture of vinegar. 

51. Apple Sauce. — When apple sauce is to be made, apples 
that are somewhat sour and that will cook soft easily should be 
selected. This is a dessert that can be made all during the winter 
when it is often difficult to obtain other fruits fresh. It is usually 
served when roast pork is the main dish of a meal, but is just as 
appetizing when served with other foods. 

Apple Sauce 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

10 medium-sized apples 1 c. sugar 

i c. water 

Wash the apples, cut them in quarters, remove the cores, and, if 
desired, peel them. Put them into a saucepan, add the water, and 
allow them to cook until they are very soft. If the apples are 
inclined to be dry, a little more water may be necessary. When 
done, force them through a colander or a sieve, add the sugar to the 
pulp, and return to the stove. Cook until the sugar is completely 



22 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

dissolved and, if necessary, until the apple sauce is slightly thick- 
ened, stirring frequently to prevent scorching. Remove from the 
heat, and season with lemon peel cut fine, cinnamon, or nutmeg. 

If there are apples in supply that do not cook well for apple sauce, 
they may be peeled, quartered, and cored, and cooked with the sugar 
and water. Then, instead of being forced through a sieve, they 
should be allowed to remain in pieces in the sirup. 

52. Porcupine Apples. — ^A pleasing change in the way of an 
apple dessert may be had by making porcupine apples. 

Porcupine Apples 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 large apples 2 doz. almonds 

1 c. sugar Currant jelly 

1 c. water 

Wash, core, and pare the apples. Make a sirup by bringing the 
sugar and water to the boiling point. Put the apples into the sirup, 
cook on one side for several minutes, and then turn and cook on 
the othei' side. Do not allow the apples to cook completely in the 
sirup, but when they are still hard remove them and continue to boil 
the sirup down. Set the apples in a shallow pan, stick the almonds, 
which should be blanched, into them so that they will project like 
porcupine quills, sprinkle them with sugar, and bake in the oven until 
they are soft and the almonds slightly brown. Remove from the 
oven, fill the center of each with currant jelly, pour the juice over 
them, and serve. 

53. Baked Apples. — Nothing is more palatable than baked 
apples if a juicy, sour variety can be secured. 

Baked Apples 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 medium-sized sour apples 1 Tb. butter 

i c. brown sugar ^ c. water 

i tsp. cinnamon 

Wash and core the apples, place them in a baking dish, and fill 
the centers with the brown sugar mixed with the cinnamon. Put a 
small piece of butter on top of each apple, pour the water in the 
bottom of the pan, set in the oven, and bake until the apples are soft. 
Baste frequently with the juice that collects in the bottom of the 
pan. Serve hot or cold, as desired. 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 23 

Apples baked in this way may be improved in flavor by serving 
grape juice over them. Heat the grape juice, and then, if the apples 
are to be served hot, pour about 2 tablespoonfuls over each apple 
just before serving. In case the apples are to be served cold, pour 
the hot grape juice over them and then allow them to cool. 

54. Maple Apples. — Apples cooked in maple sirup have a 
very pleasing flavor. The sirup that remains in the pan is poured 
over the apples when they are served. 

Maple Apples 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

6 medium-sized apples 1 c. maple sirup 

Wash, peel, and core the apples. Bring the maple sirup to the 
boiling point in a saucepan. Drop the apples into the hot sirup, 
cook first on one side, and then turn and cook on the other. As 
soon as they become soft, remove from the sirup, pour the sirup over 
them, and serve. 

55. Steamed Apples. — If it is desired to retain the color in 
apples that have red skins, they should be steamed instead of baked, 
for the color is lost in baking. Prepare apples that are to be 
steamed by washing them and removing the cores. Place the apples 
in a pan with a perforated bottom, put this over a pan of boiling 
water, cover closely, and steam until they are soft. Serve in any 
desired way. They will be found to be delicious in flavor and 
attractive in appearance. 



APRICOTS 



56. Apricots, in appearance, are a cross between peaches and 
plums. They are grown extensively in the western part of the 
United States, but they can be grown in any climate where peaches 
and plums are raised. As they contain considerable acid, they 
require a large quantity of sugar when they are cooked with their 
skins and seeds. They are used most frequently for canning, but 
they make excellent marmalades and jams. They are also dried in 
large quantities and, in this form, make delicious desserts. 

57. Apricot Souffle. — No more attractive as well as delicious 
dessert can be prepared than apricot souffle, which is illustrated in 



24 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



21 



Fig. 3. The apricots are just tart enough to give it a very pleasing 
flavor. 

Apricot Souffle 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. butter 1 c. scalded milk 

4 Tb. flour 3 eggs 

i c. sugar i tsp. vanilla 

Pinch of salt 1 can apricots 

Melt the butter, add the flour, sugar, and salt, and stir in the hot 
milk. Bring this mixture to the boiling point. Separate the yolks 
and whites of the eggs. Beat the yolks until they are thick and 
lemon-colored, and then pour the hot mixture over them, stirring 

constantly to prevent 
the eggs from curding. 
Beat the whites until 
they are stiff, fold 
them into the mixture, 
and add the vanilla. 
Place the apricots with- 
out juice in a layer on 
the bottom of the but- 
tered baking dish, pour 
the mixture over them, 
and bake for 45 to 60 
minutes in a hot oven, 
when it should be baked through and slightly brown on top and 
should appear as in Fig. 3. Remove from the oven and serve with 
the sirup from the apricots. Whipped cream may also be added 
if desired. 




Fig. 3 



CHERRIBS 

58. Cherries come in numerous varieties, some of which are 
sweet and others sour. The method of using them in cookery 
depends largely on the kind of cherry that is to be used. Any of 
the varieties may be canned with varying quantities of sugar and 
then used for sauce. They also make excellent preserves, especially 
the sour varieties. However, they do not contain pectin in sufficient 
quantity for jelly, so that when cherry jelly is desired, other fruit 
or material containing pectin must be used with the cherries. 



I 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 25 

When purchased in the market, cherries usually have their stems 
on. They should be washed before the stems are removed. The 
seeds may be taken out by hand or by means of cherry seeders made 
especially for this purpose. 

59. Ch.erry Fritters. — Something different in the way of 
dessert can be had by making cherry fritters according to the accom- 
panying recipe. 

Cherry Fritters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. flour i c. milk 

2 tsp. baking powder 1 egg 

i tsp. salt 2 Tb. butter 

2 Tb. sugar i c. cherries cut into halves 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the milk and egg, and beat 
all together well. Add the melted butter and fold in the cherries. 
Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry until brown. Remove from 
the fat, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve. 



60. Grapes are a fruit extensively cultivated both for eating 
and for the making of wines and raisins. Although found in many 
varieties, they naturally divide themselves into two general classes: 
those which retain their skins, such as the Malaga, Tokay, Muscat, 
Cornichon, Emperor, etc., and those which slip out of their skins 
easily, such as the Concord, Niagara, Delaware, Catawba, etc. 

Grapes are much used as a fresh fruit. When they are to be used 
in this way, the bunches should be put into a colander and washed 
thoroughly by running cold water over them. Then all the imperfect 
ones should be removed and the grapes kept cool until they are to 
be served. Clean grape leaves -make an attractive garnish for the 
individual plates or the serving dish on which the grapes are placed. 
Grapes are also used extensively for making jelly and grape juice, 
a beverage that is well liked. 

61. It will be found that through proper care grapes can be 
kept a long time in the fall after they are removed from the vines, 
provided perfect bunches are obtained and they are picked before 
they have become too ripe. To preserve such grapes, dip the ends of 
the stems into melted sealing wax in order to prevent the evapora- 
tion of moisture through the stems. Then, in a cool, dry place, lay 



26 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

the bunches out on racks in a single layer, taking care not to crush 
nor bruise them. 

62. Unfermented Grape Juice With. Water. — Grape juice 
may be made either with or without water. That in which water is 
used in the making usually requires no diluting when it is served as 
a beverage. Concord grapes are perhaps used more commonly for 
the making of grape juice than any other variety, but other kinds, 
particularly Catawbas and Niagaras, may be used as well. 

Unfermented Grape Juice With Water 

12 qt. grapes 4 lb. sugar 

2 qt. water 

Wash the grapes and remove them from the stems. Put them 
with the water into a preserving kettle, and heat gradually until the 
skins of the grapes burst. Dip off as much juice as possible, and put 
it into a jelly bag. Continue to heat and dip off the juice in this 
way until the pulp is comparatively dry. Then add a little more 
water to the pulp and put it in the bag to drip. When all the juice 
has dripped through the bag, pour it back into the preserving kettle, 
add the sugar, and bring to the boiling point. Stir frequently, so 
that the sugar will be well dissolved. Pour into jars or bottles, seal, 
and sterilize by cooking for about 5 minutes in hot water that nearly 
covers the bottles. Any large receptacle that will hold sufficient 
water may be used as a sterilizer. 

63. Unfermented Grape Juice Without Water. — ^When 
grape juice is made without water, it is both thick and rich. Con- 
sequently, it should usually be diluted with water when it is served 
as a beverage. 

Unfermented Grape Juice Without Water 
12 qt. grapes 3 lb. sugar 

Wash the grapes, remove them from the stems, and put them into a 
preserving kettle. Heat very slowly and mash with a spoon, so that 
enough juice will be pressed out and thus prevent the grapes from 
scorching. Remove the juice as it forms and put it into a jelly 
bag. When all of it has been taken from the grapes and strained 
through the jelly bag, strain the pulp and put all the juice into a 
preserving kettle, add the sugar, and bring to the boiling point. 
Pour into bottles or jars, seal, and sterilize in a water bath for 
about 5 minutes. 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 27 



PEACHES 

64. Peaches may be divided into two general classes: those 
having a yellow skin and those having a white skin. In each of these 
classes are found both clingstone and freestone peaches; that is, 
peaches whose pulp adheres tightly to the seed, or stone, and those 
in which the pulp can be separated easily from the stone. When 
peaches are purchased for canning or for any use in which it is 
necessary to remove the seeds, freestones should be selected. Cling- 
stones may be used when the stones are allowed to remain in the 
fruit, as in pickled peaches, and for jams, preserves, or butters, 
in which small pieces may be used or the entire peach mashed. 
Whether to select yellow or white peaches, however, is merely a 
matter of taste, as some persons prefer one kind and some the other. 

65. Peaches are not satisfactory for jelly making, because they 
do not contain pectin. However, the juice of peaches makes a very 
good sirup if it is sweetened and cooked until it is thick. Such sirup 
is really just as delicious as maple sirup with griddle cakes. Peaches 
are used to a large extent for canning and are also made into pre- 
serves, jams, and butters. In addition, they are much used without 
cooking, for they are favored by most persons. When they are to be 
served whole, they should be washed and then wiped with a damp 
cloth to remove the fuzz. The skins may be removed by blanching 
the peaches in boiling water or peeling them with a sharp knife. If 
they are then sliced or cut in any desirable way and served with 
cream and sugar, they make a delicious dessert. 

66. Stewed Peaches. — Fresh stewed peaches make a very 
desirable dessert to serve with simple cake or cookies. Children 
may very readily eat such dessert without danger of digestive 
disturbances. Adding a tablespoonful of butter to the hot stewed 
peaches and then serving them over freshly made toast makes a 
delightful breakfast dish. The cooked peaches may also be run 
through a sieve, reheated with a little flour or corn starch to thicken 
them slightly, and then served hot on buttered toast. 

Stewed Peaches 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

14 qt. peaches 1 c. water 

1 lb. sugar 



28 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21. 

Peel the peaches, cut into halves, and remove the seeds. Put the 
sugar and water over the fire to cook in a saucepan and bring to a 
rapid boil. Add the peaches and cook until they may be easily 
pierced with a fork. 

67. Baked Peaches. — ^When peaches are to be baked, select 
large firm ones. Wash them thoroughly and cut them into halves, 
removing the stones. Place the peaches in a shallow pan, fill the 
cavities with sugar, and dot the top of each half with butter. Set 
in the oven and bake until the peaches become soft. Serve hot or 
cold, either with or without cream, as desired. 



68. Pears, like apples, come in summer and winter varieties. 
The summer varieties must be utilized during the summer and early 
fall or must be canned at this time to preserve them for future use. 
Winter pears, however, may be stored, for they keep like apples. A 
number of the small varieties of pears are much used for pickling. 
Pears are most valuable when they are canned and used for sauce. 
They cannot be used for jelly, because they do not contain sufficient 
acid nor pectin. The juice from canned pears, because of its mild 
flavor, is often found to be valuable in the feeding of invalids or 
persons who have gastric troubles. It is usually advisable to pick 
pears before they are entirely ripe, for then they may be kept for 
a considerable length of time and will ripen slowly. 

69. Baked Pears. — Although pears are rather mild in flavor, 
they are delicious when baked if lemon is added. Wash thoroughly 
pears that are to be baked, cut them into halves, and remove the 
cores. Place them in a shallow pan, fill the holes in the center with 
sugar, dot with butter, and place a thin slice of lemon over each 
piece. Pour a few spoonfuls of water into the pan, set in the oven, 
and bake until the pears can be easily pierced with a fork. Remove 
from the oven and serve hot or cold. 



70. Plums are among the very strong acid fruits. Some vari- 
eties of them seem to be more tart after they are cooked than before, 
but, as already explained, this condition is due to the fact that the 
acid contained in the skin and around the seeds is liberated during 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 29 

the cooking. This fsuit, of which there are numerous varieties, is 
generally used for canning, preserving, etc. It does not make jelly 
successfully in all cases unless some material containing pectin is 
added. Very firm plums may have the skins removed by blanching 
if it seems advisable to take them off. 

71. Stewed Plums. — Because of the many varieties of plums 
with their varying degrees of acidity, it is difficult to make a recipe 
with a quantity of sugar that will suit all kinds. The recipe given 
here is suitable for medium sour plums, such as egg plums and the 
common red md yellow varieties. Damsons and green gages will 
probably require more sugar, while prune plums may require less. 

Stewed Plums 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1^ qt. plums I c. water 
1 lb. sugar 

Wash the plums and prick each one two or three times with a 
fork. Bring the sugar and water to the boiling point and, when 
rapidly boiling, add the plums. Cook until they are tender, remove 
from the fire, cool, and serve. 



Q,UINCBS 

72. Quinces are one of the non-perishable fruits. They mature 
late in the fall and may be kept during the winter in much the same 
way as apples. While quinces are not Used so extensively as most 
other fruits, there are many uses to which they may be put and 
much can be done with a small quantity. For instance, various kinds 
of preserves and marmalades may be made entirely of quinces or of 
a combination of quinces and some other fruit. They also make 
excellent jelly. As their flavor is very strong, a small quantity of 
quince pulp used with apples or some other fruit will give the 
typical flavor of quinces. When combined with sweet apples, they 
make a very delicious sauce. 

The skin of quinces is covered with a thick fuzz, which can be 
removed by wiping the fruit with a damp cloth. A point that should 
be remembered about quinces is that they are extremely hard and 
require long cooking to make them tender and palatable. 

73. Stewed Quinces and Apples. — The combination of 
quinces and apples is very delicious. Sweet apples, which are difii- 



30 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

cult to use as a cooked fruit because of a lack of flavor, may be 
combined very satisfactorily with quinces, for the quinces impart 
a certain amount of their strong flavor to the bland apples and thus 
the flavor of both is improved. 

Stewed Quinces and Apples 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. sweet apples 1 lb. sugar 

1 pt. quinces 1 c. water 

Wash, peel, core, and quarter the fruit. Add the sugar to the 
water and place over the fire until it comes to a rapid boil. Then 
add the quinces and cook until they are partly softened. Add the 
sweet apples and continue the cooking until both are tender. 
Remove from the fire, cool, and serve. 



RHUBARB 

74. Rhubarb is in reality not a fruit, but it is always con- 
sidered as such because it is cooked with sugar and served as a 
fruit. It has the advantage of coming early in the spring before 
there are many fruits in the market. As it contains a large quantity 
of oxalic acid, it is very sour and must be cooked with considerable 
sugar to become palatable, the addition of which makes the food 
value of cooked rhubarb very high. Rhubarb is much used for pies 
and is frequently canned for sauce. It is also used as a cheap filler 
with a more expensive fruit in the making of marmalades, conserves, 
and jams. 

The stems of some varieties of rhubarb are characterized by a 
great deal of red color, while others are entirely green. The red 
rhubarb makes a more attractive dish when it is cook^^d and served 
than the green, but it has no better flavor. The outside of the stem 
has a skin that may be' removed by catching hold of it at one end 
with a knife and stripping it off the remainder of the stem. It is 
not necessary to remove the skin from young and tender rhubarb, 
but it is often an advantage to remove it from rhubarb that is 
old. It should be remembered that the stems of rhubarb contain 
considerable water and so require very little liquid in their cooking. 

75. Stewed Rhubarb. — Two methods of stewing rhubarb are 
in practice, the one to select depending on the way it is preferred. 
In one method, which keeps the pieces whole, the sugar and water 



21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



31 



are brought to the boiling point before the rhubarb is added, while 
in the other, the rhubarb is cooked with water until it is soft and 
the sugar then added. 

Stewed Rhubarb 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. sugar 1 qt. cut rhubarb 

i c. water 

Mix the sugar and water in a saucepan and bring to the boiling 
point. Wash the stems of the rhubarb and cut into inch lengths. 
Add the rhubarb to the sirup and cook until it is tender enough to 
be pierced with a fork. If desired, a flavoring of lemon peel may be 
added. Turn into a dish, allow to cool, and serve. 

If the other method is preferred, cook the rhubarb with the water 
until it is soft and then add the sugar. 



CITRUS FKUITS 



CHARACTERISTICS 

76. Fruits that contain citric acid are grouped together and are 
known as citrus fruits. All of these are similar in structure, 
although they differ in size, as will be observed from Fig. 4. Here 




Fig. 4 



the citrus fruits most commonly used are illustrated, the large one in 
the center being a grapefruit ; the two to the left, oranges ; the two 
to the right, lemons ; and the two in the front, tangerines. 



32 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

All varieties of these fruits are tropical or semitropical and are 
shipped to the North in boxes that contain various numbers, the 
number that can be packed in a box depending on the size of the 
fruit. The south, southeastern, and western parts of the United 
States supply practically all of these fruits that are found in the 
northern markets. They stand storage well and keep for long 
periods of time if they are packed before they are too ripe. These 
characteristics, together with the fact that they are at their prime 
at different times in different localities, make it possible to market 
such fruits during the entire year, although they are much better at 
certain seasons than at others. 

77. The majority of citrus fruits contain a fair amount of sugar 
and a great deal of water; consequently, they are very juicy and 
refreshing. A few of them, however, such as lemons and limes, 
contain very little sugar and considerable acid and are therefore 
extremely sour. In the use of such varieties, sugar must be added 
to make them palatable. 

The greatest use made of citrus fruits is that of serving them raw. 
However, they are also used in the making of marmalades, con- 
serves, and such confections as candied fruits. Then, too, the juice 
of a number of them, such as lemons, oranges, and limes, makes 
very refreshing beverages, so these varieties are much used for this 
purpose. 

GRAPEFRT7IT 

78. Grapefruit, also known as shaddock, is a large, pale-yellow 
fruit belonging to the citrus group. One variety, known as the 
pomelo, is the kind that is commonly found in the market. It is 
slightly flattened on both the blossom and stem ends. 

Grapefruit has a typical flavor and a slightly bitter taste and con- 
tains neither a great deal of sugar nor a large amount of add. 
Because of its refreshing, somewhat acid pulp and juice, it is highly 
prized as a fruit to be eaten at breakfast or as an appetizer for a 
fruit cocktail. It is also much used in the making of fruit salads. 

79. Selection of Grapefruit. — Grapefruit should be selected 
with care in order that fruit of good quality may be obtained. Some 
persons think that to be good grapefruit should be large, but it 
should be remembered that size is not the factor by which to judge 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



33 




Fig. 5 



the quality. The fruit should be heavy for its size and the skin 
should be fine-grained and even. Coarse-grained skin, as a rule, is 
thick and indicates that 
the pulp is rather pithy 
and without juice. 

80. P r e p a r a tlon 
of Grapefruit. — Dif- 
ferent ways of serving 
grapefruit are in prac- 
tice, and it is well that 
these be understood. 
This is generally con- 
sidered a rather difficult 
fruit to eat, but if care 
is exercised in its prepa- 
ration for the table it 
can be eaten with com- 
fort. For preparing grapefruil, a narrow, sharp-bladed paring 
knife may be used. As is well known, a grapefruit is always cut 
apart half way between the stem and the blossom ends and a half 

served to each person. 

81. One method of 
preparing grapefruit 
consists in cutting the 
skin in such a way that 
the seeds can be taken 
out and the pulp then 
easily removed with a 
spoon. To prepare it in 
this way, cut the grape- 
fruit into halves, and 
then, with a sharp knife, 
cut around the pithy 
core in the center, cut- 
ting oflf the smallest pos- 
sible end of each of the sections. With this done, remove the seeds, 
which will be found firmly lodged near the core and which can be 
readily pushed out with the point of the knife. Then cut down 
V r— rs— 4 




Fig. 6 



34 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



21 




each side of the skin between the sections so as to separate the pulp 
from the skin. Around the edge next to the outside skin, cut the 
pulp in each section with a single jab of the knife, taking care not 

to cut the skin between 
the sections. The entire 
pulp of each section, 
which will be found to 
be loose on both sides 
and ends if the cutting is 
correctly done, can then 
be readily removed with 
a spoon. 

82. In another 
method of preparing 
this fruit for the table, 
all the skin inside' of the 
^"^- ' f r u i t is removed and 

nothing but the pulp is left. This method, which is illustrated in 
Figs. 5 to 10", inclusive, requires a little more time and care than the 
previous one, but the result justifies the effort. After cutting the 
grapefruit into halves, remove the seeds with a sharp knife, as 
shown in Fig. 5. Then, 
with the same knife, cut 
the grapefruit from the 
skin all the way around 
the edge, as in Fig. 6; 
also, cut down each side 
of the skin between the 
sections, so as to sepa- 
rate the pulp from the 
skin, as in Fig. 7. With 
the pulp loosened, insert 
a pair of scissors along 
the outside edge, as in 
Fig. 8, and make a slant- 
ing cut toward the core. 

Then, as in Fig. 9, cut the core loose from the outside skin. Repeat 
this operation for each section. If the cutting has been properly 
done, the core and skin enclosing the sections may be lifted out of 




Fig. 8 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



35 



the grapefruit, and, as shown in Fig. 10, will then be in the form of 
a many-pointed star. As only the pulp remains in the outside skin, 
the grapefruit can be eaten without difficulty. 

83. Serving Grapefruit.— When grapefruit has been prop- 
erly ripened, it is rather 
sweet, so that many per- 
sons prefer it without 
sugar ; but when sugar is 
desired, the fruit is very 
much more delicious if 
it is prepared some time 
before it is to be served, 
the sugar added to it, 
and the fruit placed in a 
cool place. If this is 
done in the evening and 
the grapefruit is served 
for breakfast, a large 
amount of very delicious 
juice will have collected through the night. At any rate, grapefruit 
is best if it is sweetened long enough before it is served to give the 
sugar a chance to penetrate. 




Fig. 9 



84. Leraons are a citrus fruit raised in tropical regions. They 
are shipped to other climates in cases that hold from 180 to 540, 

depending on the size of 
the lemons, 300 to the 
case being a medium and 
commonly used size. 
Their quality is judged 
like that of grapefruit; 
that is, by their weight, 
the texture of their skin, 
and their general color 
and shape. 

Lemons contain very 
little sugar, but they are characterized by a large amount of acid. 
Because of this fact, their juice is used to season foods in much the 




Fig. 10 



36 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



§21 



same way as vinegar is used. In fact, their chief uses are in making 
desserts and in seasoning such foods as custards, pudding sauces, 
etc. However, their juice is also much used in the making of bever- 
ages, such as lemonade and fruit punch. 



ORANGES 



85. Orang-es belong to the group of citrus fruits, but they 
differ from both lemons and grapefruit in that they contain more 
sugar and less acid. Two kinds of oranges supply the demands for 
this fruit, Florida and California oranges. Florida oranges have a 
skin more the color of lemons and grapefruit and contain seeds, but 
they are considered to be the finest both as to flavor and quality. 




Fig. U 

California oranges, which have a bright-yellow or orange skin, are 
seedless and are known as navel oranges. As soon as the Florida 
season ends, the California season begins ; consequently, the market 
season for this fruit is a lengthy one. The russet of oranges is caused 
by the bite of an insect on the skin. To be shipped, oranges are 
packed in cases that will contain from 48 to 400 to the case. 

Probably no citrus fruit is used so extensively as oranges. 
Because of their refreshing subacid flavor, they are much eaten in 
their fresh state, both alone and in combination with other foods 
in numerous salads and desserts. 

86. Preparation of Oranges. — Several attractive ways of 
preparing oranges for the table when they are to be eaten raw are 
shown in Fig. 11. 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



37 



To prepare them in the way shown at the left, cut the orange into 
two parts, cutting half way between the stem and blossom ends, and 
loosen the pulp in each 
half in the manner ex- 
plained in Art. 81 for 
the preparation of grape- 
fruit. Then the pulp 
may be eaten from the 
orange with a spoon. 

If an orange is to be 
eaten in sections, the skin 
may be cut from the stem 
to the blossom end about 
six times and then loos- 
ened from the one end 
and turned in toward the 
orange in the manner 
shown in the central 
figure of the group. It will then be easy to remove the skin. 

Sometimes it is desired to serve sliced oranges, as shown at the 
right. To prepare oranges in this way, remove the skin from the 




Fig. 12 




Fig. 13 



orange, cut it in halves lengthwise, and then slice it in thin slices 
crosswise. Arrange the slices on a plate and serve as desired. 



38 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

87. When oranges are to be used for salads, or for any purpose 
in which merely the pulp is desired, as, for instance, orange custard, 
all the skin between the sections must be removed, as it makes any 
warm mixture bitter. To secure the pulp without any of the skin, 
first peel the orange, as shown in Fig. 12, in the same way an 
apple is peeled, beginning at one end and peeling around and around 
deeply enough to remove with the skin all the white pithy material 
under it. If the knife is a sharp one and the peeling is carefully 
done, there will be little waste of the pulp. When the orange is 
entirely peeled, cut each section from the skin by passing the knife 
as closely as possible between the pulp and the skin, as shown in 
Fig. 13. The sections thus obtained may be used whole or cut into 
pieces of any desired size. 

MISCBLLiAlVBOUS CITRUS FRUITS 

88. In addition to grapefruit, lemons, and oranges, the three 
principal varieties of citrus fruits, this group also includes kumquats, 
limes, mandarins, and tangerines. These fruits are not of so much 
importance in the diet as the other varieties, but when they are used 
as foods they have a food value about equal to that of apples the 
.same in size. They are not in such common use as the citrus fruits 
already discussed, but it is well for every housewife to know what 
they are and to what use they can be put. 

89. Kumquats are an acid fruit resembling oranges in color 
but being about the size and shape of small plums. They are used 
principally for the making of marmalades and jams, and in this use 
both the skin and the pulp are included. 

90. Limes look like small lemons. They are very sour and do 
not contain sugar in any quantity. They are valued chiefly for their 
juice, which is utilized in the making of drinks, confections, etc. 

91. Mandarins and tangerines are really varieties of oranges 
and are used in much the same way. They have a very sweet 
flavor. Their skin does not cling so closely as the skin of oranges. 
For this reason they are known as glove oranges and are very 
easily peeled. 



§ 21. FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 39 



TROPICAL FRUITS 



VARIETIES 

92. Besides the citrus fruits, which may also be regarded as 
tropical fruits because they grow in tropical regions, there are a 
number of other fruits that may be conveniently grouped under the 
heading Tropical Fruits. The best known of these are bananas and 
pineapples, but numerous others, such as avocados, guavas, nec- 
tarines, pomegranates, tamarinds, and mangoes, are also raised in 
the tropical countries and should be included in this class. The 
majority of these fruits stand shipment well, but if they are to 
be shipped to far distant places they must be picked before they 
become too ripe and must be packed well. As bananas and pine- 
apples are used more extensively than the other tropical fruits, they 
are discussed here in, greater detail; however, enough information 
is given about the others to enable the housewife to become familiar 
with them. 



BANAXAS 

93. Bananas are a tropical fruit that have become very pop- 
ular with the people in the North. As they are usually picked and 
shipped green and then ripened by a process of heating when they 
are ready to be put on the market, it is possible to obtain them in a 
very good condition. It should be remembered, however, that they 
are not ripe enough to eat until all the green color has left the skin. 
The. stem of the bunch may be green, but the bananas themselves 
should be perfectly yellow. Black spots, which are sometimes found 
on the skins, indicate overripeness or bruises. When the spots come 
from overripeness, however, they do not injure the quality of the 
fruit, unless there are a great many of them ; in fact, many persons 
consider that bananas are better when the skins are black than at any 
other time. 

94. Just under the skin of the banana is some pithy material 
t.iat clings to the outside of the fruit and that has a pungent, dis- 
agreeable taste. This objectionable taste may be done away with 
by scraping the surface of the banana slightly, as shown in Fig. 14, 
after the skin is removed. 



40 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



§21 



The strong, typical flavor that characterizes bananas is due to the 
volatile oil they contain. It is this oil that causes bananas to dis- 
agree with some persons. The common yellow variety has a milder 

flavor than red bananas 
and certain other kinds 
and, consequently, is 
more popular. If the oil 
of bananas does not 
prove irritating, much 
use should be made of 
this fruit, because its 
food value is high, being 
about double that of 
apples and oranges. 

95. Bananas are 
eaten raw more often 
than in any other way, 
but many persons find 
cooked bananas very 
agreeable. Then, too, it is sometimes claimed that cooked bananas 
are more digestible than raw ones because of the starch that bananas 
contain. However, this argument may be discounted, for a well- 
ripened banana contains such a small quantity of starch that no con- 
sideration need be given to it. 




Fig. 14 




Fig. is 



96. Baked Bananas. — If bananas are to be cooked, they can 
be made very appetizing by baking them with a sirup made of vine- 
gar, sugar, and butter. When prepared in this way, they should 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 41 

be cut in two lengthwise, and then baked in a shallow pan, as 
Fig. 15 shows. 

Baked Bananas 

(SufEcient to Serve Six) 

6 bananas i c. sugar 

2 Tb. butter 3 Tb. vinegar 

Remove the skins from the bananas, scrape the surface as in 
Fig. 14, and cut them in half lengthwise. Arrange the halves in a 
shallow pan. Melt the butter and mix it with the sugar and the 
vinegar. Pour a spoonful of the mixture over each banana and then 
set the pan in the oven. Bake in a slow oven for about 20 minutes, 
basting frequently with the remainder of the sirup during the baking. 
Remove from the oven and serve hot. 

97. Banana Fritters. — rDelicious fritters can be made with 
bananas as a foundation. The accompanying recipe, if carefully 
followed, will result in a dish that will be appetizing, especially to 
those who are fond of this fruit. 

Banana Fritters 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 bananas i c. milk 

1 Tb. lemon juice 1 egg 

i c. flour 1 Tb. butter, melted 

2 Tb. sugar Powdered sugar 
i tsp. salt 

Remove the skins from the bananas, scrape them, and cut them 
once lengthwise and once crosswise. Sprinkle the pieces with the 
lemon juice. Make a batter by mixing and sifting the flour, sugar, 
and salt. Stir in the milk gradually, and add the yolk of the beaten 
egg and the melted butter. Lastly, fold in the beaten egg white. 
Sprinkle the bananas with powdered sugar, dip them into the batter, 
and fry in deep fat until brown. Sprinkle again with powdered 
sugar and serve. 

PINBAPPL.ES 

98. Pineapples are grown in the southern part of the United 
States, on the islands off the southeastern coast, and in Hawaii. 
They vary in size according to the age of the plants. . It requires 
from 18 to 20 months for the fruit to develop, and the plants yield 
only four or five crops. Much of this fruit is canned where it is 



42 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



§21 



grown, but as it is covered with a heavy skin it will tolerate shipping 
long distances very well. It is shipped to the market in cases that 
contain from 24 to 48 pineapples to the case. Usually, for a few 

weeks during the sum- 
mer, the price of fresh 
pineapples is reasonable 
enough to warrant can- 
ning them. 



99. The food value 
of pineapples is slightly 
lower than that of 
oranges and apples. 
However, pineapples 
have a great deal of 
flavor, and for this rea- 
son they are very valu- 
able in the making of 
desserts, preserves, mar- 
It is said that the com- 




FiG. 16 



malades, and beverages of various kinds, 
bination of pineapple and lemon will flavor a greater amount of food 
than any other fruit combined. Another characteristic of pine- 
apples is that they contain a ferment that acts upon protein material 
and therefore is some- 
times thought to aid con- 
siderably in the digestion 
of food. The probabili- 
ties are that this ferment 
really produces very 
little action in the 
stomach, but its effect 
upon protein material 
can readily be observed 
by attempting to use raw 
pineapple in the making 
of a gelatine dessert. If 
the pineapple is put in 
raw, the gelatine will not solidify; but if the pineapple is heated 
sufficiently to kill this ferment, it has no effect whatsoever upon 
the gelatine. 




Fig. 17 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



43 




Fig, 18 



100. Selecting Pineapples. — When pineapples are to be 
selected, care should be exercised to see that they are ripe. The 
most certain way of determining this fact is to pull out the center 
leaves of each pineapple 
that is chosen. As shown 
in Fig. 16, grasp the 
pineapple with one hand 
and then with the other 
pull out, one at a time, 
several of the center 
leaves of the tuft at the 
top. If the fruit is ripe 
a sharp jerk will usually 
remove each leaf readi- 
ly, but the harder the 
leaves pull, the greener 
the pineapple is. An 
overripe pineapple is 

just as unsatisfactory as one that is not ripe enough. When a pine- 
apple becomes too ripe, rotten spots begin to develop around the 
base. Such spots can be easily detected by the discoloration of the 
skin and such a pineapple should not be selected. 

101. Preparation 
of Pineapple. — Some 
persons consider pine- 
apple a difficult fruit to 
prepare, but no trouble 
will be experienced if 
the method illustrated in 
Figs. 17 to 19 is fol- 
lowed. Place the pine- 
apple on a hard surface, 
such as a wooden cutting 
board, and with a large 
sharp knife cut off the 
tuft of leaves at the top. 
Then, as shown in 

Fig. 17, cut the pineapple into J-inch slices crosswise of the head. 

When the entire pineapple has been sliced, peel each slice with a 




Fig. 19 



44 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

sharp paring knife, as in Fig. 18. With the peeling removed, it will 
be observed that each slice contains a number of eyes. Remove 
these with the point of a knife, as Fig. 19 shows. After cutting out 
the core from the center of each slice, the slices may be allowed to 
remain whole or may be cut into pieces of any desirable size or 
shape. Pineapple prepared in this way is ready either for canning 
or for desserts in which it is used fresh. 

102. Pineapple Pudding. — One of the most satisfactory 
desserts made from pineapple is the pudding given here. It is in 
reality a corn-starch pudding in which grated pineapple is used for 
the flavoring. 

Pineapple Pudding 
(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

24 c. scalded milk i c. cold milk 

I c. corn starch l| c. grated pineapple, 

i c. sugar canned or fresh 

i tsp. salt 2 egg whites 

Scald the milk by heating it over the fire in a double boiler. Mix 
the corn starch, sugar, and salt, and dissolve in the cold milk. Add 
to the scalded milk in the double boiler and cook for about 15 or 
20 minutes. Remove from the fire and add the grated pineapple 
from which all juice has been drained. Then fold in the whites of 
the eggs beaten stiff. Pour into molds previously dipped in cold 
water, allow to cool, and serve with cream. 



MISCEIiliANBOTIS TROPICAI. FRUITS 

103. Avocados. — The avocado, which is also known as the 
alligator pear, is a large pear-shaped, pulpy fruit raised principally 
in the West Indies. It has a purplish-brown skin and contains just 
one very large seed in the center. The flesh contains considerable 
fat, and so the food value of this fruit is rather high, being fully 
twice as great as a like quantity of apples or oranges. 

This fruit, which is gaining in popularity in the Northern States, 
is very perishable and does not stand shipment well. As a rule, it 
reaches the northern market green and is ripened after its arrival. 
It is an expensive fruit and is used almost entirely for salads. As 
its flavor is somewhat peculiar, a taste for it must usually be 
cultivated. 

104. Guavas. — The guava is a tropical fruit that is extensively 
grown in the southern part of the United States. Guavas come in 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 45 

two i^arieties: red guava, which resembles the apple, and white 
guava, which resembles the pear. The fruit, which has a pleasant 
acid pulp, is characterized by a more or less peculiar flavor for which 
a liking must be cultivated. It can be canned and preserved in much 
the same way as peaches are. 

Because guavas are very perishable, they cannot be shipped to 
northern markets, but various products are made from them and 
sent to every market. Preserved and pickled guavas and confections 
made from what is known as guava paste are common, but guava 
jelly made from the pulp is probably the best known product. 

105. Nectarines. — The tropical fruit called the nectarine is 
really a variety of peach, but it differs from the common peach in 
that it has a smooth, waxy skin. Also, the flesh of the nectarine is 
firmer and has a stronger flavor than that of the peach. Nectarines 
are not shipped to the northern markets to any extent, but they are 
canned in exactly the same way as peaches are and can be secured 
in this form. 

106. Persimmons. — The persimmon is a semitropical plum- 
like fruit, globular in shape and an orange-red or yellow in color. It 
comes in many varieties, but few of them find their way into the 
northern markets. The Japanese persimmon, which resembles a 
tomato in color, is the variety most frequently purchased. Persim- 
mons are characterized by a great deal of very pungent acid, which 
has a puckery effect until the fruit is made sweet and edible by 
exposure to the frost. In localities where they are plentiful, per- 
simmons are extensively used and are preserved for use during the 
winter season. 

107. Pomegranates. — The pomegranate is about as large as 
a full-sized apple and has a hard reddish-yellow rind. Most vari- 
eties contain many seeds and a comparatively small amount of red 
edible pulp. Pomegranates of various kinds are grown in the 
southern part of the United States and in other warm climates. 
They are used extensively in the localities where they are grown 
and are much enjoyed by persons who learn to care for their flavor. 
A cooling drink made from their pulp finds much favor. 

108. Tamarinds and. Mangoes. — Although tamarinds and 
mangoes are practically unknown outside of tropical countries, they 



46 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

are considered to be very delicious fruits and are used extensively 
in their native localities. 

The tamarind consists of a brown-shelled pod that contains a 
brown acid pulp and from three to ten seeds. This fruit has various 
uses in medicine and cookery and is found very satisfactory for a 
cooling beverage. 

Mangoes vary greatly in size, shape, flavor, and color. Some 
varieties are large, fleshy, and luscious, while others are small and 
stringy and have a peculiar flavor. 



MELONS 

109. Cantaloupes and Muskmelons. — The variety of 
melons known as muskmelons consists of a juicy, edible fruit that is 
characterized by a globular shape and a ribbed surface. Cantaloupes 
are a variety of muskmelons, but the distinction between them is 
sometimes difficult to understand. For the most part, these names 
are used interchangeably with reference to melons. 

Considerable variation occurs in this fruit. Some cantaloupes and 
muskmelons are large and others are small ; some have pink or yel- 
low flesh and others have white or light-green flesh. All the vari- 
ations of color and size are found between these two extremes. The 
flesh of these fruits contains considerable water; therefore, their 
food value is not high, being only a little over half as much as 
that of apples. 

110. If melons suitable for the table are desired, they should 
be selected with care. To be just at the right stage, the blossom end 
of the melon should be a trifle soft when pressed with the fingers. 
If it is very soft, the melon is perhaps too ripe; but if it does not 
give with pressure, the melon is too green. 

111. Various ways of serving muskmelons and cantaloupes are 
in practice. When they are to be served plain as a breakfast food 
or a luncheon dessert, cut them crosswise into halves, or, if they 
are large, divide them into sections lengthwise. With the melons 
cut in the desired way, remove all the seeds and keep the melons on 
ice until they are to be served. The pulp of the melon may also be 
cut from the rind and then diced and used in the making of fruit 
salads. Again, the pulp may be partly scraped out of the melon and 
the rinds then filled with fruit mixtures and served with a salad 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 47 

dressing for a salad or with fruit juices for a cocktail. The pulp 
that is scraped out may be diced and used in the fruit mixture, and 
what is left in the rind may be eaten after the contents have been 
eaten. 

112. Casaba Melons. — The variety of melons known as 
casaba, or honeydew, melons are a cross between a cucumber and 
a cantaloupe. They have white flesh and a rind that is smoother 
than the rind of cantaloupes. Melons of this kind are raised in the 
western part of the United States, but as they stand shipment very 
well, they can usually be obtained in the market in other regions. 
They are much enjoyed by those who are fond of this class of fruit. 
Their particular advantage is that they come later in the season than 
cantaloupes and muskmelons, and thus can be obtained for the table 
long after these other fruits are out of season. Casaba melons may 
be served in the same ways as cantaloupes. 

113. Watermelons. — A very well-known type of melon is the 
watermelon. It is grown principally in warm climates of the 
Southern States, as the season in the North is not sufficiently long 
to allow it to develop. This is a large fruit, having a smooth green 
skin that is often mottled or striped, and a pinkish pulp containing 
many seeds and having a sweet, watery juice. The large amount of 
water contained in this fruit makes its food value very low, it being 
lower in this respect than muskmelons and cantaloupes. The vola- 
tile oil it contains, which is responsible for its flavor, proves irritat- 
ing to some persons who eat it. 

114. Watermelon is delicious when it is served ice cold. There- 
fore, before it is served, it should be kept on ice for a sufficient 
time to allow it to become thoroughly cold. Then it may be cut in 
any desirable way. If it is cut in slices, the slices should be trimmed 
so that only the pink pulp that is edible is served, the green rind 
being discarded. As an appetizer, watermelon is delicious when 
cut into pieces and served in a cocktail glass with fresh mint chopped 
fine and sprinkled over the top. Small pieces of watermelon cut 
with a French vegetable cutter make a very attractive garnish for 
fruit salads and other fruit mixtures. 



48 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 



FRUIT COCKTAILS 

115. Cocktails made of a combination of fruits are often served 
as the first course of a meal, usually a luncheon or a dinner, to 
precede the soup course. In warm weather, they are an excellent 
substitute for heavy cocktails made of lobster or crab, and they may 
even be used to replace the soup course. The fruits used for this 
purpose should be the more acid ones, for the acids and flavors are 
intended to serve as an appetizer, or the same purpose for which the 
hot and highly seasoned soups are taken. Therefore, they are 
seldom made sweet and are not taken for their food value. Besides 
being refreshing appetizers, they afford a hostess an opportunity to 
carry out a certain color scheme in a meal. Many kinds of fruit 
may be combined into cocktails, but directions for the cocktails that 
are usually made are here given. Fruit cocktails should always be 
served ice cold. 

116. Grapefruit Cocktail. — The cocktail here explained may 
be served in stemmed glasses or in the shells of the grapefruit. If 
the fruit shells are to be used, the grapefruit should be cut into two 
parts, half way between the blossom and the stem ends, the fruit 
removed, and the edges of the shell then notched. This plan of 
serving a cocktail should be adopted only when small grapefruits 
are used, for if the shells are large more fruit will have to be used 
than is agreeable for a cocktail. 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 grapefruits 1 c. diced pineapple, fresh 

2 oranges or canned 

Powdered sugar 

Remove the pulp from the grapefruits and oranges in the manner 
previously explained. However, if the grapefruit shells are to be 
used for serving the cocktail, the grapefruit should be cut in half and 
the pulp then taken out of the skin with a sharp knife. With the 
sections of pulp removed, cut each one into several pieces. Add 
the diced pineapple to the other fruits, mix together well and set 
on ice until thoroughly chilled. Put in cocktail glasses or grapefruit 
shells, pour a spoonful or two of orange juice over each serving, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar, garnish with a cherry, and serve 
ice cold. 



§21 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



49 



117. Summer Cocktail. — As strawberries and pineapples can 
be obtained fresh at the same time during the summer, they are 
often used together in a cocktail. When sweetened slightly with 
powdered sugar and allowed to become ice cold, these fruits make 
a delicious combination. 

Summer Cocktail 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. diced fresh pineapple Powdered sugar 

2 c. sliced strawberries 

Prepare a fresh pineapple in the manner previously explained, and 
cut each slice into small pieces or dice. Wash and hull the straw- 
berries and slice them into small slices. Mix the two fruits and 
sprinkle them with powdered sugar. Place in cocktail glasses and 
allow to stand on ice a short time before serving. 

118. Fruit Cocktail. — A fruit cocktail proper is made by 
combining a number of 
different kinds of fruit, 
such as bananas, pine- 
apple, oranges, and ma- 
raschino cherries. As 
shown in Fig. 20, such 
a cocktail is served in a 
stemmed glass set on a 
small plate. Nothing 
more delicious than this 
can be prepared for the 
first course of a dinner 
or a luncheon that is to 
be served daintily. Its 
advantage is that it can 
be made at almost any season of the year with these particular fruits. 

Fruit Cocktail 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 bananas 1 doz. maraschino cherries 

1 c. canned pineapple Lemon juice 

2 oranges Powdered sugar 

Peel the bananas and dice them. Dice the pineapple. Remove the 
pulp from the oranges in the manner previously explained, and cut 
each section into several pieces. Mix these three fruits. Cut the 

WT— rs— 5 




Fig. 20 



50 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

cherries in half and add to the mixture. Set on ice until thoroughly 
chilled. To serve, put into cocktail glasses as shown in the illustra- 
tion, and add to each glass 1 tablespoonful of maraschino juice 
from the cherries and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve. 

DRIED FRUITS 



VARIETIES OF DRIED FRUITS 

119. The fruits that have been discussed up to this point are 
fresh fruits; that is, they are placed on the markets, and conse- 
quently can be obtained, in their fresh state. However, there are a 
number of fruits that are dried before they are put on the market, 
and as they can be obtained during all seasons they may be used 
when fresh fruits are out of season or as a substitute for canned 
fruits when the household supply is low. The chief varieties of 
dried fruits are dates, figs, prunes, which are dried plums, and 
raisins, which are dried grapes. Apples, apricots, and peaches are 
also dried in large quantities and are much used in place of these 
fruits when they cannot be obtained in their fresh form. Discus- 
sions of the different varieties of dried fruits are here given, 
together with recipes showing how some of them may be used. 



120. Dates, which are the fruit of the date palm, are not only 
very nutritious but well liked by most persons. They are oblong in 
shape and have a single hard seed that is grooved on one side. As 
dates contain very little water and a great deal of sugar, their food 
value is high, being more than five times that of apples and 
oranges. They are also valuable in the diet because of their slightly 
laxative effect. When added to other food, such as cakes, hot breads, 
etc., they provide a great deal of nutriment. 

121. The finest dates on the market come from Turkey and the 
Eastern countries. They are prepared for sale at the places where 
they grow, being put up in packages that weigh from i to 1 pound, 
as well as in large boxes from which they can be sold in bulk. It is 
very important that all dates, whether bought in packages or in bulk, 
be thoroughly washed before they are eaten. While those contained 



§ 21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 51 

in packages do not collect dirt after they are packed, they are con- 
taminated to a certain extent by the hands of the persons who pack 
them. To be most satisfactory, dates should first be washed in hot 
water and then have cold water run over them. If they are to be 
stuffed, they should be thoroughly dried between towels or placed 
in a single layer on pans to allow the water to evaporate. While the 
washing of dates undoubtedly causes the loss of a small amount of 
food material, it is, nevertheless, a wise procedure. 

122. Dates can be put to many valuable uses in the diet. They 
are much used in cakes, muffins, and hot breads and in fillings for 
cakes and cookies. Several kinds of delicious pastry, as well as 
salads and sandwiches, are also made with dates. Their use as a 
confection is probably the most important one, as they are very 
appetizing when stuffed with nuts, candy, and such foods. 



123. Figs are a small pear-shapea fruit grown extensively in 
Eastern countries and to some extent in the western part of the 
United States. The varieties grown in this country are not espe- 
cially valuable when they are dried, but they can be canned fresh in 
the localities where they are grown. Fresh figs cannot be shipped, 
as they are too perishable, but when dried they can be kept an 
indefinite length of time and they are highly nutritious, too. In fact, 
dried figs are nearly as high in food value as dates, and they are 
even more laxative. 

124. Dried figs are found on the market both as pressed and 
pulled figs. Pressed figs are those which are pressed tightly together 
when they are packed and are so crushed down in at least one place 
that they are more or less sugary from the juice of the fig. Pulled 
figs are those which are dried without being pressed and are suitable 
for such purposes as stewing and steaming. 

125. Stewed Figs. — If pulled figs can be secured, they may 
be stewed to be served as a sauce. When prepared in this way, they 
will be found to make a highly nutritious and delightful breakfast 
fruit or winter dessert. 

Stewed Figs 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. pulled figs 3 c. water 



52 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 

Wash the figs and remove the stems. Put them into a preserving 
kettle with the water and allow them to come slowly to the boiling 
point. Simmer gently over the fire until the figs become soft. If 
they are desired very sweet, sugar may be added before they are 
removed from the heat and the juice then cooked until it is as thick as 
is desirable. Serve cold. 

126. Steamed Figs. — ^When figs are steamed until they are 
soft and then served with plain or whipped cream, they make a 
delightful dessert. To prepare them in this way, wash the desired 
number and remove the stems. Place them in a steamer over, boil- 
ing water and steam them until they are soft. Remove from the 
stove, allow them to cool, and serve with cream. 



127. Prunes are the dried fruit of any one of several varieties 
of plum trees and are raised mostly 'in Southern Europe and Cali- 
fornia. In their fresh state, they are purple in color, but they become 
darker during their drying. They are priced and purchased accord- 
ing to size, being graded with a certain number to the pound, just 
as lemons and oranges are graded with a certain number to the case. 
In food value they are about equal to dates and figs. They contain 
very little acid, but are characterized by a large quantity of easily 
digested sugar. They also have a laxative quality that makes them 
valuable in the diet. 

128. Stewred Prunes. — ^A simple way in which to prepare 
prunes is to stew them and then add sugar to sweeten them. Stewed 
prunes may be served as a sauce with cake of some kind or they 
may be used as a breakfast fruit. 

Stewed Prunes 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 lb. prunes 1 c. sugar 

Look the prunes over carefully, wash them thoroughly in hot 
water, and soak them in warm water for about 6 hours. Place them 
on the stove in the same water in which they were soaked and which 
should well cover them. Cook slowly until they can be easily pierced 
with a fork or until the seeds separate from the pulp upon being 
crushed. Add the sugar, continue to cook until it is completely dis- 



§21 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 53 

solved, and then remove from the stove and cool. If desired, more 
sweetening may be used or a few slices of lemon or a small amount 
of lemon peel may be added to give an agreeable flavor. 

129. Stuffed Prunes. — After prunes have been stewed, they 
may have the seeds removed and then be filled with peanut butter. 
Stuffed in this way and served with whipped cream, as shown in 
Fig. 21, or merely the prune juice, they make an excellent dessert. 




Fig. 21 

Select prunes of good size and stew them according to the direc- 
tions just given, but remove them from the fire before they have 
become very soft. Cool and then cut a slit in each one and remove 
the seed. Fill the cavity with peanut butter and press together 
again. Serve with some of the prune juice or with whipped cream. 

130. Prune Whip. — A very dainty prune dessert can be made 
from stewed prunes by reducing the prunes to a pulp and then 
adding the whites of eggs. Directions for this dessert follow : 

Prune Whip 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. prune pulp 2 egg whites 

i c. powdered sugar Whipped cream 

Make the prune pulp by removing the seeds from stewed prunes 
and forcing the prunes through a sieve or a ricer. Mix the pow- 
dered sugar with the pulp. Beat the whites of the eggs until they 
are stiff and then carefully fold them into the prune pulp. Chill 
and serve with whipped cream. 



54 FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS § 21 



131. Raisins are the dried fruit of various kinds of grapes 
that contain considerable sugar and are cured in the sun or in an 
oven. They come principally from the Mediterranean region and 
from California. They have an extensive use in cookery, both as a 
confection and an ingredient in cakes, puddings, and pastry. In 
food value, raisins are very high and contain sugar in the form of 
glucose ; however, their skins are coarse cellulose and for this 
reason are likely to be injurious to children if taken in too large 
quantities. They are also valuable as a laxative and in adding variety 
to the diet if they are well cooked before they are served. 

Like other dried fruits, raisins should be washed thoroughly 
before they are used. They may then be soaked in warm water and 
stewed in exactly the same way as prunes. Sugar may or may not 
be added, as desired. Sultana raisins, which are the seedless variety, 
are especially desirable for stewing, although they may be used for 
any of the other purposes for which raisins are used. 



DRIED APPLES, APRICOTS, AND PEACHES 

132. Apples, apricots, and peaches are fruits that are used 
extensively in their dried form. They enable the housewife to 
supply her family with fruit during seasons when it is impossible 
to obtain fresh fruit. They may also be used to take the place 
of canned fruit, especially when the supply is low or has been 
exhausted. Besides their use as a sauce, they may be used for pies 
and various desserts. 

133. These fruits, which may all be used in just the same way, 
should be soaked before stewing and should be stewed according to 
the directions for the preparation and cooking of prunes. Then 
sufficient sugar to make them sweet should be added. If they are 
desired for sauce, they may be used without any further prepara- 
tion. However, they may be substituted for fresh fruit in recipes 
that call for any of them or for prunes. For instance, dried apri- 
cots, after being stewed, may be passed through a sieve to make a 
puree and may then be used to make apricot whip or souffle accord- 
ing to the directions given for other similar desserts. The flavor of 
apricots is very strong and a small amount of the pulp will flavor 
a large quantity of ice cream, sherbet, or water ice. 



FRUIT AND FRUIT DESSERTS 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) To what are the flavors and odors of fruits chiefly due? 

(2) What food substances are found in only very small amounts in fruits? 

(3) Mention the kinds of carbohydrate to which the food value of fruits 
is chiefly due. 

(4) What parts of fruits make up the cellulose they contain? 

(5) Discuss the value of minerals in fruits. 

(6) Of what value in cookery are fruits containing large quantities of acid? 

(7) What qualities of fruits are affected as they ripen? 

(8) Discuss the digestibility of fruits. 

(9) What are the effects of cooking on fruit? 

(10) What sanitary precautions concerning fruits should be observed? 

(11) (a) How do weather conditions affect the quality of berries? 
(b) What is the most important use of berries in cookery? 

(12) Name some varieties of apples that can be purchased in your locality 
that are best for: (o) cookery; (b) eating. 

(13) How can peach juice be utilized to advantage? 

(14) Mention the citrus fruits. 

(15) Describe a method of preparing grapefruit for the table. 

(16) Describe the preparation of oranges for salads and desserts. 

(17) Describe the appearance of bananas in the best condition for serving. 

(18) (a) Give a test for the ripeness of pineapples, (b) Describe the most 
convenient method of preparing pineapples. 

(19) Discuss the use of fruit cocktails. 

(20) Describe the general preparation of dried fruits that are to be stewed. 

§21 



CANNING AND DRYING 



NECESSITY FOR PRESERVING FOODS 

1. The various methods of preserving perishable foods in the 
home for winter use originated because of necessity. In locaHties 
where the seasons for fruits and vegetables are short, the available 
supply in early times was limited to its particular season. Then 
foods had to be preserved in some way to provide ' for the season 
of scarcity. It was not possible, as it is now, to obtain foods in all 
parts of the country from localities that produce abundantly or 
have long seasons, because there were no means of rapid transpor- 
tation, no cold storage, nor no commercial canning industries. 

2. In the small towns and farming communities, the first preser- 
vation methods for meats, as well as for fruits and vegetables, were 
pickling, curing, drying, and preserving. Not until later was canning 
known. It was this preserving of foodstuffs in the home that led 
to the manufacture and commercial canning of many kinds of 
edible materials. These industries, howevt r, are of comparatively 
recent origin, the first canning of foods commercially having been 
done in France about a hundred years ago. At that time glass jars 
were utilized, but it was not until tin cans came into use later in 
England that commercial canning met with much favor. 

3. Both canning in the home and commercial canning have had 
many drawbacks, chief among which was spoiling. It was believed 
that the spoiling of canned foods was due to the presence of air in 
the jars or cans, and it is only within the last 50 years that the true 
cause of spoiling, namely, the presence of bacteria, has been under- 
stood. Since that time methods of canning that are much more 
successful have been originated, and the present methods are the 
result of the study of bacteria and their functions in nature. It is 

COPYRIGHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§22 



2 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

now definitely known that on this knowledge depends the success 
of the various canning methods. 

4. Since commercial canning provides nearly every kind of 
foodstuff, and since cold storage and rapid transportation make it 
possible to supply almost every locality with foods that are out of 
season, it has not been deemed so necessary to preserve foods in the 
home. Nevertheless, the present day brings forth a new problem 
and a new attitude toward the home preservation of foods. There 
are three distinct reasons why foods should be preserved in the 
home. The first is to bring about economy. If fruits, vegetables, 
and other foods can be procured at a price that will make it possible 
to preserve them in the home at a lower cost than that of the same 
foods prepared commercially, it will pay from an economical stand- 
point. The second is to promote conservation; that is, to prevent 
the wasting of food. When fruits and vegetables are plentiful, the 
supply is often greater than the demand for immediate consump- 
tion. Then, unless the surplus food is preserved in some way for 
later use, there will be a serious loss of food material. The third 
is to produce quality. If the home-canned product can be made 
superior to that commercially preserved, then, even at an equal or a 
slightly higher cost, it will pay to preserve food in the home. 

5, Of the methods of preserving perishable foods, only two, 
namely, canning and drying, are considered in this Section. Before 
satisfactory methods of canning came into use, drying was a com- 
mon method of preservmg both fruits and vegetables, and while it 
has fallen into disuse to a great extent in the home, much may be 
said for its value. Drying consists merely in evaporating the water 
contained in the food, and, with the exception of keeping it dry 
and protected from vermin, no care need be given to the food in 
storage. In the preparation of dried food for the table, it is trans- 
formed into its original composition by the addition of water, in 
which it is usually soaked and then cooked. 

The drying of food is simple, and no elaborate equipment is 
required for carrying out the process. Dried food requires less 
space and care in storage than food preserved in any other way, and 
both paper and cloth containers may be used in storing it. When 
storage space is limited, or when there is a very large quantity 
of some such food as apples or string beans that cannot be used or 
canned at once, it is advisable to dry at least a part of them. When 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 3 

used in combination with canning, drying offers an excellent means 
of preserving foods and thus adding to their variety. 

6. Canning has a greater range of possibilities than drying. A 
larger number of foods can be preserved in this way, and, besides, 
the foods require very little preparation, in some cases none at all, 
when they are removed from the cans. Practically every food that 
may be desired for use at some future time may be canned and kept 
if the process is carried out properly. These include the perishable 
vegetables and fruits of the summer season, as well as any winter 
vegetables that are not likely to keep in the usual way or that are 
gathered while they are immature. 

Many ready-to-serve dishes may be made up when the ingredients 
are the most plentiful and canned to keep them for the time when 
they are difficult or impossible to obtain otherwise. Such foods are 
very convenient in any emergency. Often, too, when something is 
being cooked for the table, an extra supply may be made with no 
greater use of fuel and very little extra labor, and if the excess is 
canned it will save labor and fuel for another day. In the same 
way, left-over foods from the table may be preserved by reheating 
and canning them. Many foods and combinations of foods may be 
made ready for pies and desserts and then canned, it being often 
possible to use fruits that are inferior in appearance for such 
purposes. 

Soup may be canned. It may be made especially for canning, or 
it may be made in larger quantity than is required for a meal and 
the surplus canned. For canning, it is an excellent plan to make 
soup more concentrated than that which would be served immedi- 
ately, as such soup will require fewer jars and will keep better. 
Water or milk or the liquid from cooked vegetables or cereals may 
be added to dilute it when it is to be served. 

Meat and fish also may be canned, and many times it is advisable 
to do this, especially in the case of varieties that cannot be preserved 
to advantage by such methods as salting, pickling, or curing. 

7. The preservation of foods by canning and drying should not 
be looked at as an old-fashioned idea ; rather, it is a matter in which 
the housewife should be vitally interested. In fact, it is the duty 
of every housewife to learn all she can about the best methods to 
employ. Canning methods have been greatly improved within the 



4 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

last few years, and it is a wise plan to adopt the newer methods and 
follow directions closely. Especially should this be done if foods 
canned by the older methods have spoiled or if mold has formed 
on top of the food in the jars. 

In order to preserve foods successfully and with ease, the house- 
wife should realize the importance of carrying out details with pre- 
cision and care. The exactness with which the ingredients are 
measured, the choice and care of utensils, the selection and prepara- 
tion of the food to be canned — all have a direct bearing on whether 
her results will be successful or not. 

By observing such points and exercising a little ingenuity, the 
economical housewife may provide both a supply and a convenient 
variety of practical foods for winter use. For example, one single 
fruit or vegetable may be preserved in a number of ways. Thus, if 
there is a very large supply of apples that will not keep, some may 
be canned in large pieces, some may be put through a sieve, seasoned 
differently, and canned as apple sauce, and some may be cut into 
small pieces and canned for use in making pies. Apple butter and 
various kinds of jams and marmalades may be made of all or part 
apples, or the apples may be spiced and used as a relish. Combining 
fruits of different flavor in canning also adds variety. In fact, 
neither quinces nor apples canned alone are so delicious as the two 
properly combined and canned together. 

In the same way, if the housewife will watch the markets closely 
and make good use of materials at hand, she may provide canned 
foods at comparatively little cost. Of course, the woman who has 
a garden of her own has a decided advantage over the one who must 
depend on the market for foods to can. The woman with access to 
a garden may can foods as soon as they have been gathered, and for 
this reason she runs less risk of losing them after they have been 
canned. Nevertheless, as has been pointed out, it is really the duty 
of every housewife to preserve food in the home for the use of her 
family. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 



CANNING 



PRINCIPLES OF CANNING 

8. Canning consists in sealing foods in receptacles, such as 
cans 01 jars, in such a way that they will remain sterile for an indefi- 
nite period of time. Several methods of canning are in use, and the 
one to adopt will depend considerably on personal preference and 
the money that can be expended for the equipment. In any case, 
successful results in canning depend on the care that is given to every 
detail that enters into the work. This means, then, that from the 
selection of the food to be canned to the final operation in canning 
not one thing that has to do with good results should be overlooked. 

9. Selection of Food, for Cannings — A careful selection of 
the food that is to be canned is of great importance. If it is in good 
condition at the time of canning, it is much more likely to remain 
good when canned than food that is not. The flavor of the finished 
product also depends a great deal on the condition of the food. 
Fruits have the best flavor when they are ripe, but they are in the 
best condition for canning just before they have completely ripened. 
Immediately following perfect ripeness comes the spoiling stage, and 
if fruits, as well as vegetables, are canned before they are completely 
ripe, they are, of course, farther from the conditions that tend to 
spoil them. This, however, does not mean that green fruits or vege- 
tables should be canned. 

Whenever possible, any food that is to be canned should be per- 
fectly fresh. The sooner it is canned after it has been gathered, the 
more satisfactory will be the results. For instance, it is better to 
can it 12 hours after gathering than 24 hours, but to can it 2 hours 
after is much better. Fruits, such as berries, that are especially 
perishable should not be allowed to stand overnight if this can be 
prevented; and it is absolutely necessary to can some vegetables, 
such as peas, beans, and corn, within a very few hours after gather- 
ing. Unless this is done, they will develop a bad flavor because of 
flat sour, a condition that results from the action of certain bacteria. 



6 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

Imperfect fruits should not be canned, but should be used for mak- 
ing jam, marmalade, or jelly. 

10. Wliy Canned Foods Spoil. — Canned foods spoil because 
of the action of micro-organisms that cause fermentation, putre- 
faction, and molding. The reasons for the spoiling of food are 
thoroughly discussed in Essentials of Cookery, Part 2, and in that 
discussion canning is mentioned as one of the means of preserving 
food or preventing it from spoiling. However, when canning does 
not prove effective, it is because undesirable bacteria are present in 
the food. Either they have not been destroyed by the canning proc- 
ess or they have been allowed to enter before the jar was closed, 
and have then developed to such an extent as to cause the food to 
spoil. Odors, flavors, and gases result from the putrefaction, fer- 
mentation, or molding caused by these bacteria, and these make the 
foods offensive or harmful, or perhaps both. 

11. Preventing Canned Foods From Spoiling, — From 
what has just been said, it will be seen that the success of canning 
depends entirely on destroying harmful micro-organisms that are 
present in the food and preventing those present in the air from 
entering the jars in which the food is placed. 

Some foods are more difficult to keep than others, because bacteria 
act on them more readily and the foods themselves contain nothing 
that prevents their growth. Among such foods are meat, fish, peas, 
corn, beans, and meat soups. On the other hand, some foods con- 
tain acids that prevent the growth of bacteria, and these keep easily. 
Among these are rhubarb, cranberries, and green gooseberries. 
However, foods that keep easily are few, and in most cases extreme 
care in the process of canning must be exercised. 

12. While warmth is necessary for bacterial growth, very high 
temperatures will destroy or retard it. In canning, a temperature 
as high as 212 degrees Fahrenheit, or boiling point, retards the 
growth of active bacteria, but retarding their growth is not sufficient. 
They must be rendered inactive. To do this requires either a 
higher temperature than boiling point or long continued cooking at 
212 degrees. Spores are a protective form that many kinds of bac- 
teria assume under unfavorable conditions. They are very difficult 
to kill, and unless they are completely destroyed in the canning 
process, they will develop into active bacteria when conditions again 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 7 

become favorable. The result of the spore development is the spoil- 
ing of the food. 

13. Other things besides the application of heat assist in the 
keeping of canned food, as, for example, the acids of the fruits and 
vegetables themselves, as has been mentioned. The use of sugar 
also assists ; the greater the quantity of sugar in solution the easier 
it will be to keep the food. This is proved in the case of jams and 
jellies, which will keep without being sealed tight or put into jars 
immediately after cooking. Salt helps to keep vegetables that are 
canned, and, in making butters, conserves, and pickles, the spices 9,nd 
vinegars used help to protect the foods from bacterial action. How- 
ever, none of these things are essential to the keeping of any sterile 
food, by which is meant food in which all bacteria or sources of 
bacteria have been rendered inactive by the application of sufficient 
heat. 

14. Canning: Preservatives. — Numerous compounds, usually 
in the form of powders, are advertised as being useful for keeping 
canned foods from spoiling. None of them should be used, how- 
ever, because they are unnecessary. If the work of canning is care- 
fully and effectively done, good foods will keep perfectly without 
the addition of a preservative. The pure-food laws of the United 
States and of many of the states themselves forbid the use of some 
preservatives because of their harmful effect on the human system. 
For this reason, to say nothing of the extra expense that would be 
incurred in their use, such preservatives may well be left alone. 



GENERAL EQUIPMENT FOR CANNING 

15. The equipment required for canning depends on two things : 
the quantity of food to be canned at one time and, since there are 
several canning methods in use, the canning method that is to be 
employed. 

Various kinds of elaborate equipment have been devised to make 
the work of canning easy as well as effective. However, it is possi- 
ble to do excellent work with simple equipment, and if the matter 
of expense must be considered there should be no hesitation about 
choosing the simplest and least expensive and doing the work in the 
best possible way with it. It is important also that utensils already 



8 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

included in the household equipment be improvised to meet the 
needs of the canning season as far as possible. 

16. Whatever the canning method that is to be followed 
may be, there are a number of utensils and containers that go 
to make up the general equipment that is required. Famili- 
arity with such an equipment is extremely necessary for correct 
results in canning, and for this reason the general equipment is dis- 
cussed here in detail. The special equipment needed for each of the 
canning methods, however, is not taken up until the method is con- 
sidered. In giving this general equipment, mention is made of some 
utensils that are convenient but not absolutely necessary. Any 
unnecessary, but convenient, part of a canning equipment should 
therefore be chosen with a view to its labor-saving qualities and its 
expense. A device that will make the keeping of canned foods more 
certain and prevent loss may be a valuable purchase ; still, that which 
makes for greater convenience, but not absolute saving, need not be 
considered a necessity. 

17. Vessels for Canning. — The pots, kettles, and pans in 
ordinary use in the kitchen for cooking purposes are usually satis- 
factory for the canning of foods. Those made of tin or iron, how- 
ever, are not so good as enameled ones or those made of other 
metals, such as aluminum. Especially is this true of utensils used 
for the canning of acid fruits or vegetables, because, if such food 
remains in contact with tin or iron for more than a few minutes, the 
acid will corrode the surface sufficiently to give the food a bad or 
metallic taste. In addition, such utensils often give the food a dark 
color. If enameled kettles are used for the cooking of foods that are 
to be canned, it is important that the surface be perfectly smooth and 
unbroken. Otherwise, it will be difficult to prevent burning ; besides, 
chips of the enamel are liable to get into the food. Kettles for the 
cooking of fruits with sirup should be fiat and have a broad surface. 
Fruit is not so likely to crush in such kettles as in kettles that are 
deep and have a small surface. 

18. Knives, Spoons, and Other Small Utensils. — Many 
of the small utensils in a kitchen equipment are practically indis- 
pensable for canning purposes. Thus, for paring fruits and vege- 
tables and cutting out cores, blossoms, and stem ends or any defective 
spots, nothing is more satis^^actory than a sharp paring knife with a 




§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 9 

good point. For paring acid fruits, though, a plated knife is not so 
likely to cause discoloring as a common steel knife. There are, 
however, other useful implements for special 
work, such as the strazvberry huller, Fig. 1, for 
removing the stems of strawberries, and the 
peach pitter. Fig. 2, for removing the stones from 
clingstone peaches. For placing the food to be ''°' ^ 

canned into jars, both forks and large spoons are necessities. A 
large spoon with holes or slits in the bowl is convenient for picking 
fruits and vegetables out of a kettle when no liquid is desired, as 
well as for skimming a kettle of fruit. For packing foods into jars, 
a long-handled spoon with a small bowl is convenient. Still another 
useful small utensil is a short, wide funnel that may be inserted into 
the mouth of a jar and thus permit the food to be dipped or poured 
into it without being spilled. 

19. Devices for Measuring. — ^Accurate measures are neces- 
sary in canning ; in fact, some of the work cannot be done satisfac- 
torily without them. A half-pint measuring cup and a quart measure 
with the cups marked on it are very satisfactory for making aL 
measures. 

Scales are often convenient, too. For measuring dry materials, 
they are always more accurate than measures. Many canning pro- 
portions and recipes call for the measurement of the ingredients by 
weight rather than by measure. When this is the case and a pair 
of scales is not convenient, it is almost impossible to be certain that 
the proportions are correct. For instance, if a recipe calls for a 
pound of sugar and an equal amount of fruit, a measuring cup will 
in no way indicate the correct quantity. 

20. Colander and Wire Strainer^ — For the cleansing of 
fruits and vegetables that are to be canned, a colander is of great 
assistance; also, if a large wire strainer is purchased, it may be 
used as a sieve and for scalding and blanching, steps in canning 

that are explained later. 

21. Glass Jars. — For 

household canning, the most 
acceptable containers for food 
are glass jars that may be closed air-tight with jar rubbers and 
tops. Use is sometimes made of bottles, jars, and cans of various 
kinds that happen to be at hand, but never should they be employed 

WI-C5-rf 



Fig. 2 



10 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



unless they caij be fitted with covers and made positively air-tight. 
Like utensils, the glass jars that are a part of the household supply 
should be used from year to year, if possible, but not at the loss of 
material. Such loss, however, will depend on the proper sealing of 
the jars, provided everything up to that point has been correctly 
done. All jars should be carefully inspected before they are used, 
because imperfect or broken edges are often responsible for the 
spoiling of food. 

In purchasing glass jars, only what are known as first quality 
should be selected. Cheap jars are likely to be seconds and will not 
prove so satisfactory. Glass jars may be purchased in sizes that 
hold from ^ pint to 2 quarts. If possible, food should be canned in 
the size of jar that best suits the number of persons to be served. 

If the family consists of 
two, pint jars will hold 
even more than may be 
used at one time, while 
if the family is large the 
contents of a quart jar 
may not be sufficient. 

22. Numerous types 
of glass jars are to be 
had. Some of them are 
more convenient than 
others and may be made 
air-tight more easily. These two features are the most important to 
consider in making a selection. Jars that close with difficulty, espe- 
cially if the tops screw on, are not likely to keep food successfully 
because the bacteria in the air will have a chance to enter and thus 
cause the food to spoil. 

Glass jars used for canning foods have improved with canning 
methods. The old-style jars had a groove into which the cover fit, 
and melted sealing wax or rosin was poured into the space surround- 
ing the cover. Later came the screw-top jar shown in Fig. 3. This 
type of jar has been extensively used with excellent results. Both 
the mouth of this jar and the jar top, which is made of metal, usually 
zinc, lined with glass or porcelain, have threads that match, and the 
jar is sealed by placing the jar rubber over the top, or ridge, of the 
jar and then screwing the jar top firmly in place. Such jars, howr- 




FiG. 3 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



11 



ever, are more difficult to make air-tight than some of the newer 
types. One of these jars is illustrated in Fig. 4. It is provided with 
a glass cover that fits on the ridge of the jar and a metal clasp that 
serves to hold the cover in place and to make the jar air-tight after a 
rubber is placed in position. Another convenient and simple type 
of glass jar, known as the automatic seal top, has a metal cover with 
a rubber attached. 

Another improvement in jars is that the opening has been 
enlarged so that large fruits and vegetables, such as peaches, toma- 
toes, etc., can be packed into them whole. With such wide-mouthed 
jars, it is easier to pack the contents in an orderly manner and thus 
improve the appearance of the product. Besides, it is a simpler 
matter to clean such a 
jar than one that has a 
small opening. 

23. Jar Tops, or 
Covers. — While the 
tops, or covers, for glass 
jars are made of both 
metal and glass, as has 
been stated, the glass 
tops meet with most 
favor. Of course, they 
are breakable, but they 
are even more durable than metal tops, which are usually ren- 
dered less effective by the bending they undergo when they are 
removed from the jar. Covers made of zinc are being rapidly 
abandoned, and it has been proved that the fewer the grooves and 
the simpler the cover, the more carefully and successfully can it be 
cleaned. For safety, glass tops that have become chipped or nicked 
on the edges that fit the jar should be replaced by perfect ones. 
The covers for automatic-seal jars must be pierced before they can 
be removed, and this necessitates a new supply for each canning. If 
there is any question about the first-class condition of jar covers, 
whether of metal or glass, tops that are perfect should be provided. 

24. Jar Rubbers. — Jar rubbers are required with jar tops to 
seal jars air-tight. Before they are used, they should be tested in the 
manner shown in Fig. 5. Good jar rubbers will return to their 
original shape after being stretched. Such rubbers should be rather 




Fig. 4 



12 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



soft and elastic, and they should fit the jars perfectly and lie down 
flat when adjusted. A new supply of rubbers should be purchased 
each canning season, because rubber deteriorates as it grows old. 
Rubbers of good quality will stand boiling for 5 hours without being 
affected, but when they have become stiff and hard from age it is 
sometimes impossible to make jars air-tight. Occasionally, two old 
rubbers that are comparatively soft may be used in place of a new 
one, and sometimes old rubbers are dipped in paraffin and then used. 
However, if there is any difficulty in sealing jars properly with rub- 
bers so treated, they should be discarded and good ones used. 

25. Tin Cans. — For household canning, tin cans are not so 
convenient as glass jars, but in spite of this they are coming into 

extensive use. The kind 
that may be used with- 
out any special equip- 
ment has a tin lid that 
fits into a groove and is 
fastened in place with 
rosin or sealing wax. 
Some cans, however, re- 
quire that the lids be 
soldered in place. While 
soldering requires spe- 
cial equipment, this 
method of making the 
cans air-tight is the best, and it is employed where considerable 
canning is done, as by canning clubs or commercial canners. 

In the purchase of tin cans, the size of the opening should receive 
consideration. If large fruits and vegetables, such as peaches, pears, 
and tomatoes, are to be canned, the opening must be a large one; 
whereas, if peas, beans, corn, and other small vegetables or fruits 
are to be canned, cans having a smaller opening may be chosen. 
When acid fruits or vegetables are to be canned, use should be made 
of cans that are coated with shellac, as this covering on the inside 
of the cans prevents any action of the acid on the tin. 




Fig. 5 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 13 



CANNING METHODS 



GBNBRAL DlSCrSSIOlV 

26. The methods employed for the canning of foods include 
the open-kettle method, the cold-pack method, the steam-pressure 
method, and the oven method. Of these, the open-kettle method is 
perhaps the oldest household method of canning, and it is still used 
by many housewives. The other methods, which are newer, seem 
troublesome to the housewife who is familiar with the open-kettle 
method, yet it will only be fair to give the new methods a trial before 
deciding which to use. The one-period cold-pack method has much 
to recommend it. Foods canned in this way undergo less change in 
form and flavor than those canned by the open-kettle method; 
besides, there is less danger of spoiling. In fact, many foods, such 
as vegetables and meats, that cannot be canned satisfactorily by the 
open-kettle method will keep perfectly if they are carefully preserved 
by the one-period cold-pack method. The steam-pressure method 
requires the use of special equipment, as is explained later. While 
it is a very acceptable canning method, it is not accessible in many 
homes. The oven method is liked by many housewives, but it offers 
almost the same chance for contamination as does the open-kettle 
method. 



OPEIV-KBTTIiE METHOD 



27. The open-ltettle metliod of canning is very simple and 
requires no equipment other than that to be found in every kitchen. 
It consists in thoroughly cooking the food that is to be canned, 
transferring it to containers, and sealing them immediately. 

28. Utensils Required. — Not many utensils are required for 
the open-kettle canning method. For cooking the food, a large 
enamel or metal vessel other than tin or iron should be provided. 
It should be broad and shallow, rather than deep, especially for 
fruit, as this food retains its shape better if it is cooked in a layer 
that is not deep. The other utensils for canning fruits and vegetables 
by this method are practically the same as those already discussed — 
measuring utensils, a knife, large spoons, pans for sterilizing jars 
or cans, covers, rubbers, and jars or cans into which to put the food. 



14 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

29. Procedure. — The first step in the open-kettle canning 
method consists in steriHzing the containers. To do this, first clean 
the jars, covers, and rubbers by washing them and then boiling them 
in clear water for 15 to 20 minutes. 

Next, attention should be given to the food that is to be canned. 
Look it over carefully, cut out any decayed portions, and wash it 
thoroughly. Sometimes roots, leaves, stems, or seeds are removed 
before washing, and sometimes this is not done until after washing. 
At any rate, all dirt or foreign material must be washed from foods 
before they are ready for canning. 

After preparing the food, it must be cooked. If fruit is being 
canned, put it into the required sirup, the making of which is 
explained later, and cook it until it is well softened, as if preparing 
it for immediate table use. If vegetables are being canned, cook 
them in the same way, but use salt and water instead of sirup. 
When the food is cooked, transfer it to the sterile jars and seal at 
once with the sterile rubbers and covers. Then invert each jar to 
permit the food to cool and to test for leaks. 

30. The danger of not securing good results with the open-kettle 
method lies in the possibility of contaminating the contents before 
the jar is closed and sealed. In addition to having the jars, rubbers, 
and covers sterile, therefore, all spoons and other utensils used to 
handle the cooked food must be sterile. Likewise, the jars must be 
filled to the top and the covers put on and made as firm and tight 
as possible at once, so that as few bacteria as possible will enter. If 
screw-top cans are used, the tops should not be twisted or turned 
after cooling, as this may affect the sealing. If jars leak upon being 
turned upside down, the contents must be removed and reheated and 
the jar must be fitted with another cover. Then both jar and cover 
must be sterilized and the contents returned and sealed immediately. 



COLD-PACK METHOD 

31. The cold-pack metliod of canning differs from the open- 
kettle method in that the food to be canned is not cooked in a kettle 
before placing it in the jars and sealing them. In this method, the 
food to be canned is prepared by washing, peeling, scraping, hulling, 
stemming, seeding, or cutting, depending on the kind. Then it is 
scalded or blanched and plunged into cold water quickly and taken 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



15 



out immediately, the latter operation being called cold-dipping. 
After this it is placed into hot jars, covered with boiling liquid — 
boiling water and salt for vegetables, meats, fish, or soups, and 
boiling sirup for fruits. Then the filled jars are covered loosely 
and placed in a water bath and processed ; that is, cooked and ster- 
ilized. When food that is being canned is subjected to processing 
only once, the method is referred to as the one-period cold-pack 
method; but when the food in the jars has not been blanched and 
cold-dipped and is processed, allowed to stand 24 hours and then 
processed again, and this operation repeated, it is called the frac- 
tional-sterilisation method. The equipment required for the cold- 
pack canning method and the procedure in performing the work are 
taken up in detail, so that every point concerning the work may be 
thoroughly understood. 

32. Utensils Required. — The utensils required for canning by 
the cold-pack method are shown assembled in Fig. 6. Chief among 




Fig. 6 

them is a steriliser, or boiler, which consists of a large flat-bottomed 
vessel fitted with a rack and a tight-fitting cover. A number of such 
devices are manufactured for canning by the cold-pack method, but 
it is possible to improvise one in the home. A wash boiler, a large 
pail, a large lard can, or, in fact, any large vessel with a flat bottom 
into which is fitted a rack of some kind to keep the jars f inch above 
the bottom can be used. Several layers of wire netting cut to cor- 
rect size and fastened at each end to a f-inch strip of wood will do 
very well for a rack. In any event, the vessel must be deep enough 
to allow the water to cover the jars completely and must have a 
tight-fitting cover. Besides a sterilizer, there are needed three large 
vessels, one for scalding the food that is to be canned, one for cold- 
dipping, and one for keeping the jars hot. To hold the food that is 



16 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



to be dipped, a sieve, a wire basket, also shown in Fig. 6, or a large 
square of cheesecloth must also be provided, and for placing jars in 
the water bath, a can lifter, a type of which is shown on the table in 
Fig. 6, may be needed. The remainder of the equipment is prac- 
tically the same as that described under the heading General Equip- 
ment for Canning. 

PROCEDURE IN THE ONE-PERIOD COLD-PACK METHOD 

33. Preparing the Containers. — The first step in the cold- 
pack method consists in preparing the containers for the food. The 
jars, rubbers, and covers, however, do not have to be sterilized as 
in the open-kettle method. But it is necessary first to test and 

cleanse the jars and then 
to keep them hot, so that 
later, when they are 
filled and ready to be 
placed in the water bath, 
they will not crack by 
coming in contact with 
boiling water. The best 
way in which to keep the 
jars hot is to let them 
stand in hot water. 

34. Preparation 
of the Food. — Atten- 
tion should next be 
directed to the prepara- 
tion of the food to be 
canned; that is, clean it 
and have it ready for the 
processes that follow. 
The fruits or vegetables may be canned whole or in pieces of any 
desirable size. What to do with them is explained later, when the 
directions for canning the different kinds are discussed. While the 
food is undergoing preparation, fill the sterilizer with hot water and 
allow it to come to the boiling point. 

35. Scalding and Blanching. — ^When the food is made 
ready, the next step is to scald or blanch it. Scalding is done to 
loosen the skin of such food as peaches, plunls, and tomatoes, so 







m 




1 


l^'A ii 




^^*^^^^^^B 




m^m/ 




Ili^M -'-j^^J 


1 






■ 


■p» • ••• 






p 






"W .^^ 






ffmt^'j. 


i' ^K^9^^^^^H 


H 


E 








i 



Fig. 7 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



17 



that they may be peeled easily. To scald such fruits or vegetables, 
dip them quickly into boiling water and allow them to remain there 
just long enough to loosen the skin. If they are ripe, the scalding 
must be done quickly ; otherwise they will become soft. They should 
never be allowed to remain in the water after the skin begins to 
loosen. For scalding fruits and vegetables a wire basket or a square 
of cheesecloth may be used in the manner shown in Figs. 7 and 8. 
Blanching is done to reduce the bulk of such foods as spinach 
and other greens, to render them partly sterilized, and to improve 
their flavor. It consists in dipping the food into boiling water or 
suspending it over live steam and allowing it to remain there for a 
longer period of time than is necessary for scalding. To blanch 
food, place it in a wire 
basket, a sieve, or a piece 
of clean cheesecloth and 
lower it into boiling 
water or suspend it 
above the water in a 
closely covered vessel. 
Allow it to remain there 
long enough to accom- 
plish the purpose in- 
tended. 

36. Cold-Dipping. 

After the food to be 
canned is scalded or 
blanched, it is ready for 
cold-dipping. Cold-dip- 
ping is done partly to 
improve the color of the 
food. It stops the softening process at once, makes the food more 
firm and thus easier to handle, and helps to loosen the skin of foods 
that have been scalded. It also assists in destroying bacteria by 
suddenly shocking the spores after the application of heat. Cold- 
dipping, in conjunction with blanching or scalding, replaces the long 
process of fractional sterilization, and is what makes the one-period 
cold-pack method superior to this other process. To cold-dip food, 
simply plunge that which has just been scalded or blanched into cold 
water, as in Fig. 9, and then take it out at once. 




Fig. 8 



18 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



37. Packing: the Jars. — Packing the jars immediately follows 
cold-dipping, and it is work that should be done as rapidly as possi- 
ble. Remove the jars from the hot water as they are needed and 




Fig. 9 

fill each with the cold-dipped fruit or vegetable. Pack the jars in 
an orderly manner and as solidly as possible with the aid of a spoon, 
as in Fig. 10. Just this little attention to detail not only will help to 
improve the appearance of the canned fruit, but will make it possible 
to put more food in the jars. 

When a jar is filled, pour into it whatever liquid is to be used, as 
in Fig. 11. As has been stated, hot sirup is added for fruits and 
boiling water and salt for vegetables. However, when fruit is to 
be canned without sugar, only water is added. With tomatoes and 

some greens, no liquid 
need be used, because 
they contain a sufficient 
amount in themselves. 

38. P r e p a ration 
for the Water Bath. 

As the jars are filled, 
they must be prepared 
for the water bath. 
Therefore, proceed to 
place the rubber and 
cover on the jar. Adjust 
the rubber, as shown in 
Fig. 12, so that it will be flat in place. Then put the cover, or lid, 
on as in Fig. 13, but do not tighten it. The cover must be loose 
enough to allow steam to escape during the boiling in the water 




Fig. 10 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



19 



bath and thus prevent the jar from bursting. If the cover screws 
on, as in the jar at the left, do not screw it down tight; merely 
turn it lightly until it stops without pressure being put upon it. If 
glass covers that fasten in place with the aid of a clamp are to be 




Fig. 11 

used, as in the jar at the right, simply push the wire over the cover 
and allow the clamp at the side to remain up. Jars of food so pre- 
pared are ready for 
processing. 

39. Processing. 

The purpose of the 

water bath is to process 

the food contained in 

the jars before they 

are thoroughly sealed. 

Therefore, when the jars 

are filled, proceed to 

place them in the water 

bath. The water, which 

was placed in the sterilizer during the preparation of the food, should 

be boiling, and there should be enough to come 2 inches over the 

tops of the jars when they are placed in this large vessel. In putting 

the jars of food into the sterilizer, place them upright and allow 




Fig. 12 



20 



CANNING AND DRYING 



122 




Fig. 13 



them to rest on the rack in the bottom. If the filled jars have cooled, 

they should be warmed before placing them in the sterilizer by 

putting them in hot 
water. On account of 
the boiling water, the 
jars should be handled 
with a jar lifter, as in 
Fig. 14. However, if 
the sterilizer is provided 
with a perforated part 
like that in Fig. 15, all 
the jars may be placed 
in it. and then lowered in 
place. 
When the jars are in 

place, put the tight-fitting cover on the sterilizer and allow the water 

to boil and thus cook and sterilize the food in the jars. The length 

of time for boiling varies with the kind of food and is given later 

with the directions for 

canning different foods. 

The boiling time should 

be counted from the 

instant the water in the 

sterilizer begins to bub- 
ble violently. A good 

plan to follow, provided 

an alarm clock is at 

hand, it to set it at this 

time, so that it will go 

off when the jars are to 

be removed from the 

sterilizer. 

40. Sealing: the 
Jars< — ^After processing 
the food in this manner, 
the jars must be com- 
pletely sealed. There- 
fore, after the boiling has continued for the required length of 
time, remove the jars from the water with the aid of the jar lifter 




Fig. 14 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



21 



or the tray iand seal them at once by clamping or screwing the 
covers, or lids, in place, as in Fig. 16. Sometimes, the food inside 
the jars shrinks so much 
in this process that the 
jars are not full when 
they are ready to be 
sealed. This is illus- 
trated in Fig. 17. Such 
shrinkage is usually the 
result of insufficient 
blanching, or poor pack- 
ing or both. However, it 
will not prevent the food 
from keeping perfectly. 
Therefore, the covers 
of such jars of food 
must not be removed 
and the jars refilled; 
rather, seal the jars tight 
immediately, just as if 
the food entirely filled 
them. If, in sealing jars 
removed from the water bath, it is found that a rubber has worked 
loose, shove it back carefully with the point of a clean knife, but do 

not remove the cover. 
As the jars are sealed, 
place them on their sides 
or stand them upside 
down, as in Fig. 18, to 
test for leaks, in a place 
where a draft will not 
strike them and cause 
them to break. If a leak 
is found in any jar, a 
new rubber and cover 
must be provided and 
the food then reproc- 
essed for a few minutes. This may seem to be a great inconveni- 
ence, but it is the only way in which to be certain that the food 
will not be wasted by spoiling. 





■ 






r 


W^ 


""s- 1H 


H^^H^HHP^T ^z. j/,^^^^. 


w 


^j^^H 






s 


^1 




L* 




H 


m^^> JSr^^ 


W 


1 




1 




M 


1 




BH 




1 



Fig. 15 




Fig. 16 




Fig. 17 







i 



Fig. 18 




Fio. 19 



22 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 23 

41. Wrapping and Labeling. — ^When the jars of food have 
stood long enough to cool, usually overnight, they are ready for 
wrapping and labeling. Wrapping is advisable for practically all 
foods that are canned, so as to prevent bleaching, and, of course, 
labeling is necessary when canned food is wrapped, so as to enable 
it to be distinguished readily when it is in storage. To wrap caiined 
foods, proceed as in Fig. 19. Use ordinary wrapping paper cut to 
a size that will be suitable for the jar, and secure it in place with a 
rubber band, as shown, or by pasting the label over the free edge. 



PROCEDURE IN THE FRACTIONAIj-STERHjIZATION METHOD 

42. In canning food by the fractional-sterilization can- 
ning method, the procedure is much the same as in the one-pfiriod 
cold-pack method. In fact, the only difference between the two is 
that blanching and cold-dipping are omitted, and in their stead the 
food in the jars is subjected to three periods of cooking. When the 
jars of food are made ready for processing in the sterilizer, they are 
put in the water bath, boiled for a short time, and then allowed to 
cool. After 24 hours, they are again boiled for the same length of time 
and allowed to cool. After another 24 hours, they are subjected to 
boiling for a third time. Then the jars of food are removed and 
sealed as in the one-period cold-pack method. By the fractional- 
sterilization method, the spores of bacteria contained in the food 
packed in the jars are given a chance to develop during the 24-hour 
periods after the first and second cookings, those which become 
active being destroyed by cooking the second and third times. 
Although some canners prefer this method to those already men- 
tioned, the majority look on it with disfavor, owing to the length 
of time it requires, 

STE AIM-PRESSURE METHODS 

43. For canning foods by steam pressure, special equipment is 
necessary. In one of the steam-pressure methods, what is known as 
a water-seal outfit is required, and in the other a device called a 
pressure cooker is employed. The work of getting the containers 
ready, preparing the food for canning, packing it into the jars, and 
sealing and testing the jars is practically the same in the steam pres- 
sure methods as in the cold-pack methods. The difference lies in the 



24 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



cooking and sterilization of the foods after they are in the jars and 
partly sealed and in the rapidity with which it may be done. 

44. Canning With a Water-Seal Outfit. — ^A water-seal 
outfit, which may be purchased in stores that sell canning supplies, 
consists of a large metal vessel into which fits a perforated metal 
basket designed to hold jars of food. This vessel is also provided 
with a tight-fitting cover having an edge that passes down through 
the water, which is placed in the bottom of the vessel. When heat 
is applied to the bottom of the vessel, the water inside of it is 
changed into steam. The cover prevents the steam from passing 
out, and it collects in and around the metal basket supporting the 

jars of food. Enough steam is generated 
in this outfit to raise the temperature 
about 4 to 6 degrees above the boiling 
point. Thus, the water-seal outfit will 
cook the food in the cans in about one- 
fourth less time than will the water 
bath of the one-period cold-pack canning 
method. 




45. Canning "Witli a Pressure 

Cooker. — For canning by steam pressure, 
a number of different kinds of pressure 
cookers are to be had, but in principle they 
are all alike and they are always made of 
heavy material, so as to withstand the 
Pjg 20 severe steam pressure generated in them. 

In Fig. 20 is shown one type of pressure 
cooker. It is provided with a bail, or handle, for carrying it and 
with clamps that hold the cover firmly in place. Attached to the 
cover is a steam gauge, which indicates the steam pressure inside 
the cooker, and a pet-cock, which is used to regulate the pressure. 
On some cookers, a thermometer is also attached to the cover. 
Also, inside of some, resting on the bottom, is an elevated rack for 
supporting the jars of food that are to be sterilized and cooked. In 
operating a pressure cooker, water for generating steam is poured in 
until it reaches the top of this rack, but it should not be allowed to 
cover any part of the jars of food. Steam is generated by applying 
heat to the bottom of the cooker, and the longer the heat is applied 
the higher the steam pressure will go. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 25 

It is possible to secure a steam pressure of 5 to 25 pounds per 
square inch in a cooker of this kind. This means that the temper- 
ature reached will vary from a few degrees above boiling to about 
275 degrees Fahrenheit. At a pressure of 20 pounds, the temper- 
ature will be about 260 degrees. The heavier the material used for 
a cooker and the more solid the construction, the higher may go 
the steam pressure, and, of course, the temperature. Some cookers 
of light construction will not permit of a pressure greater than 
5 pounds, but even such cookers are very satisfactory. It is 'the 
high temperature that may be developed in a pressure cooker that 
greatly shortens the time required for cooking jars of food and 
making them sterile. 

CANNIIVG WITH TIN CANS 

46. For canning food in some tin cans, it is necessary to have a 
soldering outfit for properly closing them. This consists of a capping 
steel, a tipping iron, solder in small strips and in powder form, a 
small can of sal ammoniac, and a bottle of flux, which is a fluid that 
makes solder stick to tin. 

47. Prepare the food that is to be canned in tin cans in the same 
way as for canning in jars by the cold-pack method ; likewise, pack 
the cans in the same way, but allow the liquid and fruit or vegetables 
to come to within only i inch of the top. Then proceed to close the 
cans. Apply the flux to the groove in the top of each can where the 
solder is to be melted, using for this purpose a small brush or a 
small stick having a piece of cloth wrapped around one end. Heat 
the capping steel, which should be thoroughly clean, until it is almost 
red hot, dip it quickly into a little of the flux, and then put it into a 
mixture consisting of equal parts of sal ammoniac and powdered 
solder until it is covered with bright solder. Put the cap on the can 
and apply the hot capping steel covered with the solder. Hold this 
device firmly, press it downwards, and turn it slowly as the solder 
melts and thus joins the cap to the can. 

48. After the caps are soldered in place, the air inside the cans 
must be driven out through the small vent, or opening, usually in 
the center of the cap, and the cans made air-tight. Therefore, place 
the cans into boiling water to within 1 inch of the top and let them 
remain there for a few minutes. Usually, 3 minutes in boiling water 
is sufficient. Immediately after exhausting, as this process is called, 

WI-CS-7 



26 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

apply a little of the flux as in capping, and, with the tipping iron 
well heated and a strip of solder, seal the hole in the caps. After 
this is done, test each can for leaks by submerging it in water. If 
bubbles arise, it is an indication that the cover is not tight and must 
be resoldered. 

49. The next step consists in processing the cans of food. This 
may be done either in a water bath or in a pressure cooker. If the 
cans are to be processed in a water bath, keep them in the boiling 
water just as long as glass jars of food would be kept there. If a 
pressure cooker is to be used, keep the cans in it for 6 to 40 minutes, 
depending on the steam pressure employed, the ripeness of the food 
or the necessity for cooking it, and the size of the cans employed. 
For canning meat or fish, processing in a pressure cooker is the most, 
successful, as the high temperature reached in it kills bacteria, which 
are difficult to destroy at the boiling point. 

As soon as the cans of food are removed from the water bath or 
the pressure cooker, plunge them into cold water to stop the cooking 
and prevent the food from getting soft and mushy. Then label the 
cans, so that no mistake will be made as to their contents. 

50. In another method, the tin cans may be closed without 
soldering the caps on. The caps used in this case are different from 
those which must be soldered. They are forced in place by a hand- 
pressure machine that may be attached to a table. Otherwise the 
procedure is the same as that just given. 



OVEN METHOD 

51. The oven method of canning is thought to be very satis- 
factory by many housewives, but, as it is necessary to remove the 
covers after cooking the contents of the jars, food canned in this 
way is subjected to contamination, just as in the open-kettle method. 
In addition, the jars are difficult to handle in the oven, owing to the 
extreme heat that is required to cook the food in the jars. 

52. In canning by the oven method, proceed by preparing the 
food as for the cold-pack canning method; also, fill the jars with 
fruit or vegetables and with liquid or sirup as in this method. Put 
the covers on the jars loosely, omitting the jar rubbers. Place the 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



27 



jars in a shallow pan of water, as in Fig. 21, and set the pan contain- 
ing the jars into a stove oven, which should be only slightly warm. 
At the same time place the jar rubbers in a pan of boiling water, so 
that they may be sterilized as the food cooks. When the jars are in 
the oven, increase the heat gradually until the food in them boils. 
Then keep up a temperature that will allow the food to boil quietly 
for a period long enough to cook it soft and sterilize it. Usually, 




Fig. 21 

30 to 45 minutes after boiling has begun will be sufficient. During 
the cooking some of the liquid in the jars evaporates. Therefore, 
when the jars of food are ready to be removed from the oven, have 
boiling water or sirup ready, remove the cover of each jar in turn, 
and fill the jar brimful with the liquid. Then place a sterilized rub- 
ber in place and fasten the cover down tight. The procedure from 
this point on is the same as in the other canning methods. 



CANNING VJEGETABLES AND FRUITS 



PRBPARATION FOR CANJTING 

53. In canning, as in all other tasks related to cookery, the 
housewife's aim should be to do the greatest amount of work, and 
do it well, with the least effort on her part. The results she gets in 
canning, then, will depend considerably on the orderly arrangement 
of the utensils and materials with which she is to do the work. But 
of greater importance is the preparation she makes to eliminate as 
much as she can the possibilities of contamination, for, as has been 
repeatedly pointed out, success in canning depends on the absence 
of dangerous bacteria. 



28 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

54. From what has just been mentioned, it is essential that 
everything about the person who is to do the work and the place in 
which the work is to done should be clean. Clean dresses and 
aprons should be worn, and the hands and finger nails should be 
scrupulously clean. The kitchen floor should be scrubbed and the 
furniture dusted with a damp cloth. Any unnecessary utensils and 
kitchen equipment should be put out of the way and those required 
for canning assembled and made ready for the work. The jars 
should be washed and the covers tested by fitting them on without 
the rubbers. If a glass cover rocks, it does not fit correctly; and if a 
screw cover will not screw down tight, it should be discarded. With- 
out the rubber, there should be just enough space between the cover 
and the jar to permit the thumb nail to be inserted as is shown in 
Fig. 3. The edge of each jar and each glass cover should be care- 
fully examined every time it is used, so that none with pieces chipped 
off will be used, as these will admit air. This examination is made 
by running the finger over the edge of the jar and the cover, as is 
shown in Fig. 4. The jars, covers, and rubbers should be put 
into pans of cold water, and the water should be brought to 
the boiling point and allowed to boil for IS minutes or more while 
the fruit or vegetables are being prepared for canning. They should 
be kept in the hot water until the food is ready to be placed in them. 
In the one-period cold-pack method, it is not necessary to boil the 
jars, rubbers, and covers, but this may be done if desired. 

To produce good-looking jars of food, the fruit or vegetables to 
be canned should be graded to some extent ; that is, the finest of the 
fruits or vegetables should be separated and used by themselves, as 
should also those of medium quality. Often it is wise to use the 
poorest foods for purposes other than canning. The food may then 
be canned according to the chosen method, but by no means should 
methods be mixed. In handling the product after it has been cooked 
by the open-kettle method, any spoon, funnel, or other utensil must 
be thoroughly sterilized in the same way as the jars and their -covers 
and rubbers; indeed, no unsterile utensil should ever be allowed to 
touch the food when a jar is being filled. 

55. It is by the observance of such precautions as these, some 
of them seemingly unimportant, that the housewife will be repaid 
for her efforts in canning and be able to produce canned fruits and 
vegetables like those shown in color in Fig. 22. This illustration 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 29 

shows, with a few exceptions, such foods canned by the one-period 
cold-pack method, and merits close inspection. As will be observed, 
the jars are full and well packed and the color of each food is 
retained. Each can of food, indicates careful work and serves to 
show the housewife what she may expect if she performs her work 
under the right conditions and in the right way. This illustration 
likewise serves to demonstrate that any food may be successfully 
canned by the one-period cold-pack method, a claim that cannot be 
made for the other canning methods. In fact, some of the foods 
illustrated, as, for instance, peas and corn, cannot be canned success- 
fully by any other method. 



DIRECTIONS FOB CANNING VEGKTAB1,BS 

56. Classification of Vegetables. — ^To simplify the direc- 
tions here given for the canning of vegetables, this food is divided 
into four groups, as follows : 

1. Greens, which include all wild and cultivated edible greens, 
such as beet greens, coUards, cress, dandelion, endive, horseradish 
greens, kale, mustard greens, spinach, New Zealand spinach, and 
Swiss chard. 

2. Pod and related vegetables, which include asparagus, beans, 
both string and wax, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, egg- 
plant, okra, peppers, both green and ripe, summer squash, and vege- 
table marrow. 

3. Root and tuber vegetables, which include beets, carrots, kohl- 
rabi, parsnips, rutabagas, salsify, sweet potatoes, and turnips. 

4. Special vegetables, which include beans, both Lima and shell, 
com, mushrooms, peas, pumpkin, sauerkraut, squash, succotash and 
other vegetable combinations, and tomatoes. 

The convenience of this plan will be readily seen when it is under- 
stood that, with the exception of the special vegetables, the same 
method of preparation and the time given for the various steps* in 
the canning process apply to all vegetables of the same class. Thus, 
if directions for a vegetable belonging to a certain class are not 
definitely stated in the text, it may be taken for granted that this 
vegetable may be canned in the manner given for another vegetable 
of the same class. 

57. General Directions. — The canning of vegetables may be 
most successfully done by the one-period cold-pack method. Toma- 



30 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

toes, however, because of the large quantity of acid they contain, 
may be canned and kept with little difficulty by the open-kettle 
method, but they will be found to keep their shape better if the cold- 
pack method is employed. 

The time required for cooking any vegetable after it is packed in 
jars depends on the kind and the age. Therefore, if a vegetable is 
hard or likely to be tough, it may be necessary to increase the time 
given in the directions ; whereas, if it is young and tender or very 
ripe, as in the case of tomatoes, the time for cooking may perhaps 
have to be decreased. Because, in altitudes higher than sea level, the 
boiling point of water is lower than 212 degrees Fahrenheit, the 
length of time for boiling foods in the water bath must be increased 
after an altitude of 500 feet is reached. Therefore, for every addi- 
tional 500 "feet over the first 500 feet, 10 per cent, should be added 
to the time given for the boiling in water. In case a pressure cooker 
is used, however, this is not necessary. 

The canning directions here given are for 1-quart jars. If pint 
jars are to be used, decrease the salt proportionately; also, decrease 
the time for .cooking in each case one-fifth of the time, or 20 per 
cent. If 2-quart jars are to be used, double the amount of salt and 
add to the length of time for cooking one-fifth, or 20 per cent. For 
instance, if a 1-quart jar of food requires 90 minutes, a pint jar of 
the same food would require 72 minutes and a 2-quart jar, 108 
minutes. 



GROUP 1— GREENS 



58. In canning greens, or vegetables belonging to the first group, 
select those which are fresh and tender. Greens that are old and 
inclined to be strong and tough may require longer blanching and 
cooking. Look the greens over carefully, rejecting all leaves that 
are wilted or otherwise spoiled. Cut oflE the roots and drop the 
leaves into a pan of cold water. Wash these thoroughly a number 
of times, using fresh water each time, in order to remove all sand 
and dirt that may be clinging to them. Then proceed to blanch 
them for 10 to 15 minutes in steam, suspending the greens over 
boiling water in a piece of cheesecloth, a colander, or the top of a 
steamer. After blanching, dip them quickly into cold water. Then 
pack the greens tightly into jars and add 1 teaspoonful of salt to each 
jarful. No water has to be added to greens, because the leaves 
themselves contain sufficient water. When the jars are thus packed, 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 31 

adjust the covers and proceed to sterilize and cook the greens accord- 
ing to the directions previously given. If the water bath is to be 
used, boil them in it for 1^ to 2 hours ; but if the pressure cooker is 
to be employed for this purpose, cook them at a 5-pound pressure 
for 60 minutes or at a 10-pound pressure for 40 minutes. 



GROtJP 2— POD AND RELATED VEGETABLES 

59. The best results in canning vegetables belonging to the sec- 
ond group will be derived when those which are fresh and tender are 
selected. As has been mentioned, the sooner vegetables are canned 
after they are taken from the garden, the better will be the canned 
product. Directions for practically all vegetables included in this 
group are here given. 

60. Asparagus. — Select tender asparagus, and proceed with 
the canning no later than 5 hours after it has been taken from the 
garden. Remove the hard portions at the ends of the stems, and 
cut the trimmed stems into pieces the length of the jars into which 
they are to be placed. If preferred, however, the asparagus may be 
cut into small pieces. Wash the cut asparagus thoroughly in cold 
water, and then sort out the uneven pieces that were cut off in 
making the stems even in length. These may be canned separately 
for soup. Lay the stems of asparagus in an orderly pile in a 
colander or a wire basket, cover it, and place it into a large vessel 
where it may be kept completely covered with boiling water for 
5 minutes. Then cold-dip the asparagus quickly, and pack it neatly 
into the jars, keeping the tip ends up. Add 1 teaspoonful of salt 
to each jarful and pour boiling water into each jar until it is com- 
pletely full. Adjust the covers and proceed to sterilize and cook the 
jars of food. Cook for 1^ to 2 hours in the water bath, or, in the 
pressure cooker, cook for 60 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or 
for 40 minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

61. Brussels Sprouts, CaT)bage, and. Cauliflower. — In 

canning Brussels sprouts, cabbage, or cauliflower, first prepare each 
vegetable as if it were to be cooked for the table. When thus made 
ready, blanch it with the aid of a square of cheesecloth or a colander 
in live steam, over boiling water, for 10 to 15 minutes. Then cold- 
dip it and pack it tightly into the jars. Add 1 teaspoonful of salt 
to each jarful and fill each jar with boiling water. Proceed next 



32 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

to sterilize and cook it according to the method selected. Boil for 90 
minutes in the water bath; in the pressure cooker, cook for 60 
minutes at a 5-pound pressure or for 40 minutes at a 10-pound 
pressure. 

62. Eggplant and Summer Sauash. — Both eggplant and 
summer squash are canned in the same way, because the consistency 
of these vegetables is much alike. Select firm vegetables with no 
decayed spots. Blanch for 3 to 8 minutes in boiling water ; cold-dip 
quickly ; remove the skins ; cut into pieces of a size that will fit into 
the jars; pack into the jars; and add 1 teaspoonful of salt to each 
jarful. Next, adjust the jar lids and proceed according to the direc- 
tions given for the method selected. In the water bath, boil for 
li hours ; in the pressure cooker, cook for 60 minutes at a pressure 
of 5 pounds or for 40 minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. Egg- 
plant or summer squash so canned may be rolled in egg and crumbs 
and sauted or fried, the same as fresh vegetables of this kind. 

63. Okra and Green Peppers. — Both okra and green pep- 
pers may also be canned in the same way. Prepare these vegetables 
for canning by washing fresh, tender pods of either vegetable thor- 
oughly. Blanch for 5 to 15 minutes in boiling water and cold-dip 
quickly. Pack the pods into the jars, add a teaspoonful of salt to 
each jarful, and fill the jars with boiling water. Adjust the lids and 
proceed according to directions for the method selected. In the 
water bath, boil for IJ to 2 hours; in the pressure cooker, cook for 
60 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 40 minutes at a pressure 
of 10 pounds. 

64. String Beans. — String beans of any variety should be 
canned as soon as they are gathered. If the beans to be canned are 
not of the stringless variety, prepare them by stringing them, follow- 
ing the directions given in Vegetables, Part 1. Stringless beans 
should be selected if possible, to avoid this part of the work. Cut 
out any rusted portions, cut each end from the beans, and, if pre- 
ferred, cut the beans into inch lengths. When thus prepared, blanch 
them for 10 to 15 minutes in live steam, cold-dip quickly, and pack 
tightly into the jars. Add a teaspoonful of salt to each jarful, fill the 
jars with boiling water, adjust the lids, and cook according to the 
method preferred. In the water bath, boil for 1^ to 2 hours; in 
the pressure cooker, cook for 60 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds 
or for 40 minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 33 



GROUP 3— ROOT AND TUBER VEGETABLES 

65. Only the small, young, and tender vegetables included in 
the third group lend themselves readily to canning. As a rule, such 
vegetables are allowed to mature, when they can be stored for winter 
use without canning them. However, many housewives like to can 
some of them for the variety they offer in the preparation and plan- 
ning of meals. 

66. Beets. — For canning, select small, young beets. Prepare 
them by cutting off the tops, which may be cooked as greens or 
canned separately, and all but about an inch of the stems and an 
inch of the roots. Scrub the trimmed beets well, and then blanch 
them in boiling water for 5 to 15 minutes or until the skins may be 
easily scraped off with a knife. Plunge them quickly into cold water 
and draw them out again. Then scrape off the skins and remove 
the roots and stems. The roots and stems are left on during the 
blanching and cold-dipping to prevent them from bleeding, or 
losing color. When thus prepared, pack- the beets into jars, add 
1 teaspoonful of salt to each jarful, and fill the jars with boiling 
water. Then adjust the jar tops and proceed to sterilize and cook 
the jars of beets according to the directions for any preferred 
method. In the water bath, cook them for 1^ hours ; in the pressure 
cooker, cook them for 1 hour at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 
40 minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

67. Carrots, Parsnips, and. Turnips. — Young parsnips and 
turnips are canned in exactly the same way as young carrots. There- 
fore, directions for the canning of carrots will suffice for all three of 
these vegetables. Prepare the carrots for canning by cutting off the 
tops and the roots and scrubbing them well. Blanch them for 10 to 
1 5 minutes in boiling water, so that the skins may be easily removed, 
and cold-dip them. Then remove the skins by scraping, pack the 
carrots into the jars, add 1 teaspoonful of salt to each jarful, and 
fill the jars with boiling water. Adjust the jar tops next, and pro- 
ceed to sterilize and cook the jars of carrots according to the method 
selected. In the water bath, cook for 1^ hours; in the pressure 
cooker, cook for 1 hour at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 40 minutes 
at a pressure of 10 pounds. 



34 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 



GROUP 4— SPECIAL, VEGETABLES 

68. Vegetables of the fourth group, which include those which 
cannot well be classified in the other groups, lend themselves readily 
to combinations, such as succotash, that make for variety in food. 
As is true of the other vegetables, special vegetables must be fresh 
and sound if good results in canning are expected. 

69. Lima and Other Shelled Beans. — For canning, only 
tender beans, whether Lima or some other variety, should be chosen. 
Prepare them for immediate canning by shelling them — that is, 
taking them from the pods — blanching them for 5 to 10 minutes in 
boiling water, and then cold-dipping them quickly. Pack the jars 
to within ^ inch of the top, add 1 teaspoonful of salt to each jar, 
and fill the jars with boiling water. Adjust the covers and pro- 
ceed to sterilize and cook them. In the water bath, boil for 2^ to 
3 hours ; in the pressure cooker, cook for 1^ hours at a pressure of 
5 pounds or for 1 hour at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

70. Green Corn. — For canning purposes, only corn that is 
young and milky should be selected. Get it ready for canning by 
husking it and removing the silk. Then blanch it for 3 to 5 minutes 
in boiling water and cold-dip it quickly. Cut the kernels half way 
down to the cob and scrape out what remains after cutting. For 
best results in this operation, hold the ear of corn so that the butt 
end is up ; then cut from the tip toward the butt, but scrape from the 
butt toward the tip. Next, pack the jars tightly with the corn, press- 
ing it into them with a wooden masher. Unless two persons can 
work together, however, cut only enough corn for one jar and fill 
and partly seal it before cutting more. As corn swells in the cook- 
ing, fill each jar to within ^ inch of the top. The milk in the corn 
should fill all spaces between the kernels, provided there are any, 
but if it does not, boiling water may be poured in. Add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt to each jarful of corn and adjust the jar lids. Boil for 
3 hours in the water bath ; but, if the pressure cooker is to be used, 
cook for IJ hours at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 1 hour at a pres- 
sure of 10 pounds. 

Corn on the cob may be canned in the same way if desired, but as 
only three small ears can be put into a quart jar, this would seem to 
be a waste of space and labor. If corn on the cob is to be canned, 
2-quart jars will prove more convenient than 1-quart jars. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 35 

71. Peas. — Peas for canning should be well formed and tender, 
and they should be canned as soon as possible after coming from the 
garden. Proceed by washing the pods and shelling the peas. Blanch 
the shelled peas for 5 to 10 minutes in live steam, and cold-dip them 
quickly. Pack the peas into the jars, having them come to within 
i inch from the top, add 1 teaspoonful of salt to each jarful, and fill 
the jars with boiling water. Then adjust the jar lids and proceed 
according to directions for the method selected. In the water 
bath, boil for 2 or 3 hours ; in the pressure cooker, cook for 1^ hours 
at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 1 hour at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

72. Pumpkin and Squasliw — The canning of pumpkin and 
squash is advisable when there is any possibility of their not keeping 
until they can "be used. Prepare either of these vegetables for can- 
ning by first peeling it and cutting the edible part into inch cubes. 
Blanch these cubes for 10 to 15 minutes in live steam and cold-dip 
them quickly. Pack the jars as full as possible, and add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt to each jar, but no water. After adjusting the jar lids, 
boil the jars of food for 1^ hours in the water bath, or cook them 
for 1 hour at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 40 minutes at a pressure 
of 10 pounds in the pressure cooker. When finished, the jars will 
be found to be only about half full, but the contents will keep 
perfectly. 

If desired, pumpkin or squash may first be cooked, as if preparing 
it for use and then put into the jars for processing. 

73. Succotasli. — Of course, succotash is not a vegetable, but 
the name of a food that results from combining corn and beans. 
These vegetables may be canned together to make for variety in the 
winter's food supply, or each may be canned separately and com- 
bined later. Clean the ears of corn in the manner previously 
directed ; then blanch them for 5 minutes and cold-dip them. Also, 
remove green Lima beans from the pods, blanch them for 10 minutes, 
and cold-dip them. Then cut and scrape the corn off the cobs and 
mix it with an equal quantity of the beans. Pack the mixture into 
the jars to within ^ inch of the top, add a teaspoonful of salt to each 
jarful, and fill the jars with boiling water. Adjust the jar tops and 
proceed according to the directions for the process to be employed. 
In the water bath, boil for 2 hours ; in the pressure cooker, cook for 
SO minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 35 minutes at a pressure 
of 10 pounds. 



36 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

74. Tomatoes. — ^As has been stated, tomatoes may be .■::anned 
successfully by the open-kettle method. If this method is to be 
employed, the first part of the preparation is exactly the same as for 
the cold-pack method, except that the jars, jar tops, and jar rubbers 
must be carefully sterilized. 

For canning, firm tomatoes should be selected if possible, as they 
will keep their shape better than those which are very ripe. If some 
are soft, they should be sorted out and canned for soup making or 
made into catsup. After washing the tomatoes, proceed to blanch 
them. The length of time required for blanching depends entirely 
on the condition of the tomatoes. They should be blanched for 
1 to 3 minutes, or just long enough to loosen the skin. After blanch- 
ing, dip them quickly into cold water and remove the skins. These, 
it will be found, may be removed easily and quickly. Pack the 
tomatoes thus prepared tightly into jars and fill them with boiling 
water, boiling tomato juice, or stewed tomatoes. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt to each jar. Then adjust the jar lids and proceed according 
to the directions given for the method selected. Boil for 22 minutes 
in the water bath; in the pressure cooker, cook for 15 minutes at a 
pressure of 5 pounds or for 10 minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

75. Tomatoes for Soup. — If there are soft tomatoes at hand 
or if tomatoes are canned by the open-kettle method, quantities of 
tomato juice ^Yill be available. Such material as this may be put 
through a sieve and boiled down for winter use in the making of 
soups, bisques, etc. It may be canned simply by pouring the boiling 
juice into sterilized jars and sealing them immediately, 

76. Tomatoes and Corn. — An excellent food combination 
results from combining stewed tomatoes with corn. Such a combi- 
nation may be canned safely by either the open-kettle or the cold- 
pack method. The acid of the tomatoes helps to keep the com, but 
the combination requires longer cooking than just plain tomatoes. 
Prepare each vegetable as for canning separately, but, if desired, cut 
the tomatoes into pieces. Mix the two foods in any desirable pro- 
portion and, for the cold-pack canning method, put the food into the 
jars. Add 1 teaspoonful of salt to each jarful, but no water. Then 
adjust the jar lids, and proceed to sterilize and cook the jars of food. 
In the water bath, cook them 1 J hours ; in the pressure cooker, cook 
them for 50 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 35 minutes at 
a pressure of 10 pounds. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 37 



DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING FRUITS 

77. The chief difference between the canning of fruits and the 
canning of vegetables is that sugar in the form of sirup, instead of 
salt water, is used for the liquid. Fruits may be canned without 
sugar if desired, but nothing is gained by so doing, for sugar will 
have to be added later. Because of the sugar used in canning and 
the acid contained in the fruit, canned fruit has better keeping quali- 
ties than canned vegetables. In fact, it is much more likely to keep 
well even though it does not receive such careful attention as vege- 
tables. It is for this reason that canned fruit does not require so 
much time for sterilization as vegetables do. Still it should not be 
inferred that care is not necessary in the canning of fruits. Indeed, 
the more care that is taken, the better are the results likely to be. 

78. Sirups for Canning. — Before the canning of fruits can 
be undertaken, it is necessary to possess a knowledge of the sirups 
that are needed. Such sirups consist simply of sugar dissolved in 
boiling water. The quantity of sugar and water required for a 
sirup depends on the acidity of the fruit and the purpose for which 
it is to be used. Plain canned fruits that are to be used for sauces, 
etc. require less sugar proportionately than those which are pre- 
served, and fruit canned for pie making may have less than either. 
Thus, fruits of the same kind may be canned with sirups of different 
proportions. To a great extent, the quantity of sugar to use with 
fruit may be regulated by the taste, but it will be readily seen that 
such fruits as sour cherries and plums will require more sugar to 
make them palatable than pears and blueberries. It will be well to 
note, though, that the sugar does not penetrate the fruit unless the 
two are cooked together. 

79. In order to make sirup for canning, place the desired quan- 
tities of sugar and water in a kettle and proceed to heat them. Stir 
the liquid while it is heating, in order to assist in dissolving the 
sugar. When it has begun to boil rapidly, remove the sirup from 
the fire and use it at once. Do not continue boiling. 

In preparing such sirups, it will be well to note that the greater 
the proportion of sugar to water or the longer the sugar and water 
are allowed to boil, the denser, or heavier, will the sirup become. 
It is this density of sirup that regulates its use for the different kinds 
of fruit and determines its nature. Thus, a sirup in which the pro- 



38 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



portion of sugar to water is so large as to make the sirup thick is 
known as a heavy sirup; one in which the proportion of water to 
sugar is so large as to make the sirup thin is called a light sirup; and 
one in which the proportion of sugar and water is such as to pro- 
duce a sirup that is neither thick nor thin, but stands between the 
two extremes, is called a medium sirup. 

80. The density of sirup is also affected by the amount and 
rapidity of evaporation that takes place in boiling, and these, in turn, 

TABLE I 

SIRUPS FOR CANNING FRUITS 



Sirup 
No. 


Proportions 


Degrees 

With 
Hydrom- 
eter 




Sugar 
Cups 


Water 
Cups 


Uses 


1 
2 
3 

4 
5 
6 


2 

2 
2 

2 
2 
2 


4 
3 
2 

1 


28 
30 
40 

48 
54 
68 


Open-kettle canning, or pie 
fruit canned by any method. 

Open-kettle canning, or pie 
fruit canned by any method. 

Open-kettle canning, or sweet 
fruits canned by cold-pack 
methods. 

Sweet fruits canned by cold- 
pack methods. 

Sour fruits canned by cold- 
pack methods. 

Very rich fruits canned by 
cold-pack methods ; pre- 
serves canned by open-kettle 
method. 



depend on the amount of surface that is exposed. For instance, if 
a sirup is cooked in a large, flat kettle, the evaporation will be 
greater and more rapid than if it is cooked in a small, deep vessel. 
Atmospheric pressure affects the rapidity of evaporation, too. In a 
high altitude, evaporation takes place more slowly than at sea level, 
because the boiling point is lower. Thus, in the making of sirups 
for canning, the first point to be determined is whether the sirup 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 39 

desired should be light, medium, or heavy, and in its preparation the 
points mentioned must receive consideration. 

81. For determining the density of sirup, a sirup gauge, or 
hydrometer, will be found useful. This device consists of a grad- 
uated glass tube attached to a bulb that is weighted with mercury. 
The graduations, or marks, on the tube, 'or top part, of the hydrom- 
eter serve to indicate the percentage of solid matter dissolved in a 
solution and register from to 50 degrees. To use such a gauge, 
partly fill a glass cylinder — an ordinary drinking glass will do — with 
the sirup and place the hydrometer in it. The greater the amount 
of solid matter dissolved in the sirup, the higher will the hydrometer 
float. Then read the number of degrees registered by observing the 
mark that is level with the surface of the sirup. 

The number of degrees that the hydrometer should register for 
sirups of different densities — that is, for sirups consisting of differ- 
ent proportions of sugar and water — are given in Table I. This 
table, in addition, gives the uses that should be made of such sirups, 
and each one is numbered so that it may be referred to readily later 
in the recipes for canning fruits. 

83. Classification of Fruits. — For the sake of convenience 
in canning, fruits, too, are here divided into groups. These groups, 
three in number, together with the fruits included in each, are : 

1. Soft Fruits, which are subdivided into three kinds, namely, 
sweet, sour, and very sour. The sweet soft fruits include black- 
berries, blueberries or huckleberries, sweet cherries, elderberries, 
ripe gooseberries, mulberries, and black and red raspberries ; the sour 
soft fruits, apricots, currants, grapes, peaches, and strawberries ; and 
the very sour soft fruits, sour cherries, cranberries, green goose- 
berries, plums, and rhubarb. 

2. Hard Fruits, which include apples, quinces, and pears. 

3. Special Fruits, which include ripe figs, kumquats, loquats, 
nectarines, persimmons, and pineapples. 

The advantage of this classification, as in the case of the vegetable 
classification, is that, as a rule, all fruits belonging to a group or a 
subdivision of a group may be canned in the same way and with 
sirup of practically the same density. 

83. Canning Methods for Fruits. — ^The canning of fruits 
may be done by the several methods previously discussed, but the 
cold-pack and open-kettle methods seem to meet with most favor. 



40 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

On account of the sirup used in canning fruit and the acid in the 
fruit, the open-kettle method is usually fairly successful, whereas, 
in the canning of vegetables, with the exception of tomatoes, it is 
not so reliable. The housewife, by experiment, can determine which 
method will suit her needs best, but by no means should methods 
be mixed. If a certain method is decided on, it should be adhered 
to in every detail and carried through without any substitution. For 
all methods, as has been mentioned, the fruit should be selected when 
it is fresh and in good condition, as such fruit has less chance to 
spoil than fruit that is overripe or has decayed spots. After it is 
graded for size and condition, the fruit should be washed, stemmed, 
hulled, seeded, peeled, or halved, quartered, or sliced, depending on 
the kind. Then the work may be proceeded with according to the 
canning method that is to be followed. 

84. If fruits are to be caimed by the open-kettle method, certain 
precautions must be observed in order to insure success. The sterili- 
zation of the product cannot be perfect in this method no matter 
how carefully the canning is done; and this means that the sugar 
and the fruit acids must be greatly relied on to assist in preserva- 
tion. Still, the jars, jar covers, jar rubbers, and any utensils used 
for filling the jars must be sterilized and kept in boiling water imtil 
the fruit is ready to be canned. Another thing to guard against is 
the discoloring of the fruit. Any fruit that is likely to become dis- 
colored after it is prepared for canning should be kept in salt water 
until it is ready to be cooked. A solution consisting of 1 teaspoonf ul 
of salt to each quart of water will answer for this purpose. 

After the fruit has been prepared and while the containers, etc. are 
being sterilized, it is necessary to prepare the sirup that is to be 
used. For the sweet fruits of Group 1, No. 1 or 2 sirup should be 
made; for the sour fruits of this group. No. 2 or 3 sirup; and for 
the very sour fruits. No. 4 or 5 sirup. The hard fruits may be 
canned by this method with No. 1, 2, or 3 sirup, while the special 
fruits require No. 4 or 5 sirup. If the fruit is to be canned for pie, 
it will be advisable to use thin sirup and then use more sweetening 
when pies are made. 

When the sirup is made by mixing the sugar and water and bring- 
ing it to a boil, the prepared fruit should be dropped into it and 
cooked. The fruit should be cooked in the sirup until it may be 
easily pierced with a fork or until it is soft. Berries have to be 



§22 CANNING AND DRYING 41 

cooked only a few minutes, while the hard fruits may require from 
10 to 15 minutes. The jars should be placed upright in a pan of hot 
water while the boiling fruit from the kettle is poured into them, and 
as each jar is filled the rubber should be put in place and the cover 
adjusted and secured. It is important to close one jar before filling 
another, because the longer a jar remains open the more bacteria 
will be permitted to enter. Even by working as rapidly as possible 
and taking the greatest precaution, a certain number of bacteria are 
bound to enter in this method of canning. After the jars are filled 
and sealed, they should be placed upside down or on the side to cool 
and test for leaks. 

85. If the cold-pack method is employed in canning fruit, it is 
possible to obtain a sterilized product that is dependent for preser- 
vation on neither the sirup used nor the acid of the fruit. In this 
method, the jars, jar tops, covers, and utensils for handling 
the fruit do not have to be sterilized beforehand. They may simply 
be washed clean and kept hot in clean water until they are needed. 
After the fruits are prepared, some are blanched or scalded and 
cold-dipped, while others are not. They are then packed into jars 
and boiling sirup is poured over them. Then the rubbers are 
adjusted, the covers placed on, but not made tight, and the jars are 
placed under water in the water bath or on the racks in the pressure 
cooker, which should contain a small amount of water, as has been 
explained. After cooking the required length of time, the jars of 
fruit are removed from the cooking utensil, sealed, and allowed 
to cool. 

The sirup used in the cold-pack canning method may be heavier 
in each case than that mentioned for the open-kettle method, because 
there is no evaporation, as is the case where fruits are boiled in the 
sirup before they are placed in the cans, but less will be required if 
the packing is well done. 



GROUP 1— SOFT FRUITS 

86. Sweet Soft Fruits. — The sweet fruits included in Group 1 
— blackberries, huckleberries, elderberries, ripe gooseberries, mulber- 
ries, raspberries, and sweet cherries — may be canned in exactly the 
same way, so that the same general directions will apply to all. Pre 
pare the diflferent kinds of berries, which should be as fresh as possi- 
ble, by looking them over carefully and removing the poor ones, and 

WT— C5— « 



42 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

then washing them. To wash them, pour them into a colander and 
dip it up and down in a large pan of clean, cold water. The less 
handling such fruits receive, the more perfect will they remain for 
canning. Prepare sweet cherries, which should be procured with 
the stems on if possible, by first washing them and then stemming 
them. They may be pitted, or seeded, or they may be left whole, 
depending on personal preference. Cherries that are not pitted will 
keep their shape and have a good appearance, but they are not so 
convenient for eating as those which have been pitted. 

87. After the fruit has been prepared in the manner just 
explained, pack it closely into the hot, clean jars, using a spoon for 
this purpose and turning each jar as the fruit is poured into it. 
Press the berries or the cherries down carefully, so that 2 quarts of 
them will fill a 1-quart jar. Then proceed to make the sirup. As 
these fruits are the sweetest, they require less sugar than any other. 
If such fruit after it is canned is to be used for pie making, sirup No. 1 
or 2 will be suitable, but if it is to be used for sauce. No. 3 sirup 
may be used. When the mixed sugar and water is boiling rapidly, 
pour it over the fruit packed into the jars. Then place the rubbers, 
adjust the jar tops, and proceed to sterilize and cook the cans of 
fruit. Boil these in the water bath for 15 minutes, or cook them in 
the pressure cooker for 8 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 
4 minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

88. Sour Soft Fruits. — Of the sour fruits, stra^vberries, 
grapes, and currants require about the same quantity of sugar, 
that contained in sirup No. 3, 4, or 5 usually being sufficient. Other- 
wise, the canning process, including the length of time for process- 
ing, does not differ materially from that just given for sweet soft 
fruits. 

In the case of strawberries, those which are of medium size and 
rather dark in color are best for canning ; in fact, very large, light- 
colored strawberries will shrink more than any other kind. The 
berries are washed in the same way as other berries, but they should 
not be allowed to stand in water for any length of time, because this 
will tend to make them soft and mushy. Strawberries must be 
stemmed after they are washed, and for this purpose a strawberry 
huller should be utilized. Such a device, which is shown in Fig. 1, 
permits the stems to be removed without crushing the berries and 
soiling the fingers. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 43 

In preparing currants for canning, the procedure is the same as 
for the fruits already mentioned; and the same thing is true of 
grapes that are not to be seeded. If the seeds are to be removed, 
however, the procedure up to getting the cans of fruit ready for 
processing is diflferent, as is here pointed out. After washing the 
grapes, squeeze the pulp from the skins and then cook it in a kettle 
for a sufficient length of time to make it soft. Remove the seeds 
by forcing the pulp through a sieve. Then add as much sugar as 
would be used for making the required sirup, and cook until the 
sugar is dissolved. With this done, add the sweetened, seedless pulp 
to the grape skins and fill the jars with this mixture. Then continue 
the canning process as for the other fruits of this group. 

89. The procedure in canning apricots and peaches, the other 
two sour soft fruits, differs slightly from that required for straw- 
berries, grapes, and currants. So that the skins of both of these 
fruits may be easily removed, they must be scalded, which is an 
operation that corresponds to blanching in vegetable canning. 

For canning purposes, only firm, fresh apricots and peaches that 
are not overripe should be selected. Also, in the case of peaches, 
care should be taken to see that they are of the freestone variety, as 
such peaches may be split easily. Clingstone peaches should not be 
chosen unless the fruit is to be canned whole or unless an implement 
for removing the seeds, or stones like that shown in Fig. 2, is at hand. 
Proceed with the canning of either apricots or peaches by first scald- 
ing them. To do this, put the fruit in boiling water for 1 to 3 
minutes, depending on its ripeness. Next, cold-dip it quickly, 
remove the skins, and, if desired, cut each one in half and remove 
the seed, or stone. When thus prepared, pack the fruit into hot 
jars as tightly as possible, pour sirup No. 3, 4, or 5 over them, filling 
each jar, adjust the rubber and jar top, and proceed as directed for 
the cold-pack method. In the water bath, boil the cans of fruit for 
15 minutes; in the pressure cooker, cook them for 10 minutes at a 
5-pound pressure or for 6 minutes at a 10-pound pressure. 

90. Very Sour Soft Fruits .-^-Some of the fruits of the third 
subdivision of Group 1, namely, sour cherries, cranberries, 
and g-reen gooseberries, may be prepared and canned in the same 
way as those included in the first subdivision. The cherries may be 
left whole or they may be seeded, as preferred, and all the fruit must, 
of course, be fresh. For these very sour fruits, sirups Nos. 4, 5, 



U CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

and 6 are required, and the processing time is 15 minutes in the 
water bath and 10 minutes at a 5-pound pressure or 5 minutes at a 
10-pound pressure in the pressure cooker. 

91. Plums for canning should be fresh and firm, but not over- 
ripe. This fruit may be canned with the skins on, but some varieties 
permit the skins to be removed after scalding, and this may be done 
if desired. Prepare the plums for canning by washing them, and, 
if the skins are to be left on, by piercing each one in several places 
with a fork to prevent the skins from cracking. Then scald the 
plums for about 1^ minutes, cold-dip them quickly, and pack them 
closely into the hot jars. Pour sirup No. 4, 5, or 6 over the fruit 
in the jars, using sirup No. 6 if they are very sour, adjust the 
rubbers and the covers, and proceed according to the canning method 
selected. In the water bath, cook for 15 minutes; in the pressure 
cooker, cook for 10 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 6 
minutes at a pressure of 10 pounds. 

92. Rhubarb for canning should be selected when it is most 
tender. The variety having red stems is the most attractive 
after it is canned. Only the heavy stems, which should be cut from 
the leaves, may be canned. Cut these stems into inch lengths, blanch 
them 1 to 3 minutes in boiling water, and cold-dip them quickly. 
Then pack these pieces into the jars. If the rhubarb is being canned 
for sauce, fill each jar with sirup No. 5 or 6 ; if it is being canned 
for pie, use sirup No. 1, 2, or 3. Next, adjust the rubbers and 
covers and proceed with the processing. In the water bath, cook 
for 15 minutes ; in the pressure cooker, cook for 10 minutes at a 
S-pound pressure or for 6 minutes at a 10-pound pressure. 



GROUP 2— HARD FRUITS 

93. Apples. — The canning of apples should be done when there 
is a large supply of summer apples that cannot be stored for winter 
use or used at once. Canning is also a good means of utilizing wind- 
fall apples. This fruit may be canned in quarters for sauce, in 
slices for pie, or in any other desirable shape or condition. 

After apples for canning are selected, wash them, scald, or blanch, 
them for 1 to 5 minutes in boiling water, and cold-dip them quickly. 
Next, peel and core them, and cut each one into pieces of any 
desirable size. As these pieces are cut, drop them into salt water — 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 45 

1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water — to prevent them from 
discoloring. Then pack the fruit into the jars and fill the jars with 
boiling sirup. If the apples are intended for pie, use sirup No. 1, 2, 
or 3 ; if they are for sauce, use sirup No. 3, 4, or 5. When the jars 
are filled, adjust the rubbers and covers and- proceed with the 
processing. If the pieces are large, cook them in the water bath for 
20 minutes; if they are medium in size, cook them for 15 minutes; 
and if they are in the form of slices, cook them for 10 minutes. If 
they are to be processed in the pressure cooker, cook them for 
8 to 12 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 6 to 8 minutes at a 
pressure of 10 pounds. 

If the apples to be canned are first baked or made into a sauce, 
simply pack them into jars and process them for a few minutes. 

94. Quinces. — Quinces may be canned alone, but they may be 
combined with apples to good advantage. If canned alone, they 
may require a heavier sirup than if apples are used -with them. 
Prepare the quinces in the same way as apples. If apples are to be 
canned with them, cut the pieces of apples twice the size of the 
pieces of quinces. This should be done because more time is 
required for cooking the quinces soft. After packing the jars and 
pouring in the sirup, proceed with the processing. If quinces alone 
are in the jars, cook them in the water bath for 30 minutes ; but if 
quinces and apples are combined, cook them for 20 minutes. In 
the pressure cooker, cook the jars of fruit for 12 to 15 minutes at a 
5-pound pressure or for 10 to 12 minutes at a 10-pound pressure. 

95. Pears. — Pears for canning should be firm, but not hard. 
After sorting and washing them, blanch them for 1 to 3 minutes and 
cold-dip them quickly. Then pare, halve, and core them. Pack 
them immediately into the jars and pour sirup No. 3 or 4 over them. 
Next, adjust the rubbers and covers and proceed with the process- 
ing. In the water bath, cook them for 20 minutes ; in the pressure 
cooker, cook them for 8 minutes at a 5-pound pressure or 6 minutes 
at a 10-pound pressure. 

GROUP 3— SPECIAIi FRUITS 

96. Figs. — Although figs are not a common fruit, there are 
parts of this country, particularly on the western coast, in which they 
are abundant. For canning, ripe figs should be selected. To pre- 
pare them, blanch them for 2 minutes in boiling water and cold-dip 



46 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

them. Then pack them into the jars and fill the jars by pouring 
sirup No. 4, 5, or 6 over the figs. Proceed with the remainder of 
the process as in canning peaches. 

97. Kumquats and Loquats. — Kumquats and loquats are 
small acid fruits resembling oranges in color and plums in size and 
shape. Such fruits are not very common, but they may be obtained 
in some markets. To can either of these fruits, wash them, 
blanch for 5 minutes, cold-dip, pack into jars, and fill the jars 
with sirup No. 5 or 6. In the water bath, cook them for 15 minutes. 
In the pressure cooker, cook them for 10 minutes at a 5-pound pres- 
sure or for 5 minutes at a 10-pound pressure. 

98. Nectarines.1 — Nectarines are a smooth-skinned variety of 
peach. Ripe nectarines may be canned in the same way as peaches, 
but they do not require so much sugar, sirup No. 2 or 3 usually being 
about right. 

99. Persimmons. — Persimmons are a seedy, plum-like fruit 
common to the southern and southwestern parts of the United 
States. This fruit is very astringent when unripe, but is sweet and 
delicious when ripe or touched by frost. Well-frosted persimmons 
should be selected for canning. Blanch them so that the skin may 
be removed easily and cold-dip them quickly. Then peel them and 
pack them into hot jars. Fill the jars with sirup No. 6 and process 
them in the same way as peaches. 

100. Pineapples. — Pineapples are better known than any of 
the other special fruits. For canning, those ripe enough to permit 
the center leaves to pull out easily should be selected; also, they 
should be free from soft or rotten spots, which are most likely to 
appear first near the bottom. Pineapples are graded in size by the 
number that may be packed in a case. These sizes are 24, 30, 36, 
and 42, size 24 being the largest and size 42 the smallest. Sizes 30 
and 36 are best for canning. 

In canning pineapples, first place each in boiling water for 10 
minutes and dip it quickly into cold water. Then prepare it for 
the cans. This may be done by removing the peeling with a sharp 
knife, digging out the eyes, and then slicing or dicing; by slicing 
first and then peeling and taking out the eyes ; or by peeling, taking 
out the eyes, and then shredding it with the aid of a fork. When 
it is prepared, pack the fruit into the jars, fill each jar with sirup 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 47 

No. 4 or 5, adjust the rubbers and covers, and proceed to process 
it. In the water bath, cook for 30 minutes ; in the pressure cooker, 
cook for 12 minutes at a pressure of 5 pounds or for 10 minutes at 
a pressure of 10 pounds. 

CANNING MEAT AND FISH 

101. Both fish and meat, including that from fowl and game, 
may be canned at times that seem convenient and then used when an 
emergency arises or at a time when the same food will cost more to 
prepare. Fowl, game, and fish may be canned to special advantage 
during the season when each is plentiful. The best process for can- 
ning such foods is the one-period cold-pack method. 

102. Meat. — In canning meat, whether from domestic animals, 
fowl, or game, first cut it into pieces of a size that would be suitable 
for serving at the table. The meat may be left raw or it may be 
prepared by any desirable cooking process, such as frying, f ricassee- 
ing, braizing, etc. Careful attention must be given to the drawing 
of fowl that is to be canned, because the entire alimentary tract 
should be removed without being broken. The giblets should not 
be canned with the rest of the meat, as they will not keep so well. 
Whether the meat is to be canned raw or cooked, pack the jars as 
tightly as possible. If the meat is raw, add 1 teaspoonful of salt 
to each quart of food and fill the jars three-fourths full with boiling 
water. In case the jar is filled to the top, fat will rise and injure 
the rubber. If the meat is cooked, add any liquid that may have 
resulted from the cooking, as well as boiling water, provided more 
liquid is needed. Then, as in canning vegetables and fruit, adjust 
the rubbers and covers and proceed with the processing. In 
the case of raw meat, sterilize for 3 hours in the water bath, or for 
1-J hours at a 10-pound pressure in the pressure cooker. In the case 
of cooked meat, sterilize for 1^ hours in the water bath, or for 
30 minutes at a 10-pound pressure in the pressure cooker. 

103. Pish. — To prepare fish for canning, first clean it by scaling 
it and removing the entrails. Wrap the cleaned fish in cheesecloth 
and steam for 15 minutes. After steaming, remove the bones, which 
will come out easily, and cut the fish into pieces. Pack the pieces 
into the jars, and to each quart of the food add 1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Next, fill each jar three-fourths full with boiling water and continue 
with the canning in the manner directed for meat. 



48 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 



STORING AND SERVING CANNED FOODS 

104. After jars of canned food have been cooled and tested for 
leaks, carefully wiped with a damp cloth, and then wrapped and 
labeled, they are ready to be placed in storage. Such food should 
be stored in an orderly manner on shelves that may be covered to 
keep off dust, or in a large cupboard provided with doors that may 
be closed. The temperature of the room in which the canned foods 
are kept is of no great importance, but, in homes provided with 
cellars, the cellar is the logical place in which to store them. 

Canned foods, no matter how well the canning may have been 
done, undergo gradual deterioration. Therefore, those kept for 
more than a year, will not be so good as those used during the first 
year after canning. If canned foods from a previous year are at 
hand when new cans are ready to be stored, the old ones should be 
placed to the front of the shelves and the new ones to the back, so 
that the old ones will be used up first. 

105. Canned foods take the place of raw foods, and whether 
they should be cooked or not depends on the kind. In the case of 
vegetables, most of them may be made ready to serve simply by heat- 
ing them, although they may be used in the preparation of many 
dishes, as is evident from the recipes throughout the lessons. In the 
case of fruits, some may be served just as they come from the can ; 
however, there are many ways of using canned fruits in the making 
of desserts, as is pointed out in Fruit and Fruit Desserts. In the 
case of meats and fish, the food, if cooked before canning, may be 
prepared for serving simply by heating it; whereas, if it is canned 
raw, some cookery method for meat will have to be applied. 

When foods are boiled, one reason for a change in taste is that 
oxygen is driven off by the boiling. Therefore, to improve the taste 
of canned foods that are to be served without any further prepara- 
tion, it is advisable, when a jar is opened, to pour the contents into 
an open dish and thus expose it to the air. 

In opening jars of canned fruit, care must be taken not to crack 
or nick either the top of the jar or its cover. The cover of any kind 
of jar will come oE easily if a little air is admitted. Insert a knife 
blade between the cover and jar rubber of a glass-covered jar, but 
do not use a knife to loosen a metal top, as it may bend the edge 
in places. Hot water poured over the jar will assist in opening it. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 49 



SCORING CANNED FOODS 

106. In order that the housewife may judge the quality of her 
own canned products according to standards that have been set by 
canning authorities, a score card, together with an explanation of the 
terms and the procedure, is here given. The beginner in canning will 
do well to score her own foods, so that any fault that may be found 
can be corrected when similar foods are canned at another time. 
In fact, the chief purpose of scoring any product is to learn of faults 
that may be corrected. The scoring should be done as impartially 
as if a disinterested person were doing it, and if the cause of any 
trouble is not readily apparent, pains should be taken to find it out. 

Score Card Per Cent. 

General appearance 10 

Method of sealing 10 

Proportion of food to liquid 10 

Flavor 35 

Texture of food 20 

Color IS 

Total 100 

107. As a rule, scoring, or judging, is done at the time the 
canned food is to be opened and used. 

The general appearance is judged before the jar is opened. If a 
jar of food is well and symmetrically packed and has clear liquid 
and a good color, it should receive a peirfect score of 10. 

The method of sealing must also be judged before the can is 
opened. A properly filled jar with the rubber and cover in good 
condition and tightly sealed should receive a perfect score of 10. 

The proportion of food to liquid should score 10. The jars should 
be as full of uncrushed food as possible, and the liquid that has 
been added should fill all crevices to the very edge of the jar. 

The flavor is judged after the can is opened, and if it is perfect, 
it is entitled to a score of 35. The flavor of canned fruit is injured 
by any kind of spoiling, such as molding, fermentation, etc. Fruits 
canned in good condition should retain the characteristic flavor of 
the fresh fruits; also, they should contain sufficient sugar to be 
agreeably sweet, but no more. Canned vegetables should retain 
their characteristic flavors, with no sour, musty, nor disagreeable 
taste, and be slightly salty. Canned meats and fish should also 
possess their characteristic flavors. 



50 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

The texture of food is entitled to a score of 20 if it is perfect. 
The canned food should be whole ; that is, in the original pieces as 
they were put into the can. Underripe fruit or insufficiently cooked 
fruit or vegetables do not have the proper texture ; neither do over- 
ripe or uncooked foods. 

The color of canned food merits a score of 15 if it is right. 
Fruits and vegetables should have retained their natural color. Fad- 
ing after canning may be prevented by wrapping the cans, as has 
been explained. 

DRYING 



PRINCIPLES OF DRYING 

108. Drying consists in removing the moisture contained in 
foods by evaporation and thus rendering them less susceptible to 
the attacks of undesirable bacteria. Dried foods, as foods so treated 
are called, will not replace fresh or canned foods. However, they 
are valuable in many cases and possess some advantages over such ' 
foods. For example, the weight of dried foods is very greatly 
reduced, the storage space required by them is much less, and they 
are easy to keep without spoiling and easy to transport. Likewise, 
the containers for such foods are less costly than those required for 
canned foods and they are easily procured, since paper boxes or 
paper bags are satisfactory. In fact, the housewife, by taking care 
of the bags and boxes that come into the home, can easily provide 
all the containers she will possibly need at practically no cost. 

109. The water in food that is to be dried may be evaporated 
by applying heat, by bringing the food in contact with moving air, 
or by subjecting it to a combination of both of these methods. The 
heat for drying may be obtained from the sun, as in the sun-drying 
method, or from the stove, as in the stove-drying method, while 
moving air for evaporating moisture may be obtained from an elec- 
tric fan, as in the electric-fan drying method. 

In the application of any of these drying methods, however, it is 
important to note that the more surface of food there is exposed, 
the more quickly will evaporation take place. Drying should there- 
fore be done on devices constructed in such a way that air may pass 
up through food, as well as across its surface. In drying foods, the 



§22 



CANNING AND DRYING 



51 



racks should be turned frequently, so that all parts will be exposed 
equally to the heat or the currents of air. Also, the food must be 
turned over often, in order that all parts will dry evenly. 

110. Any fruit or vegetable may be dried if the method is prop- 
erly applied, but there is usually more or less change in both the 
flavor and the color of the dried food. The more rapidly the drying 
can be done, the more natural will the color and flavor remain; 
whereas, the longer the process is continued, the greater will be 
this change. 

Foods should be dried when they are in such quantity that they 
cannot be used to advantage in the raw state, when there is no 
market for them, when the owner cannot afford to give them away, 
and when home canning ceases to be practical and profitable. In 
other words, if it is not practical to save foods in another way, they 
should be dried. 



DRYING METHODS 

111. Devices for Drying. — Many manufactured devices may 
be had for the drying of foods. Some are made so that they may 
be placed on top of a stove, like that shown in Fig. 23. This device 




Fig. 23 

is in the form of a metal box. It has a tray for holding the food 
to be dried, and underneath this is a space for holding water. Water 
is poured into this space through a funnel in one corner, and heat 
for drying is supplied by heating the water. Other devices are 
made so that they may be suspended over a stove, put into a stove 
oven, or used out of doors. Still others have a heating device placed 
inside of them. It is possible, however, to make drying devices in 
the home that will answer the purpose just as well as the devices 
that may be bought. 



52 



CANNING AND DRYING 



§22 



As has been stated, drying devices should be so made that the air 
may pass up through the food and across its surface. A pan, a 
platter, or a solid board, as will be readily seen, is not so good for 
drying as a wooden frame of convenient size that has small slats 
or fine, rustless-wire netting, or screening, attached to the bottom. 
Such a device may be covered with cheesecloth to keep out dirt. If 
it is to be used in the oven or set in the sun, a nail driven part way 
into each corner will provide feet and thus keep it from resting on 
the oven floor or any other flat surface. 

For suspending food that is to be dried over a stove, a rack like 
that shown in Fig. 24 may be easily made in the home. As will be 

observed, it consists of three 
trays fastened together. These 
trays are suspended by four 
strings tied to another string that 
runs over small pulleys. The 
pulleys are attached to a wood- 
en brace that is secured to the 
kitchen wall. The pulleys and 
string permit the rack to be 
raised or lowered, so that the 
food may be easily put into and 
taken out of the trays. 

112. Sun-Drying 
Method. — If food is to be dried 
in the sun, spread it in a single 
layer on each tray, cover the 
trays so that no dirt will fall into 
them, and set them out of doors 
so that the sun's rays will strike them. Glass covers will help to 
increase the heat from the sun. As the sun changes, change the posi- 
tion of the trays or turn them. Food that is being dried outdoors 
should be brought into the house when the sun goes down and put 
out again the following morning. This procedure should be kept up 
until the food is so dry as to be leathery; that is, in a condition that 
will permit of bending without cracking. 

113. Stove-Drying Method. — If food is to be dried by the 
stove-drying method, it may be placed in the oven, on top of the 
stove, or suspended above the stove. 




Fig. 24 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 53 

114. If the oven is to be used, a device that fits the oven should 
be employed. Spread the food on the trays in single layers, and 
put the device into the oven. The temperature of the oven demands 
attention in this method. Only a very moderate heat may be applied 
at first, 110 degrees Fahrenheit being considered the ideal temper- 
ature for beginning. As it is difficult to hold an oven at such a low 
temperature if a fire is burning, the oven door' should be left open 
to admit air. The temperature of the oven of a coal stove in which 
the fire is banked or is being allowed to go out is usually ideal for 
drying foods. If desired, the heat of an oven may be gradually 
increased to about 180 degrees as the food dries ; but the application 
of greater heat is liable to scorch the food and injure its flavor. 
The food must be turned often to permit it to dry evenly. 

115. If food is to be dried on top of the stove, the device shown 
in Fig. 23 will prove satisfactory. The same arrangement may be 
improvised by placing a metal tray over a large flat vessel of water. 
Place the food to be dried in a single layer on the tray over the 
water. Let the water boil and keep it boiling, and turn the food 
frequently so that the heat will be applied to all sides. Continue 
this process until the food is leathery, when it may be stored. 

116. If food is to be dried in a rack suspended above the stove, 
a rack like that shown in Fig. 24 should be used. Cover the trays in 
the rack with a single layer of food, and dry it to the leathery stage, 
when it may be removed and stored. In using this device, only a 
coal or a wood stove is practical. When the heat coming from the 
stove is not great, the rack may be allowed to come close to it, and 
when the heat is intense the rack may be drawn up. Regulating the 
distance of the rack from the stove will tend to keep the food at a 
uniform temperature and allow it to dry evenly, especially when 
the food is turned from time to time. 

117. EIlectrlc-Fan Drying Method.' — If a house is wired 
for electricity, drying foods by means of the air-currents generated 
by a moving electric fan is a simple matter. Use devices like those 
required for the sun- and oven-drying methods. Spread the foods 
to be dried on the trays in a single thin layer, and arrange them so 
that the air from the electric fan will blow over them. Turn the 
trays as the food dries, so that one part does not dry sooner than 
another; also, turn the food frequently so as to expose all parts 



54 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

alike. If the fan can be placed so as to blow across a stove and thus 
biOw heated air on the food, it will dry more quickly. A very warm 
kitchen is an excellent place in which to do the work with an electric 
fan, as the combination of air and heat does the work more rapidW 
than either one used alone. 

118. Combination Drying Methods. — ^A combination of 
any of the drying methods mentioned may be used effectively. Dry- 
ing may be started in the sun and completed in the oven, or it may 
be started with an electric fan and completed in the sun or the oven. 
Any means whereby the time required for drying may be shortened 
is advantageous. 

DIRECTIONS FOR DRYING VEGETABLES 
AND FRUITS 

119. Preparation of Foods for Drying. — The correct 
preparation of the foods before drying is very important. The 
thinner and smaller the pieces to be dried are cut, the more quickly 
may the process be completed. Any skins or hulls that would pre- 
vent the rapid evaporation of moisture from the food must- be 
removed or broken, and every raw food that is to be dried must first 
be immersed in salt water made in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful 
of salt to each quart of water, as this prevents discoloring to a great 
extent. 

120. String Beans. — Beans for drying should be selected 
while they are young and tender. Wash them and remove the 
strings if this is necessary. Cut them in half, lengthwise, with a 
sharp knife. Drop them into salt water, remove, and spread on the 
drying trays. Dry by any method selected. 

121. Corn. — Corn that is to be dried should be at the dough 
stage ; younger corn contains too much water for good results. Pre- 
pare the corn by husking it and removing the silk. Then blanch 
it in boiling water for 5 minutes, after which cut off the grains close 
to the cob with a sharp knife. Spread these on the drying trays and 
proceed according to the method desired. 

122. Greens. — ^Wash the greens thoroughly. Cu* across the 
leaves several times. Drop them into salt water, remove, and spread 
on the drying trays. Dry by any method selected. 



§ 22 CANNING AND DRYING 55 

123. Tuber and Root Vegetables. — Irish potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, carrots, parsnips, and even onions may be successfully 
dried. First peel or scrape them. Then slice or cut them into small 
pieces. Drop them into salt water, remove from the water, and 
spread them on the drying trays. Dry them by the method selected. 

124. Small Fruits. — Berries, cherries, and other small fruits 
may be dried, but since they contain considerable water, the drying 
is not accomplished very rapidly. Ripe, firm fruit should be selected 
and cleaned. Cherries should have the seeds, or pits, removed. Such 
fruits must be dried as quickly as possible, or they will spoil in the 
process. 

125. Apples, Quinces, and Pears. — In order to dry apples, 
quinces, and pears, wash, peel, core, and cut the fruit into eighths. 
Put the peeled fruit into the salt water and keep it there until all 
are peeled and cut and ready to dry. Then spread the cut pieces in 
a thin layer on the drying trays and proceed according to the method 
desired. 

126. Peaches and Apricots. — Peaches and apricots are most 
easily dried with the skin on. Wash them thoroughly and, in the 
case of peaches, rub the fuzz off the skins. Cut the fruit into halves, 
remove the seeds, or stones, and drop the halves into salt water and 
keep them there until they are ready to be placed on the drying trays. 
Dry by any process desired. 

STORING AND COOKING DRIED FOODS 

127. When foods are taken from the various drying devices 
to be stored, they still contain a very small quantity of moisture. 
This moisture, however, is not distributed evenly, because some of 
the pieces of food are larger than others, or some have been exposed 
more than others to heat or air in drying. To oiiEset this unequal 
drying, the containers in which the foods are to be stored should 
not be closed permanently as soon as the food is put into them. 
Rather, once a day, for about 3 days, the food should be poured 
from one container into another and back again several times. This 
will mix all the food and distribute the moisture equally. 

128. The object in storing dried foods is to keep them as dry as 
possible ; that is, not to allow them to absorb moisture from the air. 
The best containers in which they may be placed are those coated 



56 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

with paraffin. Paper' bags or boxes may be prepared in the home, by 
dipping them into paraffin, although heavy paper containers already 
covered with paraffin may be bought in supply stores. Heavy paper 
or cloth bags may be used, provided they are stored in a dry place 
where there is no danger from rats and mice. Containers of any 
kind should be securely tied before storing them permanently. Bags 
and boxes of dried food are preferably suspended from rafters in an 
attic, but if this is not possible a rack or a bin located in a place that 
is not damp will answer. 

It is well, in storing dried foods, to use containers that will hold 
only a small quantity of food, so that when some is taken out to be 
cooked a large amount will not be exposed. It is best to store just 
enough for a meal or two in each container. 

129. Before dried foods are cooked, as much as possible of the 
water evaporated in drying should be restored. In order to do this, 
soaking is necessary. The dried food should be put into cold salt 
water made in the proportion of 1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 quart of 
water and soaked for at least J hour. The salt water seems to help 
restore the original color of the food. When dried vegetables are 
to be cooked, they should be cooked in the salt water in which they 
are soaked ; when dried fruits are to be cooked, the salt water should 
be poured off and fresh water used. Long, slow cooking at a low 
temperature is better for all kinds of dried foods than rapid cooking. 
The fireless cooker will be found valuable for cooking dried foods. 



CANNING AND DRYING 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) Give three reasons for canning food. 

(2) What foods may be canned? 

(3). (o) How may satisfactory canning equipment be provided at little 
or no cost? (6) What metals are not good for canning or preserving kettles? 

(4) (o) What are the requirements for satisfactory types of jars? 
(6) What are the qualities of good jar rubbers? 

(5) What kind of tin cans should be used for canning fruits dr vegetables 
that contain acid? 

(6) (a) Why should care be exercised in the selection of foods to be 
canned? (J) What points must be considered in the selection of foods for 
canning ? 

(7) Why do canned foods spoil? 

(8) How may canned foods be prevented from spoiling? 

(9) (a) What are spores? (&) What connection have spores with the 
spoiling of canned food? 

(10) Mention three things that assist in the keeping of canned foods. 

(11) (o) How should jar covers and rubbers be treated in the open-kettle 
canning method? (6) Describe the filling and closing of jars in this method. 

(12) (o) Describe the utensil used for processing in the one-period cold- 
pack canning method. (6) How should jars, covers, and rubbers be treated 
in this method? 

(13) (o) How are foods blanched and scalded, and why are blanching and 
scalding done? (&) How are foods cold-dipped, and why is cold-dipping done? 

(14) (a) How should foods be packed in jars in the cold-pack canning 
method? (6) How should the rubber and cover be adjusted before process- 
ing? (c) When should you begin to count the boiling time for food that is 
being processed in the water bath? 

(15) (o) How and when should jars be closed in the cold-pack method? 
(fc) How should jars of food be cooled? 

§22 
WI-CS-9 



2 CANNING AND DRYING § 22 

(16) (o) How should jars of food be treated for storage? (6) How 
should they be stored? 

(17) Mention some advantages of dried foods over fresh or canned ones. 

(18) What important points should be considered in the process of drying 
food? 

(19) What are the proportions of salt and water into which foods that 
discolor are placed before they are canned or dried? 

(20) What precautions should be observed in the storing of dried foods? 



JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND 
PICKLING 



VALUE OF JELLIES, PRESERVES, AND MCKLES 

1. Like canning and drying, jellymaking, preserving, and 

pickling are methods of preparing perishable foods to resist 
decomposition and change. When treated by any of these three 
processes, fruits and vegetables will keep for long periods of time 
and will thus be ready for use during the seasons when they cannot 
be obtained fresh. The preservation of food by making it into 
jellies, preserves, and pickles does not, as in the case of canning, 
depend on the sterilization of the product, but rather on the use of 
certain ingredients that act as preservatives. These include sugar, 
spices, salt, and vinegar, all of which are considered harmless pre- 
servatives in both the home and the commercial preparation of foods. 

2. The making of jelly, preserves, and pickles may seem like an 
extravagance in the expenditure of money for materials, as well as 
of time and energy on the part of the housewife. Whether this is 
the case or not is a matter that must be decided by the housewife 
herself. If these foods are not of enough value to her in the prepa- 
ration of meals and the feeding of her family to make it worth her 
while to use her time and materials in storing them for winter use, 
then it is not wise for her to prepare them. But foods so preserved 
usually have sufficient merit to warrant the expenditure of the time 
and the money required in their making. 

3. In the first place, it will often be necessary to throw away 
material that would make excellent jelly or jam unless the sugar can 
be supplied and the time given to make this material into something 
that is edible and at the same time attractive. As is well known, all 
through the canning season, there is some material, which may have 

anPYRIOHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

§23 



2 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING §23 

been intended for canning, but which, for some reason, cannot be 
used in that way. Such material should be utilized in the prepara- 
tion of these foods. For instance, some of the berries and other 
fruits bought for canning may be found to be too ripe to make a 
good-looking product, but may be very satisfactory for the making 
of jams or jellies. Then, too, if the open-kettle method of canning 
is used, there is almost certain to be a superfluous amount of juice 
that would be wasted if it were not used in the making of jelly. 
Such material need not necessarily be used at the time, for it may be 
canned and then made up later at some more convenient time. 

In addition to material of this kind, there is often a surplus of 
vegetables and fruits on hand, particularly if one has access to a 
garden. Much of this can be canned and dried, but what is not 
desired for these purposes might be wasted if it were not made up 
into appetizing jellies, preserves, and pickles. 

4. Even though it were not necessary to consider the matter of 
waste and the utilizing of surplus fruits and vegetables, there would 
still be sufficient reason for the making of jellies, preserves, and 
pickles, because these foods, when properly prepared, have great 
value in the meal. Jellies and preserves, because of the large quan- 
tity of sugar used in them, are foods high in carbohydrate. In view 
of this fact, they should be considered as a part of the meal in which 
they are served, instead of being used extravagantly or regarded as 
something extra in an already sufficiently large menu. 

Besides their importance in food value, they should have a place 
in the diet because they stimulate the appetite through their attrac- 
tive colors and delicious flavors. The familiar fact that a child will 
refuse to eat plain bread and butter, but will accept the same piece 
when it has been made attractive by the addition of a little jam, 
argues much for the use of foods of this sort in children's diet. As 
it is with children, so it is to a large extent with adults. During the 
winter months, when fruits and fresh vegetables are scarce and 
expensive, practically every one finds jellies and preserves appetiz- 
ing, for these things, in a measure, take the place of the foods that 
are difficult to procure. 

5. Not so much can be said of the various kinds of pickles, as 
they are not so valuable in the diet from the standpoint of food 
values. They are made from fruits and vegetables, as are jellies 
and preserves, but the preservatives used in their preparation are 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 3 

vinegar and spices. In addition to having no food value, such 
ingredients produce overstimulation and irritation in the alimentary 
tract, toughen the cellulose in the foods used, and consequently often 
cause indigestion and various gastric disturbances. Eor these 
reasons, pickles should not be included in the diet of children. How- 
ever, because of the stimulation they produce in the stomach, foods 
of this kind, if taken in small quantities, are properly served as 
appetizers, and can be eaten by normal adults without fear of diges- 
tive disturbances. Then, too, as every one who has meals to prepare 
knows, they are valuable for relieving monotony in the diet, a point 
that should not be overlooked. 

6. Because the preservation of food in jellies, preserves, and 
pickles is accomplished by the use of certain preservatives instead 
of by the sterilization of the food, as in canning, these preparations 
do not mold or spoil readily. Therefore, containers of a different 
nature from those used in canning may be used to store these foods. 
Jars having tightly sealed covers are not required, but such con- 
tainers as wide-necked bottles, stone jars or crocks, glasses, etc. may 
be utilized for this purpose. In fact, containers of almost any 
description may be used for jellies, preserves, and pickle?. They 
should, of course, be sealed in some way to prevent the entrance of 
bacteria, and various methods of accomplishing this have been 
devised. A very satisfactory way consists in pouring melted paraffin 
over the top of the food and then covering the container with a piece 
of heavy paper and tying this on securely with cord. 

7. Since jellies, preserves, and pickles occupy a place of impor- 
tance in the diet and at the same time provide an opportunity to 
utilize material that might otherwise be wasted, they are entitled to 
a certain amount of attention from the housewife. To equip her 
with the knowledge she needs for this work and give her practice in 
jelly making, preserving, and pickling, the details of these processes 
are taken up, step by step, in this Section. 



4 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



JELLY MAKING 



PRINCIPLES OF JELLY MAKING 

8. Jelly making: consists in cooking fruit juice with sugar 
until, upon cooling, it will solidify, or jell. While this is not a diffi- 
cult nor a complicated process, there are some housewives who do 
not have success with it. Often the result may be very good when 
a certain fruit is used, whereas it may be entirely unsatisfactory at 
another time, even though the same fruit is used and practically the 
same procedure is followed. If the best results are to be assured in 
jelly making, the principles that are involved in this process must 
first be thoroughly understood and then the correct procedure must 
be painstakingly followed out. 

9. To solidify properly and thus become a desirable jelly, the 
fruit juice that is used for this purpose must have the following 
characteristics and treatment: (1) it must contain certain jelly- 
making properties; (2) it must be extracted properly; (3) it must 
be combined with the correct proportion of sugar; and (4) it must 
be cooked the proper length of time. There are, of course, numerous 
degrees of solidity of jelly, varying from that which will barely 
retain its shape to that which is very tough and hard, but neither 
extreme is desirable. To be right, the jelly should be firm enough 
to stand up well, but should be tender and soft when a spoon is cut 
into it. 

10. Fruit is the principal ingredient in the making of jelly, as it 
is the source from which the juice is obtained. Such imperfections 
in fruits as poor shape or unattractive appearance do not count 
in this matter, since only the juice is used; but they must contain 
jelly-making properties in order that jelly can be made from them. 

Green or slightly unripe fruits are better for jelly making than 
fruits that have become ripe. In fact, when in this immature state, 
fruits may be used to make jelly, whereas the same fruits, when per- 
fectly ripe, often will not make jelly at all, or, if they do, will produce 
a jelly that is inferior in quality. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 5 

11. The chief requirement of fruits that are to be used for jelly 
making is that they contain acid and pectin. Pectin is the real jelly- 
making property of fruits. When it is in the presence of acid and 
combined with the correct proportion of sugar and the combination 
is properly boiled, a desirable jelly is the result. Without pectin, 
however, it is impossible to make the juice solidify, or jell. Pectin 
is closely related to the carbohydrates, but as it does not yield heat 
energy nor build tissue, its food value is not considered. In this 
respect, it is like the cellulose of fruits and vegetables. 

It is because green fruits contain more pectin than do ripe fruits 
that they are more suitable for jelly making. The lack of either acid 
or pectin need not, however, prevent the making of jelly from fruits, 
such as sweet fruits, that contain other jelly-making properties, for 
either or both may be supplied from some other source. In other 
words, jelly may be made from any fruit that will yield juice and 
flavor. 



EQUIPMENT FOR JELLY MAKING 

12. Necessary Equipment. — In the making of jelly, as in the 
preparation of many other foods, numerous utensils will be found 




Fig. 1 

convenient and may, if desired, be supplied to make the work easier. 
However, the necessary ones are comparatively few in number and, 
for the most part, are found in almost every kitchen. In Fig. 1 are 



6 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING. AND PICKLING § 23 

shown assembled practically all the equipment used in the making of 
jelly, and if a housewife is provided with these things or substitutes 
for them, she will be well equipped for her work. 

13. Kettles. — As will be observed, two kettles are required in 
jelly making. The larger one is used for cooking the fruit, and the 
smaller one, to cook the juice and the sugar. These should have 
a perfectly smooth surface, and may be made of almost any material 
used for such utensils, except tin or iron. These two metals are 
undesirable, as they are liable to lend to the jelly a disagreeable flavor 
and in all probability an unattractive color. The one used to cook 
the fruit should generally be a little larger than the other. As about 
6 glassfuls of jelly may be cooked at one time, the kettle in which the 
juice is boiled should be of adequate size to cook this amount with- 
out danger of its boiling over. When fruit juice and sugar are 
boiled together, the mixture often boils up and runs over if the 
vessel is not large enough. 

14. Jelly Bag. — The jelly bag, which is used for straining the 
boiled fruit and thus obtaining the juice, may be a home-made one 
or, as shown in the illustration, one that is purchased for the purpose. 
If the bag is made at home, a heavy, closely woven material, such as 
flannel, should be selected, so as to prevent the tiny particles of fruit 
from passing through with the juice. A liquid strained in this 
manner will be much clearer and will make better looking jelly than 
that which has been run through a coarse material, such as cheese- 
cloth. The juice can be strained very conveniently if the bag is 
attached to a wire arrangement, like the one shown, or to an upright 
standard that can be fastened to a chair or a table, for then the bag 
is held securely over the vessel into which the juice drips. Some- 
times, especially when more than one extraction of the juice is to be 
made, the first extraction is made by means of a strainer or a colan- 
der and the juice thus obtained is then strained through the bag. 

15. Additional Utensils. — ^As accurate measurements are 
absolutely essential in jelly making, a measuring cup should be 
included in the equipment. Then, too, a quart measure will be found 
very convenient, especially if large quantities of materials are to be 
cooked at one time. A large spoon or two for stirring, skimming, 
and testing should also be provided. The spoon used for skimming 
will produce better results if the bowl contains holes that will permit 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 7 

the juice to drop back into the vessel, for then none of the juice will 
be wasted. 

16. Containers for Jelly. — ^Various types of receptacles in 
which to keep jelly are in use, some turning out more attractive 
molds than others. The shape of the mold, however, is a matter of 
minor importance. Almost any wide-mouthed glass receptacle with 
comparatively smooth sides will do very well, since the sealing of 
jelly is not a difficult thing to do. Therefore, new receptacles should 
not be purchased if there is a supply of any suitable kind on hand, 
for many other containers besides purchased jelly glasses may be 
used for this purpose. The most convenient type, which may be 
bought in any store selling kitchen utensils, is that shown in Fig. 1. 
As will be observed, these are somewhat broad and not very tall. A 
mold of jelly turned from a tall, narrow glass does not stand up so 
well as that turned from a flat, wide one. Then, too, a tall glass 
is much more likely to tip and spill than a more shallow one. 

17. Metal covers that fit the tops of the glasses, like the ones 
shown, are the most convenient kind that can be used, but they are 
not an absolute necessity. In their place may be used paper caps 
that fit the glasses, or the tops of the glasses may be covered with 
paper and then tied. Before a cover of any kind is put on a glass, 
paraffin, several cakes of which are arranged on a plate in Fig. 1, is 
melted and poured in a thin layer over the top of the jelly itself. 

To designate the kind of jelly, it is advisable to label the glasses 
with neat labels, a box of which is included in the equipment here 
shown. 

18. Paraffin-covered paper cups have been recommended to take 
the place of jelly glasses, and while they do very well in the case of 
scarcity of containers they have some disadvantages. In the first 
place, they can be used only once, as it is impossible to wash them. 
In addition, it will be necessary to wait until the jelly is partly cold 
before pouring it into such cups, as hot jelly will melt the paraffin on 
the surface of the paper. 



8 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



PROCEDURE IN JELLY MAKING 

19. When the necessary utensils have been conveniently placed 
and the desired fruit has been selected, the housewife may proceed 
at once to the work of making jelly. Each step is here outlined in 
the order in which it should be taken up in doing the actual work. 
The entire procedure should be properly followed out in order to 
insure the best results, and every part of the work should be care- 
fully done so as to avoid any waste of material. 

20. Cooking' the Fruit. — Prepare the fruit in whatever way 
is necessary. The preparation needed will depend, of course, on the 
kind of fruit selected for the jelly, but usually not so much prepara- 
tion is needed as in the 
case of canning. For 
instance, when c r a b - 
apple jelly is made, the 
stems are removed and 
the fruit is cut into 
halves or quarters, but 
they need not be peeled 
nor have the seeds taken 
out. Specific directions 
for the different vari- 
eties of fruits are given 
in the various recipes. 
The chief precaution to 

take in preparing the fruit, no matter what kind is used, is to see 
that it is thoroughly cleaned. 

With the fruit prepared, put it into a large kettle and add enough 
water to start the cooking and prevent scorching. Some fruits will 
require more water than others, especially when they must be cooked 
a long time in order to soften them sufficiently to extract the juice. 
Juicy fruits, like plums, need only the minimum amount of water, 
while drier fruits, such as apples, require more. Place the kettle on 
the stove, as in Fig. 2, and allow the fruit to cook until it is soft or 
is reduced to a pulp. The length of time for cooking will also 
depend entirely on the kind of fruit that is being used. 

21. Extracting Juice. — ^When the fruit is thoroughly cooked, 
pour the pulp and the juice that has formed into the jelly bag and 




Fig. 2 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 9 



allow it to drip into a pan placed directly under the bag, as shown in 
Fig. 3. Formerly, it was the custom to let the juice drip until no 
more remained in the bag. This method is followed to some extent 
at present, but it is falling into disuse, as it is not the most economical 
way of extracting the juice from the pulp. More juice can be 
obtained and more jelly made from the same amount of fruit if three 
extractions instead of one are made. Make the first extraction by 
pouring the pulp and juice into the bag and permitting the juice to 
drip only until it begins to run very slowly. Then return the pulp 
to the kettle, add a small quantity of water, and let it boil again for 
a few minutes. Pour it the second time into the jelly bag, and let it 
drip as before. Cook 
it the third time in the 
same way, and then 
allow it to drip until all 
the juice is extracted. 
At this point, mix the 
juice from the three ex- 
tractions. They should 
not be used separately, 
for they are much dif- 
ferent in quality, the 
third one being not so 
good as the second and 
the second, inferior to 
the first. On the other 
hand, when all three are 
mixed, an excellent quality is the result, provided all conditions are 
correct, and a larger quantity of juice is obtained for the jelly. 

22. The quantity of juice that may be extracted depends on the 
quality as well as the kind of fruit. If the season is a rainy one, 
the fruits will be found to contain more juice than they would in a 
dry season. Then, too, if the fruits are picked immediately after 
a rain, they will contain more juice than the same fruits before the 
rain. The amount of juice the fruit contains determines, of course, 
the quantity of water that should be added in the cooking. If only 
one extraction is intended, 3 to 4 quarts of water may be used for 
8 quarts of fruit, depending on the kind of fruit ; but if three extrac- 
tions are to be made, less water should be added for each extraction. 




Fig. 3 



10 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



In case the extracted juice contains more water than it should have, 
either because the fruit contains an excessive amount of water or 
because too much water was added to the fruit in its cooking, the 
superfluous water will be extracted by boiling the juice with the 
sugar a little longer as the jelly is being made. 

It is not always necessary to have the fleshy part of fruit for 
jelly making, for often the skins, seeds, and cores of fruits may 
be cooked with water and the juice then extracted from them. 
Another point to remember is that the pulp from which the juice is 
extracted may sometimes be used for jam or marmalade. If points 
like these are taken into consideration, it will not be necessary to 
waste any part of edible fruits. 

23. Testing tlie Juice for Pectin. — When the juice has been 
extracted from the fruit, it should be tested for pectin in order to 

determine whether or 
not it will be satisfactory 
for the making of jelly. 
A test that can be ap- 
plied by the housewife is 
illustrated in Fig. 4. Into 
a tumbler, put a table- 
spoonful of juice and 
with this mix a table- 
spoonful of alcohol. If, 
upon adding the alcohol, 
the fruit juice turns into 
a gelatinous, or jelly-like, 
mass that may be easily 
gathered up on the 
spoon, it may be known 
that pectin is present. As has already been stated, the presence 
of this substance in fruit juice insures the fact that jelly can be 
made from the juice. 

24. Using Juice Lacking in Pectin. — If, in the test for 
. pectin, the addition of alcohol to the fruit juice does not turn the 

juice into a jelly-like mass, pectin is not present. Such juice, or 
juice that contains only a small amount of pectin, will prove unsuc- 
cessful in jelly making unless some substance or juice high in pectin 
is added to it. The white skin from the inside of orange, lemon, or 




Fig. 4 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 11 

grape-fruit peelings or the juice from apples, crab apples, currants, 
green gooseberries, or other fruit containing a large quantity of 
pectin may be used for this purpose. Also, commercial pectin may be 
purchased and used with fruits according to the directions that accom- 
pany it. 

It is always necessary to supply pectin in some way to such fruits 
as strawberries, peaches, raspberries, blueberries, cherries, pears, etc. 
To the sweet ones, like peaches and raspberries, lemon juice or other 
acid fruit juice also must be added if satisfactory jelly is desired. 

25. Determining Proportion of Sugar. — The only other 
ingredient used in jelly making, besides the fruit juice, is feugar. 
After the juice has been strained from the fruit, the next step is to 
determine how much sugar must be used. This is of extreme impor- 




FiG. 5 

tance, as the success of the jelly depends very largely on whether 
or not the correct proportion is used. If too much sugar is added 
to the juice, a greater quantity of jelly will result, but it will not 
Stand up as it should when it is turned out of the glass. On the 
other hand, if too little sugar is used, a smaller quantity of jelly than 
the required amount will be made and it will be tough and sour. 

26. It is difficult to give the exact proportion of sugar to use 
with every kind of fruit, for some fruits require more than others. 
However, in general, | cupful of sugar to each cupful of juice, as 
shown in Fig. 5, will be sufficient. This is especially true if the 
season has been a dry one and the fruits are neither very sour nor 
very juicy. After a wet season or with very sour or very juicy 
fruits, it will usually be necessary to use 1 cupful of sugar to each 
cupful of juice. 



12 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



27. Much waste of sugar and spoiling of jelly can be avoided 
by the use of the test for pectin, which has just been described. 
After the juice and the alcohol have been mixed, pour the mixture 
slowly from the glass, noting how the pectin is precipitated. If it 
is precipitated as one lump, a cupful of sugar may be used for each 
cupful of juice ; if in several lumps, the proportion of sugar must be 
reduced to approximately three-fourths the amount of juice. If the 
pectin is not in lumps, but is merely precipitated, the sugar should 
be one-half or less of the amount of the juice. 

28. To assist in determining the correct proportion of sugar to 
use in the making of jelly, the hydrometer, or sirup gauge, which is 

explained in Canning and Drying, will be found 
helpful. After the juice has been extracted, mix 
with a small amount of it the proportion of sugar 
that is to be used when the jelly is cooked. Allow 
the sugar to dissolve completely, pour a little of the 
mixture into a glass or a graduate, and insert the 
hydrometer, as shown in Fig. 6. Regardless of 
the kind of juice, the hydrometer should register 
25 degrees for perfect jelly. If it registers less 
than 25 degrees, more sugar should be added. Then 
if it is necessary to add either sugar or juice, the 
additional ingredient should be carefully measured 
in order that the proportions may be correct for the 
making of jelly. 

It must not be understood that a hydrometer is 
an actual necessity in the making of jelly, for very 
good jelly can be made without measuring the 
ingredients in this manner. However, if a hydrom- 
eter is not used, it will be necessary to apply the 

best judgment possible to the rules given for the proportion of 

ingredients used in jelly making. 

29. Combining the Jnice and Sugar. — The mixing of the 
juice and the sugar may seem like a trivial matter, but in reality 
much is involved in combining these ingredients properly. It may be 
done in three different ways. In the first method, which is called 
long boiling, the sugar and the juice are mixed cold and are then 
allowed to come to the boiling point together. The second, which 
is known as mean boiling, consists in putting the cold juice on the 




Fig. 6 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 13 



stove, allowing it to boil about half the required time, and then 
adding the sugar, which has also been heated. In the third, which 
is known as the short-boiling method, the juice is boiled without the 
sugar almost the full length of time required for making the jelly, 
and the sugar, which has been heated, is added just before the boil- 
ing is completed. 

30. Experience in the use of these three methods has shown 
their advantages and disadvantages. The first one, or the long-boil- 
ing process, has the disadvantage of losing sugar through the skim- 
ming that is always necessary in the making of jelly. In addition, 
the long boiling often causes the sugar to crystallize and thus pro- 
duces a jelly that would not score very high. The short boiling is not 
entirely satisfactory, be- 
cause of the difficulty in 
determining just when to 
add the sugar to the juice. 
The process of mean boil- 
ing, having neither of 
these drawbacks and usu- 
ally resulting in jelly of 
excellent quality, is the 
most satisfactory and the 
one that is recommended. 

To carry out this 
method, place the sugar 
in a pan in a warm oven 
or other place where it 
will gradually become heated without either melting or scorching. 
Put the juice over the fire in a saucepan and let it boil for 5 to 
8 minutes. Then, as shown in Fig. 7, slowly add the correct pro- 
portion of hot sugar to the boiling juice, stirring constantly so that 
the sugar will dissolve as quickly as possible. 

31. Boiling the Juice and Sugar. — The boiling of the juice, 
both before and after the sugar is added, should be done rapidly. 
During this process, it will be found that a scum will form over the 
top of the juice. This should be skimmed off as it forms, for it is a 
detriment to the jelly. As shown in Fig. 8, draw a large spoon over 
the top of the boiling juice from time to time and skim off the scum 
that rises, placing it into any small dish that is handy. It is usually 



^^£^0^' 


(t 


^^Kx^^^ 


>n 




^^"' 




mH ^ 



Fig. 7 



14 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



advisable to do as much skimming as possible before the sugar is 
added, so that only a minimum amount of sugar will be lost. 

The length of time required to boil the juice after the sugar is 
added depends very largely on the way in which the boiling is carried 
on. If the mixture is boiled rapidly, less time will, of course, be 
needed than if it is boiled slowly. Therefore, no definite time can be 
set for the cooking. However, several tests may be resorted to in 
order to determine whether the sugar and juice have boiled long 
enough to jell when the mixture is cold. 

32. Testing tlie Jelly Mixture. — The testing of the mixture 
can be done in various ways, the one to select depending on the 
success the housewife has in using them. A means very often 
resorted to consists in 

dipping a spoonful or 
two of the mixture out 
of the kettle and pour- 
ing it on the flat surface 
of a cold dish. If it 
is cooked sufficiently, it 
will solidify when it is 
cold and will appear just 
like jelly. The disad- 
vantage of this test lies 
in the fact that the jelly 
on the stove continues to 
boil while the test is 
being made, and as this takes several minutes, the jelly is likely to 
overboil to a considerable extent. Tests that can be performed more 
quickly are therefore more satisfactory. 

33. A test that invariably proves successful consists in dipping 
up a spoonful of the juice and allowing it to run slowly from the 
spoon back into the pan. If, as shown in Fig. 9, a double row of 
drops forms on the spoon with the last of the jelly that remains, it 
may be known that the cooking is finished. 

34. Another very satisfactory test is called sheeting. In the 
performing of this test, a spoonful of the jelly is dipped from the 
pan and then poured from the spoon into the pan again. If it is 
cooked to the proper consistency, large drops will form at the edge 
of the spoon and break off quickly. 




Fig. 8 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 15 



35. Filling the Glasses. — As soon as it has been determined 
that the jelly is sufficiently cooked, it should be removed from the 
stove. The glasses may 
then be filled at once. 
These, together with the 
covers, must be thor- 
oughly cleansed before 
being used, and this can 
be done while the jelly 
is cooking. After being 
thoroughly washed, sub- 
merge them in a pan of 
hot water and allow 
them to remain there 
until they are to be used. 
Keeping them hot in this 
way will prevent them 
from cracking when the hot jelly is poured into them. Take out one 
glass at a time, place it on a small plate or any small dish, and, as 
shown in Fig. 10, pour the hot jelly into it from the pan to within 
i inch of the top. Fill the remaining glasses in the same way, and 
then set them somewhere out of a draft to cool. If, as the jelly 
cools, it seems to be a little bit thin, place it somewhere in the sun- 
shine and the heat of 
the 




Fig. 9 




sun 
thicken it. 



will help to 



36. Closing and 
Storing the Jelly 
Glasses. — The jelly 
should be allowed to 
cool completely and 
should then be closed 
for storing. The best 
results are obtained by 
putting a thin layer of 
paraffin over the top of 
the jelly in each glass before applying the cover. To do this, put into 
a small saucepan as much paraffin as you think will be needed to cover 
the jelly you have made and set this on the stove to melt. When it 

W I— C ■!— 10 



Fig. 10 



16 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 



23 



has melted, pour a layer about I inch thick over the surface of the 
jelly, as shown in Fig. 11. As soon as it cools, it will harden and 
thus form a protective covering for the jelly. When it is hard, 
cover the glass in the desired way. Covers of tin are perhaps the 

most satisfactory, but if 
these cannot be secured, 
heavy paper covers that 
fit into the glasses snugly 
will answer the purpose 
very well. In the event 
of not having covers of 
either of these kinds, 
cover the tops of the 
glasses with paper — any 
good wrapping paper 
will do — and then tie 
this paper securely. 
Just before putting the 
jelly away, label each 
glass with a neat label on which is written the name of the jelly. 
Then no difficulty will be experienced in selecting at once the kind 
of jelly desired when one is taking a glass from the place where it 
is stored. 




Fig. 11 



SCORING JELLY 

37. With jelly, as with canned fruit, it is a splendid idea for 
every housewife to score each kind she makes, so that she can deter- 
mine how it measures up in its various characteristics. If it falls 
below the standard, this fact should be known, so that the fault can 
be remedied the next time. On the other hand, extreme satisfaction 
is felt if it is found to score high. To assist in scoring jelly, a score 
card is here given, and following it each one of the characteristics 
is discussed. 

Score Card for Jelly p^ q^^^ 

Color 20 

Solidity 25 

Flavor 25 

Sugar Content 25 

Method of Sealing 5 

Total m 



§■23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 17 

Color. — For jelly having the proper color, 20 per cent, is given. 
The fruit used in the making of jelly determines to a great extent 
the color of the finished product, but it is possible to have a very 
wide difference in the colors of jelly made from the same fruit. To 
be right, jelly should be clear, bright, and not too dark. If the juice 
is boiled too long, the jelly will be darker than it should be. If pulp 
has been allowed to pass through the jelly bag in straining out the 
juice, either through squeezing the bag or using a bag that is too 
thin, the jelly will be found to have a cloudy appearance. 

Solidity. — When jelly is turned from the glass, it should be firm 
enough to stand alone. If it has not been boiled long enough, it will 
crush down and perhaps run like sirup. If it is boiled too long or 
the proportion of juice to sugar is not correct, it may be tough and 
leathery. Jelly whose solidity is correct scores 25 per cent, in this 
respect. 

Flavor. — ^The characteristic flavor of the fruit used in making 
jelly should be retained as much as possible, and when this is the 
case 25 per cent, is given to the product. The flavor of the jelly 
is therefore dependent on the flavor of the fruit. In addition, 
the flavor depends on the amount of sugar used, the amount of acid 
in the fruit, and the length of time consumed by the boiling. Jellies 
boiled too long will be strong in flavor. 

Sugar Content. — The sugar content of jelly should be determined 
by the amount of acid that must be sweetened. An insufficient 
amount of sugar will result in tough, sour jelly, while too large a 
quantity will make the jelly taffy-like. The correct amount of sugar, 
which produces the right degree of sweetness, receives a score of 
25 per cent. 

Method of Sealing. — The method of sealing may seem like a 
matter of little importance, but if jelly is not sealed properly, it will 
not be in good condition when it is to be served. To score in this 
respect, for which 5 per cent, is given, the jelly should be covered 
with paraffin and then closed with a cover or with paper in order 
to exclude the dust and dirt. 



18 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



RECIPES FOR JELLY 

38. Recipes for the kinds of jelly usually made are here given. 
If the directions given in the procedure for jelly making are thor- 
oughly mastered and then applied to these recipes, the housewife 
will experience very little difficulty in making any of these varieties. 
Other jellies may, without doubt, be made by combining the proper 
fruits. All that has to be done in order to determine whether a 
certain fruit juice or combination of fruit juices will make jelly is 
to apply the test for pectin already explained. Whatever quantity 
of jelly is desired may be made, but usually it can be handled best 
if not more than 6 glassfuls are made at one time. 

39. Crab- Apple Jelly. — Crab apples are much used for jelly, 
as they make a product of good consistency and excellent flavor. 
Apples may be used in the same way as crab apples with equally 
good results. 

Wash the apples thoroughly, remove the stems, and cut into 
quarters. Make sure that the apples contain no worms. Put them 
into a kettle, add about half as much water as apples, and cook 
slowly until the apples are soft. Strain the juice through a jelly 
bag. Before it stops dripping, return the pulp to the kettle, add 
half as much water as pulp, and allow the fruit to cook again. 
Make a second extraction, and in the same way make a third 
one. Then combine the juice, and strain all of it through a bag to 
make it clear. Measure 6 or 8 cupfuls of juice, and pour it into a 
preserving kettle. Boil for about 5 minutes, straining off the scum 
that rises to the top. To each cupful of juice, add f to 1 cupful of 
sugar that has been heated. Crab apples will require 1 cupful of 
sugar, but apples milder in flavor will not need more than f cupful. 
Boil until the test shows that it has boiled long enough. Pour into ■ 
hot glasses, cool, and seal. Label and then store for later use. 

40. Currant Jelly. — If jelly having a tart flavor is desired, 
currant jelly should be tried. This kind of jelly is especially good 
to serve with the heavy course of a meal. 

V/ash and stem the currants. Put them into a kettle and add 
about one-fourth as much water as currants. Boil until the currants 
are reduced to a pulp. Pour into a jelly bag and strain. Make at 
)east one more extraction, and a third extraction if there is a fairly 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 19 

large quantity of pulp. When all the juice has been strained from 
the pulp, strain it again through the bag or a heavy cloth. Measure 
6 or 8 cupfuls of juice into a kettle, boil for about 5 minutes, and 
then add from three-fourths to an equal amount of heated sugar. 
Remove the scum as it forms, taking off as much as possible before 
the sugar is added. Continue to boil until the tests show that the 
mixture has cooked sufficiently. Remove from the heat and pour 
into hot glasses. Cool, seal, label, and store. 

41. Grape Jelly. — ^Thoroughly ripe grapes may be used for 
jelly, but they are not so satisfactory for this purpose as grapes that 
are only partly ripe. This is due to the fact that green grapes con- 
tain more pectin and, upon being cooked, produce fewer of the 
cream-of -tartar crystals usually found in grape jelly than do ripe 
ones. The procedure for grape jelly is the same as that for currant 
jelly. If ripe grapes are used, f cupful of sugar will be needed to 
each cupful of juice ; but if only partly ripe grapes are used, 1 cupful 
of sugar will be required for every cupful of juice. 

42. Quince Jelly. — Because of its attractive color and delicate 
flavor, quince jelly is much favored. The quinces may be used 
alone, but if a still more delicate flavor is desired, apples may be 
added to the quinces, or the parings and cores of the quinces may 
be used with apples or crab apples. To make quince jelly, proceed 
in the same way as for apple jelly, using f cupful of sugar to 1 cupful 
of juice. 

43. Raspberry Jelly. — Either black or red raspberries may 
be used for jelly making. To give jelly made from these fruits a 
better consistency, a small quantity of green grape, crab-apple, or 
currant juice should be added. The procedure in this case is the 
same as for currant jelly. 

44. Strawberry Jelly. — ^Unripe strawberries contain a small 
amount of pectin, but thoroughly ripe ones are almost lacking in this 
respect. For this reason, strawberries cannot be used alone for 
making jelly. They make a delicious jelly, however, if currants are 
combined with them. For each 5 or 6 quarts of strawberries, 1 quart 
of currants will be sufficient to make a jelly of good consistency. 
Wash and hull the strawberries and then proceed as for currant 
jelly. 



20 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

45. Plum Jelly. — Plums make a jelly that many persons like. 
If it is desired to use plums alone, those which are not thoroughly 
ripe should be selected. Ripe plums do not contain enough pectin 
for jelly; therefore, a fruit high in pectin, such as crab apples, must 
be added. The procedure for currant jelly should be followed for 
plum jelly. 

46. Peach. Jelly. — Peaches contain so little pectin that it is 
almost impossible to make jelly of them unless some other fruit is 
added in rather large quantities. Currants, crab apples, or green 
grapes may be used with peaches, and whichever one is selected will 
be needed in the proportion of about 50 per cent. ; that is, half as 
much additional fruit as peaches is needed. In the making of peach 
jelly, proceed as for currant jelly. 

47. Canning' Fruit Juices for Jelly. — During the canning 
season, when a great deal of such work is being done, the housewife 
often feels that making jelly and preserves is an extravagant use of 
sugar. Still, fruit juices left over from canning and large quantities 
of fruit, such as crab apples and currants, that are not suitable for 
other purposes, will be wasted unless they are used for jelly. If it 
is not convenient to use the fruit at the time it is obtained, a good 
plan is to extract the juice as for jelly making and then can it. In 
case this is done, jelly may be made from the juice during the seasons 
of the year when less sugar is required for other things. 

48. To can fruit juice, extract it from the fruit as for jelly 
making and then bring it to the boiling point. Select bottles or jars 
that may be tightly closed, sterilize them, fill them with the boiling 
juice, and seal them. Bottles may be used for this purpose if they 
are well corked and then dipped into melted sealing wax or paraffin. 
When properly sealed, fruit juices will probably keep without any 
further effort to preserve them, but to make positively certain that 
they will not spoil, it is a wise precaution to process the filled bottles 
or jars in boiling water for about 6 or 8 minutes in the same way 
in which canned fruit is processed. When treated in this way, fruit 
juices will keep perfectly and may be made into jelly at any time 
during the winter. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 21 



PRESERVING 



PRINCIPLES OF PKESERVING 

49. Preserving consists in preparing fruits in perfect condi- 
tion to resist decomposition or change by cooking them in heavy 
sirup. The cooking is done so slightly that the original form, flavor, 
and color of the fruit are retained as far as possible. This 
process, is similar to that of canning by the open-kettle method ; that 
is, the fruit and sugar are combined and cooked to the proper consis- 
tency in the preserving kettle. Sugar is used in such quantity in the 
preparation of preserves that it acts as a preservative and prevents 
bacteria from attacking the foods in which it is used. If preserves 
of any kind ferment, it may be known that not enough sugar was 
used in their preparation. The sterilization of the product and the 
air-tight sealing of the containers, which are necessary in the canning 
of fruits and vegetables, need not be resorted to in the case of 
preserves. 

50. Selection of Fruit. — ^When fruit is to be made into pre- 
serves, much attention should be paid to its selection, for, as a rule, 
only the finest fruits are used for preserving. This is especially true 
of the smaller fruits, such as berries and cherries, for they are 
preserved whole. Therefore, in order that they may have a good 
appearance when preserved, it is necessary that they be as perfect 
as possible to begin with. In addition, the fruit should be thoroughly 
ripe, but not mushy nor overripe. As the cooking of the fruits in 
sirup hardens them to a certain extent, fruits that are not sufificiently 
ripe cannot be used, for they would be too hard when done. If care 
is used in selecting fruits that are to be preserved, a good-appearing 
product will be the result, since this process is carried on in such a 
way as not to impair their shape. 

51. Metliods of Preservlngj — Several methods of preserv- 
ing fruit are in practice, but in general the same principles charac- 
terise each one. Probably the most successful method consists in 



22 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 2S 

bringing a certain proportion of sugar and water to the boiling point, 
dropping the fruit into the sirup thus formed, and cooking it for a 
definite length of time. Boiling fruits in heavy sirup has a tendency 
• to make them firm and solid, rather than to cook them to pieces, as 
would be the case with water or a thin sirup. Even very soft berries, 
when used for preserves, will retain almost their original size and 
shape if they are properly cooked. Except for the fact that a heavier 
sirup is used, the process of preserving fruit is exactly like that of 
canning fruit by the open-kettle method. The chief precaution to 
take in this method is that as little water as possible be used, so that 
the sirup may be very thick when the fruit is added. 

Another method that may be recommended because it helps to 
keep the fruit in good condition consists in cooking it in its own 
juice. In this method, equal quantities of fruit and sugar are put 
together and allowed to stand until enough juice is formed, prefer- 
ably overnight, so that the fruit may be cooked without the addition of 
any water. Strawberries are excellent when preserved in this way. 
Whichever method is followed, better results will be obtained if 
only a few quarts of fruit are cooked at a time. When a large quan- 
tity of berries, for instance, is added to the boiling sirup, they will 
form such a thick layer that they will have to remain over the fire 
a long time before they come to the boiling point. They will there- 
fore be much more likely to crush and give the finished product a 
mushy appearance than if a smaller quantity, which will form a 
thinner layer, is cooked each time. 

52. Utensils for Preserving. — The equipment necessary in 
the making of preserves is similar to that used for making jelly, 
with the exception of the dripping bag and the hydrometer. A 
good-sized preserving kettle is, of course, required for the cooking 
of the fruit and sirup; a measuring cup and a quart measure are 
needed for the measuring of the ingredients; and a long-handled 
wooden spoon or paddle is the most convenient utensil with which 
to stir all foods of this class. Containers similiar to those used for 
jelly will be satisfactory receptacles in which to put preserves, but 
as preserved fruits are not turned out in a mold, almost any kind of 
wide-mouthed bottle or jar may be used for this purpose. Paraffin 
should also be provided, as this should always be used for the first 
covering to prevent the formation of molds, which are likely to grow 
on moist sweet substances exposed to the air. Before using paraffin 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 23 

for preserves, they should be allowed to stand until the surface has 
become absolutely dry. It is well to label preserves, too; so labels 
should be kept on hand for this purpose. 



RECIPES FOR PRESERVED FRUITS 



VARIETIES OF PRESERVED FRUITS 

53. The several methods of preserving fruits result in consider- 
able variety in the finished product. Preserves proper are those 
cooked in a heavy sirup, either whole or cut into pieces. In addition 
to being prepared in this way, fruit may be made into conserve, 
marmalade, jam, and butter. Specific directions for the preparation 
of each one of these varieties are here given, together with a number 
of recipes showing the kinds of fruit most suitable for the different 
varieties. No housewife need deprive her family of any of these 
delicious preparations if she will familiarize herself with the methods 
explained and will follow out minutely the directions given. In the 
making of the various kinds of preserves, just as much care must be 
exercised as in canning and jelly making if the best results are 
desired. 



PRESERVES 

54. strawberry Preserve. — Strawberries selected for pre- 
serves should be of the dark, solid variety, if possible, since these 
shrink less and retain their shape and size better than do the lighter 
varieties. This fruit is made into preserves probably more often 
than any other kind, and this is not strange, for it makes a most 
delicious preserve. 

Strawberry Preserve 

2 qt. strawberries 1 lb. sugar 

^ c. hot water 
Clean the strawberries by placing them in a colander and raising 
and lowering them into a large pan of water. Remove the hulls 
and make sure that all the water is carefully drained from the 
berries. Add the water to the sugar and place over the fire in a 
preserving kettle that has a smooth surface. Stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, and allow the mixture to come to a rapid boil. To the 
rapidly boiling sirup, add the strawberries by dropping them care- 



2i JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

fully into it. Allow the fruit to come to the boiling point in the 
sirup, and continue to boil for 10 or 12 minutes. If the berries seem 
to contain an unusual amount of water, boiling for 15 minutes may 
be necessary. Remove from the fire and fill into hot sterilized glasses 
at once, or set aside to cool. It has been found that if the preserves 
are allowed to stand in the kettle overnight, they will improve in 
flavor and, because of the absorption of oxygen, which they lose in 
boiling, they will increase in size. If the preserves are treated in this 
way, it will be necessary to pour them cold into the sterilized glasses. 
When the preserves in the glasses are cold, pour melted paraffin over 
them. Cover them with metal or paper covers, label, and store for 
future use. 

55. Cherry Preserve. — If sour cherries can be secured, an 
excellent preserve can be made of them. Cherries should, of course, 
be seeded, or pitted, when they are prepared in this way. 

Cherry Preserve 

2 qt. seeded sour cherries 1 J lb. sugar 

1 c. hot water 
Drain off the superfluous juice from the cherries. Add the hot 
water to the sugar in a preserving kettle, and allow the mixture to 
come to a boil. Add the cherries and boil for 10 or 12 minutes. 
Have hot sterilized jelly glasses ready and fill with the hot pre- 
serves. Allow the preserves to cool, cover first with paraffin and 
then with metal or paper covers, and label. 

56. Raspberry Preserve. — Although red raspberries are a 
rather soft fruit, they can be used very well for preserves if care 
is taken not to break them into pieces by too long cooking or too 
rapid boiling. 

Raspberry Preserve 

2 qt. red raspberries 1 lb. sugar 

f c. hot water 

Wash the raspberries by placing them in a colander and raising 
and lowering them in a large pan of cold water. Mix the hot water 
with the sugar in a preserving kettle, place the mixture over the fire 
and bring to the boiling point. Add the raspberries to the boiling 
sirup, and when they have come to the boiling point, cook for 8 to 
10 minutes. Remove the hot preserves from the fire and pour into 
hot sterilized jars. Allow them to cool, seal with paraffin and metal 
or paper covers, and label. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 25 

57. Plum Preserve. — A very rich, tart preserve can be made 
by cooking plums in a thick sirup. Those who care for the flavor 
of plums will find preserves of this kind very much to their taste. 

Plum Preserve 
2 qt. plums IJ lb. sugar 

1 c. hot water 
Select any variety of plums desired for preserves, and wash them 
in cold water. Cut them in half and remove the seeds. Place the 
hot water and the sugar in a preserving kettle, and bring to a rapid 
boil. Add the plums and boil slowly for IS minutes. Remove from 
the fire, pour into hot sterilized jelly glasses. Allow them to cool 
and cover first with paraffin and then with metal or paper covers. 
Before storing, label each glass neatly. 

58. Quince Preserve. — Quinces combined with apples make 
a preserve that finds favor with many. As shown in the accompany- 
ing recipe, about one-third as many apples as quinces make the 
required proportion. 

Quince Preserve 
3 qt. quinces, peeled and quartered 1 J c. hot water 

1 qt. apples, peeled and quartered 3 lb. sugar 

Select well-ripened quinces. Rub the fuzz from the skin with a 
cloth, and then wash, peel, quarter, and core. If desired, they may 
be sliced, but they are very nice when preserved in quarters. Select 
firm apples, wash, peel, quarter, and core them, and cut them the 
same size as the quinces. Add the water to the sugar, place the mix- 
ture over the fire in a preserving kettle, and let it come to a boil. 
Add the quinces, cook until tender, and remove from the sirup. 
Then cook the apples in the sirup in the same way, and when tender 
remove from the sirup. Place the fruits in alternate layers in hot 
jars. Unless the sirup is very thick, boil it until it becomes heavy ; 
then fill each jarful of fruit with this sirup. Seal with paraffin, 
cover with metal or paper covers, and label. 

59. Peach Preserve. — ^Although somewhat bland in flavor, 
peaches make an excellent preserve. Some persons prefer them cut 
into very small slices, while others like them preserved in large slices. 

Peach Preserve 

4 qt. peaches 3 lb. sugar 

1-J c. hot water 
Select firm peaches. Wash, pare, and cut into slices of any desir- 
able size. Add the water to the sugar in a preserving kettle, place 



26 TELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

over the fire, and allow the mixture to come to a rapid boil. Drop 
the sliced peaches into the sirup and cook until tender. Have hot 
sterilized jars ready, fill with the hot preserves, and seal with 
paraffin. Cover in the desired way and label. 



CONSERVES 

60. Conserves do not differ materially from preserves in their 
preparation, but they usually consist of a mixture of two or more 
fruits, whereas preserves are made from a single fruit. All rules 
that govern the making of preserves apply equally well to the making 
of conserves. 

There are certain fruits that combine very well as far as flavor, 
color, etc. are concerned, and these are generally used together in 
the preparation of this food. However, almost any combination of 
fruits may be made into conserves. This is therefore a very good 
way in which to utilize small quantities of left-over fruits. Then, 
too, a cheap material may be combined with a more expensive one 
to make a larger quantity of a moderately priced product, as, for 
instance, rhubarb and pineapple. Again, the pulp from which juice 
has been extracted for jelly may be used to make conserve. In fact, 
a little ingenuity on the part of the housewife and familiarity with 
general preserving methods will enable her to make many kinds of 
excellent conserves, even though she may not have a definite rule or 
recipe to cover the use of the particular material that happens to be 
on hand. 

61. Strawberry-and-Plneapple Conserve^ — The combina- 
tion of strawberries and pineapple is an excellent one. The accom- 
panying recipe shows how to combine these fruits to make a most 
appetizing conserve. 

Strawberry-and-Pineapple Conserve 

2 qt. strawberries 1 c. hot water 

1 large pineapple 2J lb. sugar 

Prepare the strawberries as for canning. Peel and slice the pine- 
apple, remove the eyes, and cut into small pieces. Add the water to 
the sugar in a preserving kettle, and allow it to come to a boil. Drop 
the pieces of pineapple into the sirup and cook them until they are 
tender. To this add the strawberries and cook for 5 or 10 minutes 
longer. The conserve should then be sufficiently cooked to put into 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 27 

the jars. If the juice seems too thin, fill the jars, which should be 
hot sterilized ones, about three-fourths full of the fruit, and then 
return the sirup to the heat and boil it until it is the right consistency. 
Remove the boiling sirup from the stove, and pour it over the fruit 
in the jars until they are full. Allow the conserve to cool, and then 
seal, first with paraffin and then with metal or paper covers. Label 
each glass and set away for future use. 

62. Straveberry-and-Rhubarb Conserve. — Rhubarb com- 
bines very well with either strawberries or pineapple. The accom- 
panying recipe is for strawberries and rhubarb, but if pineapple is 
desired, it may be substituted for the strawberries in the same 
quantity. 

Strawberry-and-Rhubarb Conserve 

2 qt. strawberries 1^ c. hot water 

1^ qt. rhubarb 3 lb. sugar 

Prepare the strawberries as for canning. Cut the rhubarb, which 
should be very tender, into cubes without removing the skin. Add 
the water to the sugar, and bring to a rapid boil in a preserving 
kettle. Put the rhubarb and strawberries into this sirup, and cook 
for at least 15 minutes. Pour into hot sterilized glasses, and when 
cool seal in the usual way. Label and store. 

63. Pineapple-and-Apricot Conserve. — No more delicious 
conserve can be made than pineapple-and-apricot conserve. The 
tartness of the apricots gives a flavor that is pleasing to most 
persons. 

Pineapple-and-Apricot Conserve 

2 qt. apricots 1 c. hot water 

1 large pineapple 2| lb. sugar 

Wash the apricots, plunge them into boiling water to remove the 
skins, and then cut into quarters. Peel and slice the pineapple, 
remove the eyes, and cut into cubes. Add the water to the sugar 
in a preserving kettle, and bring to the boiling point. Add the pine- 
apple to the sirup, and cook until tender. Then drop in the apricots 
and boil several minutes longer. Have hot sterilized glasses ready, 
fill them with the conserve, and when cool seal in the usual way. 
Before putting the glasses away, label each one neatly. 

64. Crab-Apple-and-Orange Conserve. — It is a good idea 
to make crab-apple-and-orange conserve at the same time that crab- 
apple jelly is made, for the pulp that remains after extracting the 



28 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

juice may be utilized for the conserve. However, if it is desired to 
make it at some ottier time, fresh pulp can be prepared for the 
purpose. 

Crab-Apple-and-Orange Conserve 

1 qt. crab-apple pulp 8 oranges 
3 lb. sugar 
To the crab-apple pulp, add the sugar, and place over the fire to 
boil. Peel the oranges, scoop out the white portion from the peel- 
ings, cut the peelings into thin strips, and add to the crab-apple pulp. 
Remove the pulp of the orange from the skins and from between 
the sections, cut it into small pieces, and add to the boiling mixture 
a few minutes before it is removed from the stove. When it has 
cooked thick, pour into hot sterilized glasses. Cool and then seal 
and label. 

65. Plum Conserve. — A rather unusual conserve is made by 
combining raisins and English walnut meats with plums. The 
accompanying recipe gives directions for the preparation of this 
conserve. 

Plum Conserve 

4 qt. plums 1 lb. raisins 

1 c. hot water 2 c. English walnut meats 

2 lb. sugar 

Wash the plums, cut them in half, and remove the seeds. Add 
the water to the sugar, place over the fire in a preserving kettle, and 
stir until the mixture comes to a rapid boil. Wash the raisins, which 
should be seeded, add them with the plums to the sirup, and cook 
until the mixture is the consistency of jelly. Just before removing 
from the stove, add the nut meats. Pour the mixture into hot steril- 
ized glasses, cool, seal, and label. If very sour plums are used, 
increase the amount of sugar. 

66. Clierry-and.-Pineapple Conserve. — Cherries combine 
very well with pineapple in a conserve. Sweet cherries should, if 
possible, be used for this purpose. 

Cherry-and-Pineapple Conserve 

2 qt. sweet cherries 2 lb. sugar 

1 pineapple 1 c. hot water 

Wash, stem, and seed the cherries. Slice and peel the pineapple 

and remove the eyes. Put the sugar and water over the fire in a 

preserving kettle, and stir until the sirup comes to the boiling point. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 29 

To this sirup add the pineapple and the cherries and cook until the 
juice is very thick. Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cool, seal, and 
label. 

67. Red-Raspberry-and-Currant Conserve. — ^A conserve 
having a very attractive color and a most appetizing flavor is made 
by combining red raspberries with red currants. 

Red-Raspberry-and-Currant Conserve 

3 qt. red raspberries 1 c. hot water 

1 qt. red currants 2^ lb. sugar 

Look the raspberries over carefully, and remove any that show 
signs of spoiling. Wash the currants and stem them. ■ Add the 
water to the sugar and put the mixture over the fire to boil. Add 
the currants to this, and stir until the mixture comes to the boiling 
point. Boil for several minutes, or until the mixture begins to 
thicken, and then add the red raspberries. Continue to boil for 2 or 
3 minutes longer. Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cool, seal, and 
label. 

68. Carrot Conserve.- — Conserve made from carrots will be 
found to be surprisingly delicious, and it has the added advantage 
of being inexpensive. 

Carrot Conserve 

1^ qt. cooked cut carrots 2 c. hot water 

Rind of 2 lemons Juice of 3 lemons 

5 c. sugar 

Boil the carrots until tender and chop or put through a grinder 
with the lemon rind. Then mix with the sugar, water, and lemon 
juice, and boil for about ^ hour or until thick. Put into hot sterilized 
glasses, cool, seal, and label. 



MARMALADES 



69. Marmalades are a form of preserves that differ from the 
other varieties more in the nature of the fruit used than in any other 
respect. For marmalades, large fruits are generally used, and, as a 
rule, the fruits are left in sections or in comparatively large pieces. 
The preparation of this food, however, differs in no way from pre- 
serves proper and conserves, the processes of cooking, sealing, stor- 
ing, etc. being practically the same. 



30 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

70. Orange Marmalade. — Oranges combined with half as 
many lemons make a marmalade that most persons like. In fact, 
orange marmalade is probably made more often than any other kind. 

Orange Marmalade 

12 oranges IJ qt. hot water 

6 lemons 5 lb. sugar 

Peel the oranges and the lemons in the same way an apple would 
be peeled, inserting the knife deep enough to cut through the skin 
covering the sections. Remove the contents of the sections and 
squeeze out any juice that may remain in the thin skin. Remove the 
white material from the inside of the peeling, and cut the yellow 
portion that remains into thin strips. Add the water to the skins 
and simmer slowly for 1 hour. At the end of this time, add the 
sugar and the orange and the lemon pulp, and boil until the mix- 
ture is thick. Pour into hot, sterilized glasses, cool, and then seal 
and label. 

71. Orange-and-Rhubarb Marmalade. — If a somewhat 
different flavor is desired in a marmalade, rhubarb instead of lemons 
may be used with oranges, as shown in the accompanying recipe. 

Orange-and-Rhubarb Marmalade 

8 oranges 4 lb. sugar 

1 qt. hot water 3 qt. rhubarb cut into pieces 
Prepare the oranges as for orange marmalade. Slowly cook the 
yellow part of the skin in 1 quart of water for ^ hour. To this add 
the sugar arid the rhubarb, and cook slowly until it is quite thick. 
Stir in the orange pulp and cook until the mixture is again thick. 
Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cool, seal, and label. 

72. Quince Marmalade. — Quinces cut into quarters, cooked, 
and then forced through a sieve make an exceptionally good marma- 
lade, so far as both flavor and color are concerned. No other fruit 
need be used with the quinces, as they have enough flavor in 
themselves. 

Quince Marmalade 

4 qt. quartered quinces 4 lb. sugar 

1 qt. hot water 

Wipe the fuzz from the quinces, wash, quarter, and remove the 

cores, but do not peel. Put over the fire in a preserving kettle with 

the water. Cook until the quinces are soft, remove from the fire, 

and mash through a sieve. Add the sugar to the quince pulp, replace 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING. AND PICKLING 31 

on the fire, and cook until the mixture is thick, stirring constantly 
to prevent burning. Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cool, seal, and 
label. 

73. Grape Marmalade. — The pulp and skins of grapes are 
especially satisfactory for marmalade. In fact, most persons who 
are fond of grapes find marmalade of this kind very appetizing. 

Grape Marmalade 

4 qt. stemmed grapes 3 lb. sugar 

2 c. hot water 
Separate the pulp of the grapes from the skins, put it into a pre- 
serving kettle with the water, and heat to the boiling point. Cook 
slowly until the seeds can be separated from the pulp, and then 
remove the seeds by pressing the pulp through a sieve. Return to 
the preserving kettle with the grape skins. Add the sugar, and cook 
the mixture slowly until it is thick, stirring constantly to prevent 
scorching. Care must be taken not to cook it too long, as the marma- 
lade becomes quite stiff. Pour into hot, sterilized glasses, cool, seal, 
and label. 

74. Orange-and-Plneapple Marmalade. — No better com- 
bination can be secured than oranges and pineapple. To make 
marmalade, both fruits are cut into small pieces and then cooked 
in a thick sirup. 

Orange-and-Pineapple Marmalade 

8 oranges 2 pineapples 

2 c. hot water 4 lb. sugar 

Wash the oranges, cut skins and all into small pieces, remove the 
seeds, and boil slowly in the water until the skins are soft. Prepare 
the pineapples by peeling them, removing the eyes, and then shred- 
ding 'or cutting into very small pieces. Add the pineapple to the 
orange, stir in sugar, and continue to boil until the juice is at the 
jelly stage. Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cool, seal, and label. 



JAMS 



75. Jam is similar to preserves, except that the fruit used is 
made into a pulp before it is cooked with the sugar or after a part 
of the cooking is done. As a rule, only whole small fruits are used 
for jams, but the larger fruits can be utilized for this purpose by 
being cut fine and made into a pulp. When small fruits are used, 
w I— c 5— n 



32 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

part or all of the seeds are sometimes removed, but generally the 
seeds are allowed to remain if they are not too large. Jam is made 
thick by long boiling, and when done is usually quite smooth. A 
precaution, however, that should always be taken is not to cook it 
too long, for jam is very unappetizing if it is too thick. 

Fruit may be purchased purposely for jam, but for the most part, 
this form of preserve is made of imperfect or very ripe fruits that 
are not suitable for canning, preserves, and other processes that 
require almost perfect fruit. If this point is kept in mind, it will be 
possible, during the canning season, to make into a delicious jam 
fruit that would otherwise be wasted. 

76. Strawberry Jam. — As strawberries have very small 
seeds, this fruit makes an excellent jam. 

Strawberry Jam 
4 qt. strawberries 2 lb. sugar 

Wash and hull the strawberries. Then mash them in a preserving 
kettle and add the sugar to them. Place over the fire, and boil 
slowly until the mixture becomes thick, stirring frequently to pre- 
vent the jam from sticking to the kettle and scorching. When the 
jam is cooked to the proper consistency, the juice should test as for 
jelly. Pour the mixture into hot sterilized glasses, cool, and then 
seal and label. 

77. Raspberry Jam. — Both red and black raspberries are 
much used for jam. Some persons like to remove the seeds from 
raspberry jam, but as very little pulp remains after the seeds are 
taken out, this plan is not recommended. 

Raspberry Jam 
4 qt. raspberries 2 lb. sugar 

Look over the raspberries carefully and then wash. Put them 
into a preserving kettle with the sugar. Heat to the boiling point, 
and cook slowly for a few minutes. Then mash the berries to a 
pulp, and continue to cook until the mixture thickens and the juice 
tests as for jelly. Pour into hot sterilized jars, cool, seal, and label. 

78. Green-Gage Jam. — Green gages make a smooth, tart jam 
that appeals to most persons. The seeds of the plums are, of course, 
removed, but the skins are allowed to remain in the jam. 

Green-Gage Jam 

4 qt. green-gage plums IJ c. hot water 

4 lb. sugar 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 33 

Wash the plums, cut them in half, and remove the seeds, but not 
the skins. Dissolve the sugar in the water over the fire, and when it 
comes to the boiling point, add the plums. Cook slowly until the 
plums are mushy and the entire mixture is thick. Pour into steril- 
ized glasses, cool, seal, and label. If sweet plums are used, decrease 
the quantity of sugar. 

79. Gooseberry Jam. — ^When gooseberries are well ripened, 
they make very good jam. As this fruit is rather tart, considerable 
sugar must be used if a sweet jam is desired. 

Gooseberry Jam 
4 qt. gooseberries 3 lb. sugar 

Remove the stems and blossom ends from the gooseberries and 
wash thoroughly. Add the sugar to the berries in a preserving 
kettle. Bring to a rapid boil, cook for a few minutes, and then mash 
the berries to a pulp. Cook until the mixture thickens and tests as 
for jelly. Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cool, seal, and label. 

80. Blackberry Jam. — Probably no jam is so well liked as 
that made from blackberries. Some varieties of these are large in 
size and contain considerable pulp in proportion to seeds. These are 
especially suitable for jam. 

Blackberry Jam 

4 qt. blackberries 2 lb. sugar 

i c. hot water 
Wash the berries thoroughly, and put them over the fire with the 
water. Bring to the boiling point, and boil slowly for a few minutes. 
Then mash the berries, add the sugar, and cook the mixture until, 
when tested, it is of a jelly-like consistency. Pour into hot, sterilized 
glasses, cool, and label. 



BUTTERS 



81. Fruit butters are a form of preserves similar to jams, 
and are used in the place of preserves, jams, conserves, or marma- 
lades. The fruit used for this purpose, which may be either large 
or small, is usually very ripe and somewhat soft. Therefore, as in 
the case of jams, imperfect fruits that are not suitable for other 
purposes can be used very well for butters. 

Butters made from fruits differ from jams in that both the skins 
and seeds are always removed. The completed mixture is smooth 



34 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

and thick, having been made thick by long boiling and evaporation, 
rather than by the addition of large quantities of sugar. In fact, less 
sugar is used for butters proportionately than for any other pre- 
served fruit. Spices are generally used in butters, so that the mix- 
ture is very highly flavored. 

To prevent butters from scorching, they should be stirred con- 
stantly for a long period of time. This stirring becomes very tire- 
some, but it should not be stopped or the mixture is certain to scorch. 
If they are properly cooked, butters keep well with very little care 
in storage. Crocks are generally used for the storage of butters, 
but glasses or jars may be substituted. 

82. Apple Butter. — Apples are very often made into butter, 
but for this purpose sour apples that will cook soft should be 
selected. If the procedure explained in the accompanying recipe is 
followed, very good results may be expected. 

Apple Butter 

4 qt. apples 3 tsp. cinnamon 

8 qt. cider 1 tsp. cloves 

1 lb. sugar 1 tsp. allspice 

Peel the apples and quarter them. Boil the cider until it is 
reduced half. Add the apples to the cider, and cook slowly for about 
3 hours, or until they are mushy, stirring constantly with a wooden 
spoon to prevent the apples from sticking to the bottom of the 
kettle. At the end of this time, the mixture should be thick and 
smooth and dark in color. If it gets too thick, more cider can be 
added. About 1 hour before the cooking is completed, add the sugar 
and the spices. Even greater care must be exercised from this time 
on to prevent scorching. If, after cooking 3 hours, the mixture is 
not sufficiently thick, continue to cook until more of the moisture 
is evaporated. Have hot sterilized glasses or crocks ready, fill them 
with the butter, cool, and seal. 

83. Peach Butter.- — Peaches are especially satisfactory when 
made into butter. This fruit does not require such long cooking as 
apples, as will be seen in the accompanying recipe. 

Peach Butter 

4 qt. peaches 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. hot water ^ tsp. cloves 

1 lb. sugar 
Wash the peaches, rub them to remove the fuzz, cut them in half, 
and take out the seeds. Measure the peaches and put them with the 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 35 

water into the preserving kettle, bring them to a boil, and cook until 
they are thoroughly softened. Then press them through a sieve or 
a colander, return the pulp to the preserving kettle, and add the 
sugar and the spices. Cook slowly for 1 or 2 hours, or until it has 
become a rich dark, clear color. Pour the butter into hot sterilized 
glasses or crocks, cool, and seal. 

84. Pear Butter. — An appetizing fruit butter can be made 
from pears in the same way that peach butter is made. 

Pear Butter 

4 qt. pears, quartered 2 tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. hot water 1 tsp. cloves 

1 lb. sugar 
Wash, cut, and core the pears, but do not peel them. Cut them 
into quarters, and put the (Quarters into a preserving kettle with the 
water. Bring to the boiling point, and boil until soft or mushy. 
Remove from the kettle and force through a sieve or a colander. 
To the pulp, add the sugar and spices, return to the kettle, and cook 
slowly for about 2 hours, stirring constantly to prevent scorching. 
If 2 hours is not sufficient to cook the mixture dry, cook a little 
longer. Pour into hot sterilized glasses or jars, cool, and seal. 

85. PlTim Butter. — Another very good way in which to pre- 
serve plums for future use is to make butter of them. The accom- 
panying recipe explains the correct procedure for butter of this kind. 

Plum Butter 

4 qt. plums 2 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. hot water ^ tsp. cloves 

3 lb. sugar 

Wash the plums, cut them in half, and remove the seeds. Put the 
plums with the water into a preserving kettle, and boil until they 
are soft. Press them through a sieve or a colander, return to the 
preserving kettle, and add the sugar and spices. Boil until the mix- 
ture is thick and jelly-like, stirring constantly to prevent scorching. 
Pour into hot sterilized crocks or glasses, cool, and seal. If very 
sour plums are used, increase the amount of sugar. 



36 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 



PICKLING 



PRINCIPLES OF PICKLING 

86. Pickling consists in preserving fruits and vegetables in 
vinegar or brine. Each of these liquids acts as a preservative, so 
that the receptacles, or containers, for the food do not have to be 
sealed air-tight, nor does the preserved food require much care in 
order to have it keep perfectly. 

The effect of the pickling liquids on both fruits and vegetables 
is very similar. The salt in the brine or the vinegar hardens the 
cellulose of the foods to such an extent that they are impervious to 
the action of bacteria. While this permits the foods to keep well, 
it also makes them difficult to digest, a fact that must be remem- 
bered when pickled foods are included in the diet. 

87. The procedure in pickling is simple. After the fruit or 
vegetable is cleaned and prepared in the way desired, it is merely 
a matter of placing the food in sterilized jars or crocks, pouring 
the hot preserving liquid over it, allowing it to cool, and then storing 
it. In some cases the food is cooked, and in others it is not. As a 
rule, spices of some kind or other are added, both to aid in preserv- 
ing and to impart flavor. 

88. Practically all large fruits and many vegetables are pickled, 
as is shown in the recipes that follow. Foods preserved by pickling 
are known as either pickles or relishes. While both products are 
similar in many respects, relishes are distinguished from pickles in 
that, as a rule, they are made up from more than one kind of fruit 
or vegetable and usually the pieces are cut or chopped and not put 
up whole. Often the foods in relishes are chopped or cut so fine 
as to make it almost impossible to tell what the fruit or vegetable 
was originally. 

The food value of both these products is not extremely high, unless 
a great quantity of sugar is used in the pickling. This is sometimes 
the case with pickled peaches or pears, but seldom if ever with 
pickled vegetables. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING. PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 37 



RECIPES FOR PICKLING 



PICKLES 

89. Small Cucumber Pickles. — Perhaps the most common 
pickles are small cucumbers pickled according to the accompanying 
recipe. Such pickles meet with favor and serve very well as appe- 
tizers. The cucumbers selected should be small, so that they will 
be solid all the way through. 

Small Cucumber Pickles 

1 gal. water 1 lb. light-brown sugar 

4 c. coarse salt i tsp. mustard seed 

200 small cucumbers 1 tsp. salt 

i gal. vinegar 1 oz. stick cinnamon 

14 tsp. celery seed 1 tsp. whole cloves 

Make a brine of the water and the coarse salt, pour it over the 
cucumbers, and allow them to stand for 24 hours. At the end of 
this time, pour off the brine, wash the pickles in cold water, and 
place them into crocks. Heat the vinegar, add the celery seed, sugar, 
mustard seed, salt, cinnamon, and cloves, and bring the mixture to 
the boiling point. Pour this over the pickles in the crocks, cover 
closely while hot, and place in storage. If the pickles are desired 
sweet, add more brown sugar to the mixture. 

90. Sliced-Cucumber PicMes. — Large cucumbers cut into 
slices may be pickled in practically the same way as small cucumbers. 
At times, when small cucumbers are hard to get, large cucumbers 
will take their place very well. In fact, some housewives prefer 
sliced cucumber pickles to the small ones. 

Sliced-Cucumber Pickles 

1 gal. sliced cucumbers 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. coarse salt 1 tsp. cloves 

l|qt. vinegar 4 onions, chopped 

1 pt. water 1 c. brown sugar 

1 tsp. pepper 1 Tb. salt 
3 tsp. mustard 

Select rather large cucumbers. Wash and peel them and cut into 
i-inch slices. Sprinkle well with salt, and mix the salt among the 
layers of cucumbers. Allow this to stand for 24 hours ; then drain 
and wash in clear cold water. To the vinegar and water add the 



38 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

spices, onion, sugar, and salt. Heat this to the boiling point, pour 
over the sliced cucumbers, and pack them into jars or crocks. Seal 
while hot and store. 

91. Cucumbers in Brine. — Cucumbers may also be preserved 
in brine, stored, and pickled in vinegar later in any quantity, as 
desired. 

Pour 1 gallon of boiling water over 4 cupfuls of coarse salt. This 
should make brine that is heavy enough to support an egg. Wash 
cucumbers of any desired size, put them into a sterilized crock, in 
layers, and pour the brine, which has been allowed to cool, over the 
cucumbers until they are entirely covered. Co\rer the top of the 
crock well and store. Cucumbers preserved in this way may be 
taken from the brine at any time and pickled. To do this, soak them 
in fresh water to remove the salty taste. The fresh water may have 
to be poured off and replaced several times. After they have been 
freshened sufficiently, pickle them in vinegar and season them in 
any desirable way. 

92. Pickled Beans. — String beans that are pickled make a 
good relish to serve with meals. Unlike cucumbers that are pickled, 
the beans are cooked before the preserving liquid is added. The 
accompanying recipe is for either wax or green beans. 

Pickled Beans 

4 qt. beans i tsp. pepper 

14 qt. vinegar 1 tsp. allspice 

1 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. cloves 

Select large, firm, tender wax or green beans. Cover them with 
water to which has been added 1 level teaspoonful of salt to each 
quart and put them over the fire to cook. Boil the beans until they 
can be pierced with a fork, remove from the fire, drain, and pack 
into jars or crocks. To the vinegar add the sugar, salt, and spices. 
Bring this mixture to the boiling point, and pour it over the beans 
in the jars or crocks, filling them completely or covering the beans 
well. Close tight and store. 

93. Pickled. Beets. — Pickled beets meet with much favor as a 
relish. Like pickled beans, they must be cooked before they can 
be pickled ; also, unless they are very small, they should be sliced 
before pickling as the recipe points out. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 39 

Pickled Beets 

4 qt. red beets i tsp. pepper 

2 qt. vinegar 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 c. brown sugar 1 tsp. cloves 

1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. allspice 

Cut the tops from the red beets, leaving 1 inch of the stems and 
the roots attached. Scrub well with a vegetable brush, and put to 
cook in boiling water. Cook until the beets are tender enough to be 
pierced with a fork. Pour off the hot water and run cold water over 
them. Remove the roots and stems, and cut into slices of any desired 
thickness or into dice, if preferred. Pack into jars or crocks. Then 
bring the vinegar to a boil, and to it add the sugar, salt, and spices. 
Pour this hot mixture over the beets. Seal the beets while hot, cool, 
and store. 

94. Pickled Caullflovrer. — Cauliflower is another vegetable 
that lends itself well to pickling. This food must be cooked, too, 
before pickling; and to have it just right for packing into the con- 
tainers, it requires particular attention in cooking. 

Pickled Cauliflower 

4 qt. cauliflower broken into ^ tsp. pepper 

pieces 1 qt. vinegar 

2 c. brown sugar 1 pt. water 

1 Tb. salt 
Select firm heads of cauliflower and break them into sections or 
flowerets. Immerse these in cold water to which has been added 
1 teaspoonful of salt to the quart. Allow the cauliflower to stand 
for 1 hour in the salt water. Remove from the water, and put over 
the fire to cook in salt water of the same proportion as that used 
for soaking. Cook until the cauliflower is quite tender, but not so 
tender as it would be cooked to serve at the table. If this is done, 
the cauliflower will darken and break into pieces. It should be firm 
enough not to crush or break easily when it is packed into the jars. 
When properly cooked, pack closely into jars, add the sugar, salt, 
and pepper to the vinegar and water, heat to the boiling point, and 
pour this liquid over the cauliflower, completely covering it. Seal 
while hot, allow to cool, and store. 

95. Plclcled. Onions. — Pickled onions are well liked by many. 
For pickling purposes, medium small onions of uniform size are 
most suitable. Owing to their nature, onions cannot be pickled so 



40 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

quickly as some of the vegetables mentioned, but, otherwise, the 
work is done in practically the same way. 

Pickled Onions 
4 qt. onions 2 qt. spiced vinegar 
Select onions that are as nearly the same size as possible. Peel 
them and let them stand in fresh water for 24 hours. Pour off this 
water, and over the onions pour a brine made by adding 2 cupfuls 
of salt to each gallon of water. Allow them to stand in this brine 
for 3 days, changing the brine once during this time. Remove the 
onions from the brine, and freshen in cold water for 2 hours. Drain 
the onions and cook them in the spiced vinegar for J hour. Any of 
the spiced vinegars given for the other vegetables may be used. 
After cooking, pack the onions with the liquid into jars, seal, cool, 
and store. 

96. Pickled Peaches. — Among the fruits that may be pickled, 
peaches seem to meet with great favor. They, as well as pickled 
pears and pickled crab apples, make a relish that adds variety to the 
foods that are served in the home from day to day. The pickling 
process does not differ materially from that applied to vegetables, as 
the accompanying recipe shows. 

Pickled Peaches 

2 lb. brown sugar 4 qt. peaches 

1 qt. vinegar 2 Tb. cloves 

1 oz. stick cinnamon 
Boil the sugar, vinegar, and cinnamon together until they begin to 
look sirupy. Wash the peaches and rub off the fuzz. Stick one or 
two cloves into each peach, and drop the peaches into the sirup. 
Cook them until they may be easily pierced with a fork. Put them 
into jars, pour the sirup over them, filling each jar, and seal while 
hot. Allow the jars to cool and store. The peaches may be peeled 
if desired. It may also be more convenient to cook only part of the 
peaches in the sirup at one time, cooking the remainder after these 
have been taken out and put into jars. 

97. Pickled Pears. — Pears also lend themselves readily to 
pickling. Specific directions are not given here, because they are 
pickled in exactly the same way as peaches. The pears may be 
peeled or not, as desired. 

98. Pickled Crab Apples. — Crab apples that are to be pickled 
should preferably be of a large variety. The directions given for 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 41 

pickling peaches apply also to this fruit. The crab apples should be 
examined carefully to make certain that they contain no worms. 
Also, the stems should be left on, and they should be washed thor- 
oughly with the blossom ends cut out. 



RBLISHDS 



99. Mustard Pickles. — Among the relishes, mustard pickles 
are very popular. This relish is made up of a large number of vege- 
tables, namely, cucumbers, string beans, green peppers, red sweet 
peppers, onions, green tomatoes, cauliflower, and green Lima beans. 

Mustard Pickles 

1 pt. small cucumbers 2 c. sugar 

1 qt. string beans 4 Tb. powdered mustard 

4 green peppers 2 tsp. tumeric 

4 red sweet peppers 1 Tb. celery seed 

1 pt. small onions 1 Tb. salt 

1 pt. green tomatoes ^ tsp. pepper 

1 pt. cauliflower 1 qt. vinegar 

1 c. green Lima beans 1 pt. water 

1 c. flour 

Wash all the vegetables and prepare them by cutting them into 
the desired sizes. The onions and cucumbers should be of a size that 
will not require cutting. Put all the vegetables together, cover them 
with salt water made by adding 1 cupful of salt to each 2 quarts of 
water, and allow them to stand in this for 24 hours. At the end of 
this time, drain off the brine and freshen the vegetables in clear 
water for about 2 hours. Mix the dry ingredients together, heat the 
vinegar and water, and pour it over all. Bring this mixture to the 
boiling point, and pour it over the vegetables. Fill the jars with the 
hot mixture, seal, cool, and store. 

100. Spanisli Relish. — Another satisfactory relish made up 
of a large number of vegetables and spices is Spanish relish. In its 
preparation, however, the vegetables are not chopped very fine. 

Spanish Relish 

12 green sweet peppers 1 lb. brown sugar 

12 red sweet peppers i tsp. black pepper 

12 medium-sized onions i tsp. Cayenne pepper 

12 green tomatoes 1 Tb. mustard seed 

2 medium-sized heads of 1 tsp. celery seed 

cabbage li qt. vinegar 

1 tsp. salt 



42 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING §23 

Wash the vegetables and chop them into coarse pieces. Covef 
them with salt water made by adding 1 cupful of salt to a gallon of 
water and allow them to stand in this brine for 6 to 8 hours. At the 
end of this time, drain off the salt water and wash with clear water. 
Add the salt, sugar, and spices to the vinegar, and bring this mixture 
to the boiling point. Then pour it over the mixture of vegetables, 
pack all into sterilized crocks or jars, seal, cool, and store. 

101. Cliow Cbow. — Still another relish in which a variety of 
vegetables is used is chow chow. This relish is well and favorably 
known to housewives for the zest it imparts to meals. 

Chow Chow 

2 qt. small green tomatoes 1 Tb. salt 

6 green peppers 2 c. brown sugar 

6 red peppers i tsp. black pepper 

1 small head of cabbage 2 Tb. mustard seed 

2 bunches celery 2 Tb. tumeric 
1 pt. small onions 2 Tb. allspice 
1 qt. small cucumbers 1 Tb. cloves 

3 qt. vinegar 1 Tb. cinnamon 

Wash the vegetables and cut them into very small pieces. Cover 
them with salt water made by adding 1 cupful of salt to a gallon of 
water, and let thern stand in this for 6 to 8 hours. Drain at the end 
of this time, and wash with cold water. Heat the vinegar, and to it 
add the salt, sugar, and spices. Add this to the vegetables and cook 
until they are soft. Pack into sterilized jars, seal while hot, cool, 
and store. 

102. Beet Relisli. — A relish in which cooked beets are the 
principal ingredient may be made up from the accompanying recipe. 
As pickled beets in any form are usually well liked, this relish may be 
put up for the variety it offers. 

Beet Relish 

1 qt. cooked beets, chopped ^ c. sugar 

1 c. horseradish root grated 1 tsp. cinnamon 

1 c. vinegar 1 tsp. cloves 

1 Tb. salt 
Cook the beets in the usual way. When they are tender, remove 
the skins and chop quite fine. Add the grated horseTadish to the 
beets. To the vinegar, add the salt, sugar, and spices and heat to 
the boiling point. Pour this mixture over the vegetable mixture, pack 
all into hot sterilized jars, seal, cool, and store. 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 43 

103. Chilli Sauce. — Chilli sauce is a well-known relish in 
which ripe tomatoes, red or green peppers, and onions are combined 
with spices and vinegar. Although not so many vegetables are used 
in this relish as in those which precede, it merits a place among the 
canned foods prepared for future use. 

Chilli Sauce 

2 qt. medium-sized ripe tomatoes -J c. sugar 

2 red or green peppers, finely 1 Tb. salt 

chopped 1 tsp. ground cloves 

2 onions, finely chopped 2 tsp. ground cinnamon 

2 c. vinegar 2 tsp. celery salt 

Blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skins loosen. Then 
remove the skins and stem ends, chop the tomatoes, and put them 
into a preserving kettle with the chopped peppers and chopped 
onions. Heat gradually to the boiling point, add the vinegar, sugar, 
salt, and spices, and cook slowly until the mixture is quite thick. 
This will require from 2 to 3 hours. Then put the hot sauce into 
sterilized bottles or jars, seal, allow them to cool, and store. 

104. Green-Tomato Pickle. — A pleasing relish may be made 
from green tomatoes after the frost has come in the fall and toma- 
toes on the vines will not mature. 

Green-Tomato Pickle 

3 qt. green tomatoes, sliced 2 Tb. cinnamon 

2 qt. onions, sliced 2 tsp. cloves 

1 qt. vinegar 2 tsp. allspice 

1 pt. water 3 Tb. celery salt 

1 Tb. salt 1 Tb. mustard seed 
1| lb. brown sugar 

Select firm green tomatoes, wash them, and slice them. Peel the 
onions, and slice them into slices of the same thickness as the toma- 
toes, about ^ inch being perhaps the most desirable. Mix the 
tomatoes and onions, sprinkle them generously with salt, and allow 
them to stand for 24 hours. At the end of this time, pour off any 
excess liquid ; then pour a small quantity of fresh water over them, 
and drain this off, also. To the vinegar and water, add the salt, 
sugar, and spices. Heat this mixture to the boiling point, pour it 
over the mixture of tomatoes and onions, and put into jars. Seal 
the jars while hot, allow them to cool, and then store. 

105. Ripe-Tomato Pickle. — Ripe tomatoes form the basis of 
another relish known as ripe-tomato pickle. Like other relishes in 



44 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING § 23 

which tomatoes are used, this relish is very satisfactory for meals 
in which pickles or relishes may be served. 
Ripe-Tomato Pickle 
2 qt. ripe tomatoes 1 Tb. salt 

2 bunches celery 1 c. sugar 

3 red sweet peppers 1 Tb. mustard seed 
3 medium-sized onions 1 Tb. ground cloves 

1 qt. vinegar 1 Tb. ground cinnamon 

Blanch the tomatoes until the skins loosen, and then peel them. 
Remove the stem ends, and cut the tomatoes into quite large pieces. 
Chop the celery, peppers, and onions coarsely. Cook together until 
they are almost tender. Pour oflf the water. Mix all the vegetables 
together, and pack them into a sterilized stone jar. To the vinegar, 
add the salt, sugar and spices. Boil and pour this mixture over the 
vegetables in the stone jar, cover, and allow this to stand at least 
2 weeks before using. 

106. Tomato Catsup. — As a condiment to be served with 
meats, oysters, fish, baked beans, and other foods high in protein, 
catsup finds considerable use. This relish, which is also called cat- 
chup and ketchup, may be made from both vegetables and fruits, but 
that made from tomatoes seems to be the most desirable to the 
majority. 

Tomato Catsup 
i bu. ripe tomatoes 1 Tb. ground cinnamon 

I c. salt 1 tsp. Cayenne pepper 

1 lb. brown sugar 2 Tb. celery salt 

2 qt. vinegar 2 tsp. ground cloves 

Remove the skins from the tomatoes by blanching and cut out the 
stem ends. Then slice the tomatoes, put them into a preserving 
kettle over the fire, cook them until they are soft, and force them 
through a sieve to remove the seeds. Return the pulp to the preserv- 
ing kettle, add the salt, sugar, vinegar, and spices, and cook the 
mixture until it is reduced at least half in quantity. Pour into steril- 
ized bottles, seal, cool, and store. 

107. Grape Catsup. — Perhaps the best-known catsup made 
from fruit is grape catsup. Its uses are practically the same as those 
of tomato catsup, and it is made in much the same way. 

Grape Catsup 
4 qt. Concord grapes 2 Tb. cinnamon 
3 c. vinegar 1 tsp. cloves 

1 lb. brown sugar 1 tsp. allspice 



§ 23 JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND PICKLING 45 

Put the grapes to cook with the vinegar. When they have cooked 
soft enough, press through a sieve to remove the seeds and skins. 
Add the sugar and spices, and cook until the mixture is rather 
thick. Stir constantly to prevent scorching. Pour into sterilized 
bottles, seal, cool, and store. 

108. Pickled Watermelou Rind. — An unusual, though 
highly satisfactory, relish may be made from the rind of melons. 
The accompanying recipe is for pickled watermelon rind, but if 
desired muskmelon rind may be substituted. In either case, only the 
white part of the rind should be used. 

Pickled Watermelon Rind 

4 qt. watermelon rind cut into 1 c. water 

strips or cubes 3 lb. sugar 

1 oz. stick cinnamon 1 qt. vinegar 

1 Tb. cloves 
Prepare the rind by cutting off the green skin and all the pink 
flesh on the inside. Cut this rind into strips 1 inch wide and 1 inch 
thick, and then into cubes, if desired. Cook in water until the rind 
may be easily pierced with a fork. Add the spices, water, and sugar 
to the vinegar, and boil until it becomes sirupy. Add to this sirup 
the cooked watermelon rind and bring to the boiling point. Then 
pack into sterilized jars, seal, cool, and store. 

109. Crab-Apple Relisli. — Among the fruits, crab apples 
lend themselves best to the making of relish. By the addition of 
oranges, raisins, and spices, as in this recipe, crab-apple relish is 
made very desirable and agreeable to the taste. 

Crab-Apple Relish 

4 qt. crab apples 2 lb. Sultana raisins 

3 c. vinegar 1 Tb. powdered cinnamon 

4 oranges 1 tsp. cloves 
4 lb. brown sugar 1 tsp. allspice 

Wash the crab apples, remove the cores, and cut the apples into 
small pieces. Put them into a preserving kettle, add the vinegar, the 
oranges, peeled and sliced, the sugar, the raisins, and the spices. 
Cook all slowly until the apples are soft. Pour into sterilized jars 
or glasses, seal, cool, and store. 



JELLY MAKING, PRESERVING, AND 
PICKLING 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) (a) Give three reasons why the making and use of jelly has value. 
(6) When are pickles permissible in the diet? 

(2) What is necessary for the making of good jelly? 

(3) Mention some important points to consider in selecting fruit for jelly 
making. 

(4) (a) What is pectin? (6) Why are ripe fruits not so satisfactory for 
jelly making as partly green ones? 

(5) Give the test for pectin. 

(6) How may jelly be made from fruit juices that do not contain pectin? 

(7) Give the best method of extracting fruit juice for jelly. 

(8) What material is best for jelly bags? Why? 

(9) What is the general proportion of sugar and juice for making: 
(o) jelly from very sour fruits? (b) jelly from slightly sour fruits? 

(10) Give the method for making jelly by the mean-boiling method. 

(11) What is meant by : (a) short boiling ? (ft) long boiling? 

(12) Give two tests for determining when jelly has cooked sufficiently. 

(13) (a) How should glasses be prepared before filling them with jelly? 
(6) How are glasses closed for storing > 

(14) (a) What are preserves? (fc) What kind of fruits should be 
selected for preserves ? 

(15) Describe the best method of making preserves. 

(16) How do conserves differ from preserves? 

(17) How do marmalades differ from conserves? 

(18) Describe jam. 

(19) How does fruit butter differ from jams? 

(20) What are: (o) pickles? (6) relishes? 



CONFECTIONS 



NATURE AND COMPOSITION 



NATURE OF CONFECTIONS 

1. Confections are such sweetmeats as candy and similar 
articles, which have for their foundation sugar, sirup, honey, and 
the like. As is well known, the most important variety of confection 
is candy, and this is the one that is usually meant when the term 
confections is mentioned. Confections, however, are not so limited 
as might be imagined upon first thought, for many delicious dishes 
whose main ingredient is nuts, fruits, coconut, or pop corn are also 
placed in this class. To be sure, most of these contain sweetening 
material of some sort in greater or smaller quantities. Therefore, in 
its broadest sense, confections may be regarded as preparations hav- 
ing for their chief ingredient sugar or substances containing it, such 
as molasses, honey, etc., usually mixed with other food materials, 
such as nuts, fruits, chocolate, starches, and fats, to give them body 
and consistency, and flavored and colored in any desired way. 

2. The making of confections, and of candy in particular, is 
both a useful and a delightful pastime that can be indulged in even 
by those who are only slightly skilled. In fact, with a certain amount 
of knowledge of the methods used and a little practice, surprising 
results can be obtained by the amateur candy maker. Then, too, it 
is a comparatively simple matter to copy the confectioner's work. A 
considerable variety of candies can often be made from a simple 
foundation material if a little originality or ingenuity is applied. 

CO^VRiaHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHINCl COMPANY, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

Wl— C5— U 



2 CONFECTIONS § 24 

Since it is an easy matter to prepare foods of this kind and since 
they can be made at home more cheaply and of more tasty and whole- 
some materials, it is a decided advantage to make them rather than 
buy them, particularly if they are used extensively in the home. 
However, not so much fear need be felt now as formerly with regard 
to commercially made candies, for much has been done in recent 
years to compel the use of wholesome materials in candies, especially 
the cheaper ones that children are apt to buy. The pure-food laws 
require that no such adulterants as are not food materials and no 
harmful flavorings, colorings, nor alcoholic beverages be used in 
making confections. As can well be understood, this is a valuable 
protection. Consequently, at the present time, the harm, if any, 
resulting from eating candy comes from either the excessive or the 
wrong use of it. 

3. The taste for confections of all kinds is one that is acquired, 
and it is often developed to harmful extremes. Therefore, these 
foods, like most others, should be indulged in only in moderation. 
They will then prove not only valuable, but entirely unharmful. The 
greatest precaution that should be observed in their use is in giving 
them to children. Very young children should not have candy at all, 
it being much too concentrated for digestive organs that are used to 
handling only diluted food materials. As they grow older and their 
diet begins to include more foods, a small quantity of wholesome 
sweets will not be harmful if it is given at meal time. Adults with 
normal digestion may eat a reasonable amount of candy and other 
confections without injury. 

4. To assist in the making of confections in the home, the prin- 
ciples of candy making, as well as those which must be understood 
for the making of such other foods as are commonly called con- 
fections, are given in this Section. In addition, there are included 
explicit directions for the making of simple candies and confections 
and of some of the varieties that are more difficult to make. The 
various operations are not hard to perform, and good results may 
be expected if each step is carried out as directed. The operations 
requiring skill and dexterity, such as the coating of bonbons and 
chocolates, must be repeated several times if results that approach 
those of the professional confectioner are to be attained. Still, sur- 
prisingly good results may be obtained the first time the work is 
done if directions are followed explicitly. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 



COMPOSITION OF CONFECTIONS 

5. Carboliydrate in Confections. — So far as their composi- 
tion is concerned, confections are largely carbohydrate in the form 
of sugar. This food material may be one of several different varie- 
ties. As is well understood, the high percentage of carbohydrate, 
which in some cases may be very close to 100 per cent., greatly 
increases the food value of this variety of foods. Where the per- 
centage is very high, the candies are necessarily hard, for all or 
nearly all the moisture is driven off in the making. In this case, as 
in other foods, the more water there is present, the more reduced is 
the total food value. 

6. Fat in Confections. — To a certain extent, fat is found in 
these high-carbohydrate foods. It is supplied largely by the use of 
milk, condensed milk, cream, butter or butter substitutes, nuts, and 
chocolate. While these materials are usually added to produce a 
certain flavor or consistency, they form at the same time an ingredient 
that greatly increases the food value of the finished product. 

7. Protein in Confections. — Protein is not found extensively 
in confections unless nuts, chocolate, milk, or other foods containing 
it are used in their preparation. But, even then, sweets are usually 
eaten in such small quantities that the protein in them does not figure 
to any great extent, so that, at best, confections are not considered 
as a source of protein at any time. However, chocolate-coated nuts, 
as will readily be seen, are a rather high-protein food. 

8. Mineral Salts in Confections. — Refined sugar does not 
contain mineral salts, so that unless other ingredients containing this 
food substance are added, no mineral salts will be present in con- 
fections. It is true that some of the ingredients used, such as milk, 
fruits, nuts, molasses, honey, maple sirup, etc., contain certain min- 
erals ; but just as confections are not taken as a source of protein, so 
they are not characterized by the minerals in them. 



CONFECTIONS § 24 



CONFECTIOX BIAKING 



INGREDIENTS USED IN CONFECTIONS 



FOUNDATION MATERIALS 

9. Sugar, — The most important ingredient used in the making 
of confections is sugar. It is therefore well that the nature of this 
ingredient be thoroughly understood. Its chief commercial varieties 
are cane sugar and beet sugar, both of which produce the same 
results in cookery operations. W^hen sugar is mentioned as an 
ingredient, plain granulated sugar is meant unless it is otherwise 
stated. Whether this is cane or beet sugar makes no difference. The 
fineness and the color of sugar are due to its refinement and the 
manufacturing processes through which it is put, and these are 
indicated by various terms and trade names, such as granulated, 
pulverised, and soft sugars. 

The grading of granulated sugar is based on the size of its crystals, 
this sugar coming in three qualities. The coarsest is known as 
coarse granulated; the next finer, as standard granulated ; and the 
finest, as fine granulated. There is also a fourth grade known as 
fancy fine, or extra- fine, granulated, and often called fruit, or berry, 
sugar. 

10. So far as candy is concerned, the coarseness of the sugar 
does not make a great deal of difference, although the finer sugars 
are perhaps a little better because they dissolve more quickly in the 
liquid and are a trifle less likely to crystallize after cooking. AMien 
sugar is to be used without cooking, however, its fineness makes a 
decided difference. Sugars finer than granulated are known as 
pulverized sugars and are made by grinding granulated sugar in a 
mill that crushes the crystals. These pulverized sugars are known 
on the market as coarse pozvdcrcd, standard powdered, and A'A'A'A' 
powdered, the last being the one that should always be purchased for 
the making of confectionery where the use of uncooked sugar is 
required. One of the chief characteristics of sugars of this kind is 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 5 

that they lump to a great extent, the finer the sugar the larger and 
harder being the lumps. Before sugar that has become lumpy can 
be used, it must be reduced to its original condition by crushing the 
lumps with a rolling pin and then sifting the sugar through a fine 
wire sieve. As explained in Cakes, Cookies, and Puddings, Part 1, 
sugars of this kind are not suitable for cooking purposes, such as the 
preparation of cooked icings, etc. These are made from granulated 
or other coarse sugar, while the uncooked ones are made from 
XXXX, or confectioners', sugar, as it is sometimes called. Then, 
too, fine sugars cost more than do the granulated sugars, so it is well 
to remember that nothing is gained by their use. 

11. The third variety of sugars, which are known as soft sugars, 
are purchased by the retail dealer by number. There are fifteen 
grades of this sugar, ranging from 1 to 15, and the number indicates 
the color of the sugar. No. 1 is practically white, while No. 15 
is very dark, and the intervening numbers vary in color between 
these two shades. The lightness of the color indicates the amount 
of refinement the sugars have had. The dark-brown sugars are 
stronger in flavor and indicate less refinement than the light ones. 
When brown sugar is required for any purpose, it is usually advis- 
able to use one of the lighter shades, because they are more agreeable 
in taste than the very dark ones. 

12. Molasses. — ^The liquid that remains after most of the sugar 
has been refined out of the cane juice is known as molasses. The 
juice from beets does not produce molasses; therefore, all of the 
molasses found on the market is the product of cane juice. A 
molasses known as sorghum molasses is made by boiling the sap of 
sorghum, which is a stout cereal grass, but this variety is seldom 
found on the general market, it being used locally where it is manu- 
factured. The dark color and the characteristic flavor of molasses 
are due to the foreign materials that remain in the juice after the 
removal of the sugar. Molasses is not so sweet as sugar, but it is 
much used as an ingredient in the making of many delicious confec- 
tions. As in the case of soft sugars, the lighter the molasses is in 
color, the more agreeable is the flavor of the confections made 
from it. 

13. Glucose. — Another substance much used in the making of 
confections is glucose. It is usually manufactured from the starch 
of corn and is put on the market under various trade names, but 



6 CONFECTIONS § 24 

generally it is called corn sirup. Many persons have long considered 
glucose a harmful food, but this beHef has been proved untrue. 
Glucose has come to be absolutely necessary in some candy making 
in order to produce certain results. The glucose that the confec- 
tioners use is a heavier, stickier substance than the sirups that can be 
purchased for table use or for cooking, but these do very well for 
most candy-making purposes. However, none of the glucose 
preparations are so sweet as sugar, maple sirup, or honey. 

14. Glucose will not crystallize nor make a creamy substance; 
neither will it permit any substance that contains more than a very 
little of it to become creamy. A creamy candy containing a small 
amount of it will remain soft longer than that made without it; also, 
it will cream without danger of the formation of large crystals. 
Because of these characteristics, which are responsible for its 
use in candy making, a mixture containing glucose will not 
"go to sugar." Taffy-like confections and clear candies contain 
a large proportion of glucose, while any that are intended to be 
creamy, such as bonbons and the centers for chocolates, have only a 
small amount, if any, glucose in them. 

15. Maple Sirup and Maple Sugar. — Maple sirup and 
maple sugar, because of their pleasing flavor, are used exten- 
sively for candy making. Maple sirup is, of course, the basis for 
maple sugar, for by boiling the sirup to evaporate the water and then 
stirring it, maple sugar results. When the sirup is used for candy 
making, it must be boiled, but it seldom requires any liquid other 
than that which it already contains. On the other hand, maple sugar 
requires liquid in some form, for it must first be dissolved in a liquid 
and then boiled with it. 

16. Honey. — Honey that has been pressed from the comb and 
is in the form of a heavy sirup is used in the making of various con- 
fections. It provides a delightful flavor much different from that of 
sugar, and when it is cooked it acts in much the same way as glucose. 



FLAVORINGS 



17. Kinds of Flavorings. — Flavorings are very important in 
the making of confections, for it is on them that much of the appe- 
tizing effect of these foods depends. In fact, unless good flavorings 
are secured and then used discreetly, tasty results cannot be expected. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 7 

The flavorings used in candy making are in reality divided into two 
classes — natural and artificial. 

18. Natural Flavorings. — Under the head of natural flavor- 
ings come those which are made from the fruit or the plant that pro- 
duces the desired flavor. They are known as oils and extracts. 

19. The oils are obtained by pressing out the natural flavoring 
substance from the material containing it. They are usually very 
strong, so that only a little is needed to flavor a comparatively large 
quantity of food. Peppermint, wintergreen, and cinnamon are the 
oils that are used the most. 

20. Extracts are prepared by using alcohol to extract the 
flavoring substances from certain materials. The alcohol acts as a 
preservative, so that the finished extract nearly always contains a 
high percentage of this material. Vanilla and such flavorings as 
lemon and orange are examples of extracts that are usually made in 
this way. A few companies manufacture a product in which glycer- 
ine instead of alcohol is used as the preservative. Flavorings so pre- 
pared are in the form of a thick, sirupy substance rather than a 
liquid and are usually sold in a tube. 

21. Artificial Flavorings. — Flavorings classified as artificial 
flavorings are of two kinds : those having for their basis substances 
extracted from coal tar and those prepared by various chemical com- 
binations. They are also known as synthetic flavors. With regard 
to both healthfulness and taste, they are not so desirable as the 
natural flavorings. 

22. Adulteration of Flavorings. — ^As it is a common 
practice to adulterate flavorings, every manufacturer of these 
materials is obliged to state on the label of each bottle or tube of 
flavoring just what its contents consist of. Therefore, when the 
purchase is made, the label should be carefully examined. Without 
doubt, vanilla is adulterated more often than any other flavoring, a 
pure extract of vanilla being seldom found. The beans from which 
the flavor is extracted are very expensive, so the Tonka bean and 
other cheaper flavoring substances are often resorted to in the mak- 
ing of this flavoring. However, when large amounts of such things 
are used, the price of the extract should be less than that charged 
for the pure extract of the vanilla bean. Many chefs and profes- 
sional cooks overcome this difficulty by purchasing the vanilla beans 



8 CONFECTIONS § 24 

and using them for flavoring purposes by soaking or cooking small 
pieces of them in the material that is to be flavored or grinding the 
bean in a mortar and using it in the ground form. 



COLORINGS 

23. Coloring's are used in the making of confections, candy in 
particular, for two purposes: to make them attractive and to indi- 
cate certain flavors. For instance, candies flavored with winter- 
green are usually colored pink, while those containing peppermint 
are colored pale green or are left white. Strawberry and rose flavors 
are also colored pink ; orange and lemon, their respective shades of 
yellow; violet, lavender; and pistachio and almond, green. 

24. The substances used for coloring confections are of two 
general classes: vegetable and mineral, or chemical. The vegetable 
colorings, like the natural flavorings, are considered to be the most 
healthful ones. Some of the chemical colorings are derivatives of 
coal tar, just as are the coal-tar flavorings. Cochineal, a red color 
extracted from the bodies of cochineal insects, is a coloring matter 
much used in the preparation of confections. These coloring mate- 
rials may be purchased in several forms. The ones most commonly 
used come in the form of liquid or paste, but frequently colorings 
are to be had in powder or tablet form. 

25. Discretion must always be observed in the use of colorings. 
Because of their concentration, they must be greatly diluted and 
used in only very small amounts. As is well known, pale colors in 
candies are always more attractive than deep ones. Then, too, when 
candies contain much color, most persons are likely to consider them 
harmful to eat. To get the best results, only a little coloring should 
be added at a time, and each amount added should be mixed in 
thoroughly. Then the danger of getting too much coloring will be 
avoided. It should be remembered, however, that if colored candies 
are kept for any length of time or are exposed to the light, they will 
fade to a certain extent ; consequently, these may be colored a little 
more deeply than those which are to be used at once. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 9 

ACIDS 

26. To prevent the creaming or the crystallizing of such candy 
as tafiEy, an acid of some kind is generally used with the cane sugar 
in the making of this variety of confection. The acid, upon being 
boiled with the sugar, changes a part of the cane sugar to invert 
sugar, and as this does not crystallize, the candy will not become 
sugary. A similar effect is obtained by adding glucose in sufficient 
amounts ; since it does not crystallize, the cane sugar is prevented 
from becoming sugary. 

27. The acids most commonly used for this purpose are cream 
of tartar, acetic acid, vinegar, which has acetic acid for its basis, and 
lemon juice, which has citric acid for its basis. With each pound of 
sugar, it will be necessary to use ^ teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
1 or 2 drops of acetic acid, or 1 tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice in order to prevent crystallization. Lemon juice and vinegar 
are much more likely to flavor the candy than are cream of tartar 
and acetic acid. Often, if a fine-grained creamy candy is desired, a 
small amount of one of these acids is used. Even in small quanti- 
ties, they will prevent the coarse-grained crystallization that is the 
natural result of the cooking and stirring of the cane sugar when 
nothing is done to prevent it. 



FOOD MATKRIAIiS 

28. In addition to the ingredients already mentioned, there are a 
number of materials that may be used in the making of candy to 
provide food value and at the same time give variety and improve 
the flavor and appearance of the candy. Chief among these mate- 
rials are coconut, cocoa, chocolate, nuts, candied and dried fruits, 
milk, cream, butter, etc. Their value in candy depends on their use, 
so it is well to understand their nature and the methods of using 
them. 

29. Cocoiiut. — Either shredded or ground coconut is often used 
in candy to give it flavor or variety. Coconut for this purpose may 
be secured in a number of forms. A coconut itself may be pur- 
chased, cracked open to remove the flesh, and then prepared either 
by grating it or by grinding it. This will be found to be very 
delicious and preferable to any other kind. However, if it is not 
desired to prepare the coconut in the home, this material may be 



10 CONFECTIONS § 24 

purchased shredded in boxes or in cans. That which conies in boxes 
is usually somewhat dry and is often found to be quite hard. The 
canned varieties remain soft, since the shredded coconut is mixed 
with the milk of the coconut, but these have the disadvantage of not 
keeping very well. Any coconut that becomes too dry for use may 
be softened by steaming it. 

30. Cocoa and Chocolate. — In the making of confections, 
cocoa and chocolate are used extensively for both flavoring and coat- 
ing. Either of them may be used for flavoring purposes, but choco- 
late is always preferable, because it has a richer, deeper flavor than 
cocoa. Bitter chocolate should be used in preference to any kind of 
sweet chocolate. When it is to be cooked with candy for flavoring, 
it may be added to the other ingredients in pieces and allowed to melt 
during the cooking. It is often used without cooking, however, as 
when it is added to material that is to be used as centers for bonbons 
or opera creams. In such an event, it is first melted over steam or 
hot water and then worked into the candy. 

31. When desired for coating, chocolate that is sweetened is 
usually employed, although many persons are fond of creams that 
have a bitter coating. Sometimes a bitter-sweet coating, that is, a 
slightly sweetened chocolate, is used, and for most purposes a coat- 
ing of this kind is preferred. Such chocolate must usually be pur- 
chased from a store where confectioner's supplies are sold or from a 
candy-making establishment. Milk chocolate and very sweet coat- 
ings may also be purchased for coating, but the eating chocolate 
that is sold in bars will not produce satisfactory results, and so 
should never be used for coating purposes. 

32. Candled and Dried Fruits. — Many varieties of candied 
or crystallized fruits and flowers find a place in the making of con- 
fections. Sometimes they are used as an ingredient, while other 
times they are added to bonbons and chocolates merely for decorative 
purposes. Again, they are often used in boxes of fancy candies that 
are packed to sell at some special event or to give away. They are 
somewhat expensive to purchase, but if they are properly used they 
add such an appetizing touch and produce such gratifying and 
delightful results that the expenditure for them is well justified. 
Many of these may be prepared in the home with a certain degree of 
satisfaction. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 11 

33. The two candied fruits most frequently used are candied 
pineapple and candied cherries, but, in addition to these candied 
apricots, peaches, pears, limes, lemons, and oranges are often found 
in the market. Cherries preserved in maraschino wine and creme 
de menthe add attractive touches of color to candies and make 
delicious confections when coated with bonbon cream or chocolate. 

34. Crystallized violets, rose petals, and mint leaves are used 
frequently in the preparation of confections. They are added merely 
for decoration and make very attractive candies. They can usually 
be purchased in confectionery stores. 

35. Several varieties of dried fruits, chief among which are 
dates, figs, and raisins, are useful in the making of confections. 
They have the advantage of not requiring complicated manipula- 
tion, and at the same time they lend themselves to a number of 
delicious confections that may often be eaten by persons who cannot 
eat anything so rich as candy. Children can usually partake of con- 
fections made of these fruits without harm when candy would 
disagree with them. 

36. Nuts. — Nuts of various kinds probably have more extensive 
use in the making of confections than any other class of foods. In 
fact, there are few kinds of candy that cannot be much improved 
by the addition of nuts. Halves of such nuts as English walnuts and 
pecans are frequently used by being pressed into the outside of bon- 
bons and chocolates. Then, too, pieces of various kinds of nuts are 
used with a filling for coated candies. Such nuts as almonds, filberts, 
walnuts, and peanuts are often covered singly or in clusters with the 
same chocolate coating that is used to coat creams. Pistachio nuts, 
which are light green in color, are either chopped or used in halves 
on chocolates or bonbons. 

37. When nuts are not desired whole for confections, they 
should never be put through a food chopper; rather, they should 
always be broken up by being cut or chopped with a knife. The 
simplest way in which to cut them is to spread the nuts in a single 
layer on a board and then with a sharp knife press down on them, 
having one hand on the back of the knife near the point and the 
other on the handle and rocking the knife back and forth across the 
nuts until they are as fine as desired. They may also be chopped in 
a chopping bowl or cut one at a time with a small, sharp knife. 



12 CONFECTIONS § 24 

38. Salted nuts, while not a confection in the true sense of the 
word, are closely related to confections, since they are used for 
the same purpose. For this reason, it seems advisable to give the 
methods of preparing them in connection with the preparation of 
confections. 

39. Pop Corn. — An excellent confection and one that always 
appeals to children may be made from pop corn. This variety of 
Indian corn has small kernels with or without sharp points. To pre- 
pare it for confections, the kernels, or grains, are removed from the 
ears and then exposed to heat in a corn popper or a covered pan. 
When they become sufficiently hot, they pop, or explode; that is, 
they rupture their yellow coat and turn inside out. The popped 
kernels may be eaten in this form by merely being salted or they 
may be treated with various sugar preparations in the ways explained 
later. 

40. Milk, Cream, and Butter. — Milk is extensively used in 
the making of candy, both to obtain a certain flavor and to secure a 
particular consistency. Skim milk may be used for this purpose, but 
the richer the milk, the better will be the flavor of the finished candy. 
Cream, of course, makes the most delicious candy, but as it is usually 
expensive, it greatly increases the cost of the confection. Butter 
may be used with milk to obtain a result similar to that secured by 
the use of cream. If skim milk is used, butter should by all means 
be added, for it greatly improves the flavor of the candy. In any 
recipe requiring milk, condensed or evaporated milk may be sub- 
stituted with very satisfactory results. These milks may be diluted 
as much as is desired. 

Besides providing flavor, milk, cream, and butter add food value 
to the confections in which they are used. Most of this is in the 
form of fat, a food substance that is not supplied by any other 
ingredients, except perhaps chocolate and nuts. They are therefore 
particularly valuable and should always be used properly in order 
that the most good may be derived from them. 

41. The chief problem in the use of milk is to keep it from curd- 
ing and, if curding takes place, to prevent the curds from settling and 
burning during the boiling. When maple sirup, molasses, or other 
substances that are liable to curdle milk are to be cooked with the 
milk, a little soda should be added or, if possible, the milk should be 
heated well before it is put in. When it can be done, the milk 



§24 



CONFECTIONS 



13 



should be cooked with the sugar before the ingredients likely to make 
it curdle are added. 

In case the milk does curdle, the mixture should be treated at 
once, or the result will be very unsatisfactory. The best plan con- 
sists in beating the mixture rapidly with a rotary egg beater in order 
to break up the curds as fine as possible, and then stirring it fre- 
quently during the boiling to keep the milk from settling and burning. 
As this stirring is a disadvantage in the making of candy, every 
precaution should be taken to prevent the curding of the milk. 



EQUIPMENT FOR CONFECTION MAKING 

42. The utensils for candy making are few in number and 
simple in nature. As with all of the more elaborate foods, the fancy 
candies require slightly more unusual equipment, and even for the 
more ordinary kinds it is possible to buy convenient utensils that 




Fig. 1 

will make results a little more certain. But, as illustrated in Fig. 1, 
which shows the general equipment for confection making, practi- 
cally all the utensils required are to be found in every kitchen. 

43. To boil the confectionery ingredients, a saucepan or a kettle 
is required. This may be made of copper or aluminum or of any of 
the various types of enamelware that are used for cooking utensils. 
One important requirement is that the surface of the pan be perfectly 
smooth. A pan that has become rough from usage or an enamelware 
pan that is chipped should not be used for the boiling of candy. 

The size of the utensil to use depends on the kind and the amount 
of the mixture to be boiled. A sugar-and-water mixture does not 



14 CONFECTIONS § 24 

require a pan much larger in size than is necessary to hold the mix- 
ture itself, for it does not expand much in boiling. However, a 
mixture containing milk, condensed milk, cream, or butter should 
be cooked in a pan much larger than is needed for the same quantity 
of sugar and water, for such a mixture expands greatly and is liable 
to boil over. The necessary size of the pan to be used should be 
overestimated rather than underestimated. In the cooking of candy, 
just as in the cooking of other foods, the surface exposed to the 
heat and the depth of the material to be cooked affect the rapidity of 
cooking and evaporation. Consequently, if rapid evaporation and 
quick cooking are desired, a pan that is broad and comparatively 
shallow should be used, rather than one that is narrow and deep. 

44. Measuring cups and spoons, a spoon for stirring, and a 
knife are, of course, essential in making confections. Then, too, it 
is often convenient to have a metal spatula and a wooden spoon or 
spatula. When these utensils are made of wood, they are light in 
weight and consequently excellent for stirring and beating. If egg 
whites are used in the preparation of a confection, an egg whip is 
needed. When candy must be poured into a pan to harden, any 
variety of pan may be used, but generally one having square comers 
is the most satisfactory. Then if the candy is cut into squares, none 
of it will be wasted in the cutting. 

45, A thermometer that registers as high as 300 or 400 degrees 
Fahrenheit is a valuable asset in candy making when recipes giving 
the temperature to which the boiling must be carried are followed. 
A degree of accuracy can be obtained in this way by the inexperi- 
enced candy maker that cannot be matched with the usual tests. A 
small thermometer may be used, but the larger the thermometer, the 
easier will it be to determine the degrees on the mercury column. A 
new thermometer should always be tested to determine its accuracy. 
To do this, stand the thermometer in a small vessel of warm water, 
place the vessel over a flame, and allow the water to boil. If the 
thermometer does not register 212 degrees at boiling, the number of 
degrees more or less must be taken into account whenever the 
thermometer is used. For instance, if the thermometer registers 
208 degrees at boiling and a recipe requires candy to be boiled to 
238 degrees, it will be necessary to boil the candy to 234 degrees 
because the thermometer registers 4 degrees lower than it should. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 15 

46. The double boiler also finds a place in candy making. For 
melting chocolate, coating for bonbons, or fondant for reception 
wafers, a utensil of this kind is necessary. One that will answer the 
purpose very well may be improvised by putting a smaller pan into a 
larger one containing water. In using one of this kind, however, an 
effort should be made to have the pans exactly suited to each other 
in size ; otherwise, the water in the lower pan will be liable to splash 
into the pan containing the material that is being heated. 

For the coating of bonbons, a coating fork, which is merely a thin 
wire twisted to make a handle with a loop at one end, is the most 
convenient utensil to use. However, this is not satisfactory for 
coating with chocolate, a different method being required for this 
material. 

47. A number of candies, such as fondant, bonbon creams, and 
cream centers for chocolates, can be made much more satisfactorily if, 
after they are boiled, they are poured on a flat surface to cool. Such 
treatment permits them to cool as quickly as possible in a compara- 
tively thin layer and thus helps to prevent crystallization. When 
only a small amount of candy is to be made, a large platter, which is 
the easiest utensil to procure, produces fairly good results. For 
larger amounts, as, for instance, when candy is being made to sell, 
some more convenient arrangement must be made. The most satis- 
factory thing that has been found for cooling purposes is a marble 
slab such as is found on an old-fashioned table or dresser. If one of 
these is not available, and the kitchen or pastry table has a vitrolite 
or other heavy top resembling porcelain, this will make a very good 
substitute. 

48. To prevent the hot candy from running off after it is poured 
on a slab or any similar flat surface, a device of some kind should be 
provided. A very satisfactory one consists of four metal bars 
about f to 1 inch in width and thickness and as long as desired to fit 
the slab, but usually about 18 inches in length. They may be pro- 
cured from a factory where steel and iron work is done, or they may 
be purchased from firms selling candy-making supplies. These bars 
are merely placed on top of the slab or flat surface with the corners 
carefully fitted and the candy is then poured in the space between 
the bars. When it is desired to pour out fudge, caramels, and 
similar candies to harden before cutting, the metal bars may be 
fitted together and then placed on the slab in such a way as to be 



16 CONFECTIONS § 24 

most convenient. Fudge, however, may be cooled satisfactorily in 
the pan in which it is cooked if the cooling is done very rapidly. 

49. A satisfactory cooling slab may be improvised by fastening 
four pieces of wood together so as to fit the outside edge of the slab 
and extend an inch or more above the surface. If such a device is 
used, plaster of Paris should be poured around the edge of the slab 
to fill any space between the wood and the slab. In using a slab or 
similar surface for purposes of this kind, a point that should be 
remembered is that a part of it should never be greased, but should 
be reserved for the cooling of fondant and certain kinds of center 
creams, which require only a moistened surface. 

50. Many of the candies that are turned out on a flat surface 
must be worked to make them creamy. For this purpose, nothing is 
quite so satisfactory as a putty knife or a wallpaper scraper. If a 
platter is used, a putty knife is preferable, for it has a narrower 
blade than a wallpaper scraper ; but where candy is made in quan- 
tity and a large slab is used, the larger scraper does the work better. 
For use with a platter, a spoon is perhaps the best utensil when a 
putty knife is not in supply. 

51. Scales are valuable in candy making because they permit 
exact measurements to be made. However, they are not an 
actual necessity, for almost all recipes give the ingredients by mea- 
sure, and even if this is not done, they may be purchased in the 
desired weight or transposed into equivalent measure. Scales, of 
course, are required if it is desired to weigh out candy in small 
amounts or in boxes after it is made. 

52. Waxed paper is a valuable addition to candy-making sup- 
plies, there being many occasions for its use. For instance, caramels 
and certain other candies must be wrapped and waxed paper is the 
most suitable kind for this purpose. Then, too, chocolate-coated 
candies and bonbons must be placed on a smooth surface to which 
they will not stick. Waxed paper is largely used for this purpose, 
although candy makers often prefer white oilcloth, because its sur- 
face is ideal and it can be cleansed and used repeatedly. Often a 
candy- or cracker-box lining that has been pressed smooth with a 
warm iron may be utilized. For such purposes, as when reception 
wafers are to be dropped, it is necessary that the surface of the paper 
used be absolutely unwrinkled. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 17 



PROCEDURE IN CONFECTION MAKING 



COOKING THE MIXTURE 

53. Weatlier Conditions. — If uniformly good results are 
desired in candy making, certain points that determine the success 
or failure of many candies, although seemingly unimportant, must 
be observed. Among these, weather conditions form such a large 
factor that they cannot be disregarded. A cool, clear day, when the 
atmosphere is fairly dry, is the ideal time for the making of all 
kinds of candies. Warm weather is not favorable, because the candy 
does not cool rapidly enough after being cooked. Damp weather is 
very bad for the making of such candies as the creamy ones that 
are made with egg white and that are desired to be as soft as pos- 
sible and still in condition to handle. In view of these facts, candy 
should be made preferably on days when the weather is favorable if 
the element of uncertainty, so far as results are concerned, would be 
eliminated. 

54. Combining the Sugar and Liquid. — -The proportion 
of liquid and sugar to use in making candy varies to some extent 
with the kind of ingredients used and with the quantity of candy 
being made. In the making of quantities up to several pounds, the 
usual proportion is one-third as much liquid as sugar, but with 
larger amounts of sugar the quantity of liquid may be slightly 
decreased. 

With the quantities decided on, mix the sugar and liquid and put 
them over the fire to boil. Stir at first to prevent the sugar from 
settling and burning, continuing the stirring either constantly or at 
intervals until the boiling begins. At this point, discontinue the 
stirring if possible. Mixtures that do not contain milk usually 
require no further stirring, and many times stirring is unnecessary 
even in those which do contain milk; but whenever any stirring is 
required, as little as possible should be done. The rule that applies 
in this connection is that the sugar should be entirely dissolved 
before the boiling begins and that all unnecessary agitation should 
then cease. 

55. Boiling the Mixture. — When the mixture begins to boil, 
wash down the sides, of the kettle with a small cloth wet with clean 

Vf I— C J-13 



18 CONFECTIONS § 24= 

water. This treatment should not be omitted if especially nice 
candy is desired, for it removes all undissolved sugar and helps to 
prevent crystallization later. In case merely sugar and water make 
up the ingredients, a cover may be placed on the kettle; then the 
steam that is retained will keep any sirup that may splash on the 
sides from crystallizing. This cannot be done, however, with mix- 
tures containing milk and butter, for they will in all probability 
boil over. 

56. The boiling of candy should be carried on quickly, for slow 
boiling often proves a disadvantage. A sugar-and-water mixture 
may, of course, be boiled more rapidly than any other kind, because 
there is not the danger of its boiling over nor of burning before the 
water is evaporated that there is with a mixture containing mate- 
rial that may settle and burn. It should be remembered that candy 
does not begin to burn until the water has entirely evaporated. 

57. The length of time candy should boil is also a matter to 
which attention should be given. This depends somewhat on the 
kind that is being made, but largely on the rapidity with which the 
boiling is carried on. Thus, to time the boiling of candy is the most 
uncertain way of determining when the boiling has continued long 

'enough. The inaccuracy of measurement, the size and shape of the 
pan, and the rate of speed in boiling cause a variation in the time 
required. Consequently, it would be rather difficult for the same 
person to get identical conditions twice and much more difficult for 
two persons to produce the same results. 

58. Testing Candy. — Since accurate results cannot be 
obtained by timing the boiling of candy, other tests must be found 
that will be reliable. As has already been stated, a thermometer is 
perhaps the most accurate means that can be adopted for this pur- 
pose. However, if one is not available, the testing of a small quan- 
tity of the hot mixture by cooling it in cold water will be found to be 
fairly accurate. Ice water is not necessary nor particularly desirable 
for this kind of testing. In fact, water just as it comes from the 
faucet is the best, as it is quickly obtained and its temperature will 
not vary greatly except in very hot or very cold weather. Of course, 
to make an extremely accurate test of this kind, it would be neces- 
sary always to have the water at the same temperature, a condition 
that can be determined only by testing the temperature, but such 
accuracy is not usually required. 



§24 



CONFECTIONS 



19 



If the thermometer is used, all that need be done is to insert it 
into the candy and allow it to remain there until the temperature is 
registered. In case it does not reach the right temperature the first 
time, keep the mixture boiling until it registers the temperature that 
is decided on as the correct one. 

59. To test the mixture by the water method, allow it to boil 
almost long enough to be done, and then try it at close intervals when 
it is nearing the end of the boiling. Dip a little of the sirup into a 
spoon and drop it slowly into a cup containing a little water. Not 
much sirup is needed for the test, a few drops being sufficient. 
Gather the drops together with the tips of the fingers and judge 
from the ball that forms whether the candy has boiled sufficiently or 
not. If the ball is not of the right consistency, boil the candy a little 
longer and test again. Be sure, however, to get fresh water for 
each test. When the candy is nearing the final test, and it is thought 
that the mixture has boiled enough, remove the pan from the heat 
while the test is being made so that the boiling will not be continued 
too long. 

60. To assist in making the tests for candy properly. Table I is 
given. This table shows both the water test and the corresponding 
temperature test for the representative variety of the leading classes 
of candies. In each one of these classes there are, of course, a num- 
ber of varieties which may cause a slight variation in some of the 
tests, but on the whole these tests are uniform and can be relied on 
for practically all candies. 

TABLE I 



TESTS FOR REPRESENTATIVE CI/ASSES OV CANDY 


Classes 


Water Test 


Temperature Test 
Degrees Fahrenheit 


Center Cream 

Fudsre 


Softball 

Firm ball 

Hardball 

Brittle ball 


234 to 236 
238 to 240 


Caramels 


246 to 248 


Taffies 


256 to 260 







When candy is cooked long enough to form a soft ball, it can just 
be gathered together and held in the fingers. If it is held for any 
length of time, the warmth of the fingers softens it greatly and causes 
it to lose its form. This test is used for candies, such as soft-center 



20 CONFECTIONS § 24 

cream. It will be found that when candy boiled to this degree is 
finished, it can scarcely be handled. 

The firm ball is the stage just following the soft ban. It will keep 
its shape when held in the fingers for some time. This is the test for 
fudge, bonbon creams, and similar candies that are creamed and are 
expected to be hard and dry enough to handle when they are 
finished. 

To form a hard ball, candy must be cooked longer than for the 
firm ball. At this stage, the ball that is formed may be rolled in the 
finger tips. It is not so hard, however, that an impression cannot be 
made in it with the fingers. It is the test for caramels, soft butter 
scotch, sea foam, and many other candies. 

A brittle ball is the result of any temperature beyond 256 degrees 
up to the point where the sugar would begin to bum. It is hard 
enough to make a sound when struck against the side of the cup or 
to crack when an attempt is made to break it. This is the test that 
is made for taflfy and other hard candies. 



POURING AND COOLING THE MIXTURE 

61. After the testing of the mixture proves that it is boiled 
sufficiently, there are several procedures that may be followed. The 
one to adopt depends on the kind of candy that is being made, but 
every candy that is cooked should be cooled by one of the following 
methods. 

62. The first treatment consists in pouring the mixture at once 
from the pan to be finished without cooling, as, for instance, caramels 
and butter scotch, which are poured at once into a buttered pan to be 
cooled and cut; or, the hot sirup may be poured upon beaten egg 
whites, as in the case of sea foam or penuchie. In the making of 
either of these kinds, the sirup may be allowed to drip as completely 
as possible from the pan without injury to the finished product. 

63. The second method by which the mixture is cooled calls for 
cooling the sirup in the pan in which it was cooked, as, for instance, 
in the case of fudge. When this is done, the pan should be carried 
from the stove to the place where the mixture is to be cooled with as 
little agitation as possible. Also, during the cooling, it should not be 
disturbed in any way. Stirring it even a little is apt to start crystal- 
lization and the candy will then be grainy instead of creamy. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 21 

64. In the third form of treatment, the sirup is poured out and 
then cooled before it is stirred to make it creamy, as in opera creams 
or bonbon creams. To accomplish this, the pan should be tipped 
quickly and all its contents turned out at once. It should not be 
allowed to drip even a few drops, for this dripping starts the crystal- 
lization. Candies that contain milk or butter, or sticky materials, 
such as taffies, should always be poured on a buttered surface. Those 
which are cooked with water but are to be creamed should be poured 
on a surface moistened with cold water. 

65. When candy mixtures are cooled before being completed, the 
cooling should be carried to the point where no heat is felt when the 
candy is touched. To test it, the backs of the fingers should be laid 
lightly on the surface of the candy, as they will not be so likely to 
stick as the moist tips on the palm side. It should be remembered 
that the surface must not be disturbed in the testing, as this is also 
apt to bring about crystallization. 

Every precaution should be taken to prevent even the smallest 
amount of crystallization. Any crystals that may have formed can 
be easily detected when the stirring is begun by the scraping that can 
be felt by the spoon or paddle used. If a little crystallization has 
taken place before the candy has cooled completely, it being easily 
seen in the clear sirup, the mixture should be cooled still further, 
for nothing is gained by stirring it at once. 

A point that should always be kept in mind in the cooling of candy 
is that it should be cooled as quickly as possible. However, a refrig- 
erator should not be used for cooling, for the warm mixture raises 
the temperature of the refrigerator and wastes the ice and at the 
same time the moist atmosphere does not bring about the best results. 
As has already been learned, a platter or a slab is very satisfactory. 
If either of these is used, it should be as cold as possible when the 
sirup is poured on it. Cold weather, of course, simplifies this matter 
greatly, but if no better way is afforded, the utensil used should be 
cooled with cold water 

FINISHING CANDIES 

66. The treatment through which candy mixtures are put after 
being cooled varies with the kind of candy being made. Some mix- 
tures, as fudge, are beaten until creamy in the pan in which they 
are cooked. Others are worked on a platter or a slab with the proper 



22 CONFECTIONS § 24 

kind of utensil. These are usually treated in a rather elaborate vi'ay, 
being often coated with bonbon cream or with chocolate. Still 
others, such as taffy, are pulled until light in color and then cut into 
small pieces with a pair of scissors. Again, certain candies, after 
being poured into a pan, are allowed to become hard and then cut 
into squares or broken into pieces. Usually candies made in the 
home are served without being wrapped, but when certain varieties 
are to be packed, it is advisable to wrap them. Directions for finish- 
ing confections in these different ways are here given. 

67. Marking- and Cutting- Candies. — Much of the succes.s 
of certain candies depends on their treatment after being cooled. 
Those which must be beaten in the pan until they are creamy should 
be beaten just as long as possible. Then, if the surface is not smooth 
when they are poured out, pat it out with the palm of the hand after 
the candy has hardened a little. As soon as it has hardened suffi- 
ciently to remain as it is marked and not run together, mark it in 
pieces of the desired size, using for this purpose a thin, sharp knife. 
Be careful to .have the lines straight and the pieces even in size. 
Generally, candy that is treated in this manner is cut into squares, 
although it may be cut into other shapes if desired. 

68. Coating Candles With Bonbon Cream. — When espe- 
cially nice candy is desired for a special occasion, it is often made 
into small pieces and then coated with bonbon cream. A large 
number of the centers to be coated should be made up before the 
coating is begun. In fact, if it is possible, all the centers should be 
made first and then the coating can proceed without interruption. 
The cream to be used for coating may be flavored or colored in any 
desirable way. Any flavoring or coloring that is to be used, 
however, should be added while the cream is melting. 

69. To coat with bonbon cream, put the cream in a double boiler 
without any water and allow it to melt with as little stirring as pos- 
sible. It is best to use a small double boiler for this purpose and not 
to melt too much of the cream at one time, as it is apt to become 
grainy if it is used too long for dipping. When it has melted to the 
extent that the coating will not be too thick after it has cooled, the 
dipping of the candies may begin. As soon as it is found that no 
more centers can be dipped in the cream, melt some fresh cream for 
the remaining centers, but do not add it to that which has been used 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 23 

before. Instead, use the first up as closely as possible and then drop 
the remainder by spoonfuls on waxed paper. With all of it used, 
wash and dry the inner pan of the double boiler and start again with 
a fresh lot of the cream. 

70. To coat the centers, drop one at a time into the melted 
cream and turn over with a coating fork or an ordinary table fork. 
When the surface is entirely covered, lift out of the cream with the 
fork and allow any superfluous coating to drip off. Then drop the 
coated bonbons on waxed paper to cool. While this work may prove 
a little difificult at first, it can be done with dexterity after a little 
practice. If an effort is made to have the centers uniform in size 
and shape, the finished candies will have the same appearance. 
While the cream is soft, tiny pieces of candied fruit or nuts may be 
pressed into the coating to decorate the bonbons. 

71. Coating "With Ch.ocolate. — Candies coated with choco- 
late are always desirable ; so it is well for any one who aspires toward 
confection making to become proficient in this phase of the work. 
The centers should, of course, be prepared first and put in a conve- 
nient place on the table where the coating is to be done. They may 
be made in any desired size and shape. 

If it is possible to secure a regular coating chocolate, this should 
be obtained, for it produces better results than does a chocolate that 
can be prepared. However, unless one lives in a place where con- 
fectioner's supplies are on sale, it is almost impossible to purchase a 
chocolate of this kind. In such an event, a substitute that will prove 
very satisfactory for candy to be eaten in the home and not to be 
sold may be made as follows : 

Coating Chocolate 
4 oz. milk chocolate i oz. paraffin 

2 oz. bitter chocolate 

To prepare the chocolate, put all the ingredients in a double boiler 
and allow them to melt, being careful .that not a single drop of water 
nor other foreign substance falls into the mixture. Do not cover 
the boiler, for then the steam will condense on the inside of the cover 
and fall into the chocolate. As this will spoil the chocolate so that 
it cannot be used for coating, the pan in which the chocolate is 
melted should always be allowed to remain open. The paraffin used 
helps to harden the chocolate after it is put on the centers ; this is a 



24 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 



particular advantage at any time, but especially when chocolates are 
made in warm weather. 

72. When the chocolate has completely melted, dip some of it 
into a small bowl or other dish or utensil having a round bottom and 
keep the rest over the heat so that it will not harden. With a spoon, 
beat that which is put into the bowl until it is cool enough to permit 
the fingers being put into it. Then work it with the fingers until all 
the heat is out of it and it begins to thicken. It may be tested at this 
point by putting one of the centers into it. If it is found to be too 
thin, it will run off the candy and make large, flat edges on the bot- 
tom. In such an event, work it and cool it a little more. When it is 
of the proper thickness, put the centers in, one at a time, and, as 
shown in Fig. 2, cover them completely with the chocolate and place 




Fig. 2 

them on waxed paper or white oilcloth to harden. As they harden, 
it will be found that they will gradually grow dull. No attempt 
whatever should be made to pick up these candies until they are 
entirely cold. This process is sometimes considered objectionable 
because of the use of the bare hands, but chocolate coating cannot be 
so successfully done in any other way as with the fingers. Therefore, 
any aversion to this method should be overcome if good results are 
desired. 

73. When the chocolate begins to harden in the bowl and conse- 
quently is difficult to work with, add more of the hot chocolate from 
the double boiler to it. It will be necessary, however, to beat the 
chocolate and work it with the fingers each time some is added, for 
otherwise the coating will not be desirable. So as to overcome the 



(24 



CONFECTIONS 



25 



necessity of doing this often, a fairly large amount may be cooled 
and worked at one time. Care should be taken to cover each center 




Fig. 3 

completely or its quality will deteriorate upon standing. With con- 
ditions right, the centers of chocolates and bonbons should soften 
and improve for a short time after being made, but chocolate-coated 
candies will keep longer than bonbons, as the coating does not 
deteriorate. 

74. "Wrapping Candies. — Such candies as caramels, certain 
kinds of tafifies, and even chocolates are often wrapped in waxed 
paper, especially if they are to be packed in boxes. When this is to 
be done, cut the paper into pieces of the proper size and then wrap 
each piece separately. The best way to prepare the paper is to fold 




Fig. 4 



several sheets until they are the desired size and then, as in Fig. 3, 
cut them with a sharp knife. If a pair of scissors is used for this 



26 CONFECTIONS § 24 

purpose, they are apt to slip and cut the paper crooked. The method 
of wrapping depends on the candy itself. Caramels are wrapped in 
square pieces whose ends are folded in neatly, as in Fig. 4, while 
tafify in the form of kisses is rolled in the paper and the ends are 
twisted to fasten the wrapping. 



VARIETIES OF CONFECTIONS AND THEIR 
PREPARATION 



TAFFIES AND SIMILAR CANDIES 



NATURE OF TAFFIES 

75. Taffy is probably one of the simplest candies that can be 
made. Indeed, if candy of this kind is boiled long enough, it is 
almost impossible to have unsatisfactory results. Taffies are usually 
made from white sugar, but a variety of flavors may be obtained by 
the use of different ingredients and flavors. For instance, molasses 
is used for some taffies, maple sirup for others, and brown sugar for 
others, and all of these offer an opportunity for variety. Then, 
again, tafify made from white sugar may be varied by means of many 
delightful colors and flavors. Melted chocolate or cocoa also makes 
a delightful chocolate-flavored taffy. Recipes for all of these varie- 
ties are here given, together with a number of recipes for closely 
related confections, such as butter scotch, glace nuts and fruits, 
peanut brittle, and nut bars. 

76. Methods of Treating Taffy. — Taffy may be poured out 
in a pan, allowed to become entirely cold, and then broken into 
irregular pieces for serving, or it may be pulled and then cut in small 
pieces with a pair of scissors. If it is to be pulled, it shuuld be 
poured from the pan in which it is cooked into flat pans or plates and 
set aside to cool. As soon as it is cool enough to handle, it may be 
taken from the pans and pulled. It will be found that the edges will 
cool and harden first. These should be pulled toward the center 
and folded so that they will warm against the center and form a new 
edge. If this is done two or three times during the cooling, the 
candy will cool evenly and be ready to take up into the hands. The 
pulling may then begin at once. If it has been cooked enough, it 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 27 

will not stick to the hands during the pulling. It is usually wise, 
however, to take the precaution of dusting the hands with corn 
starch before starting to pull the candy. Grease should never be 
used for this purpose. When taflfy is made in quantities, the work 
of pulling it is greatly lessened by stretching it over a large hook 
fastened securely to a wall. 

RECIPES FOR TAPPY 

77. Vanilla Taffy. — The taffy explained in the accompanying 
recipe is flavored with vanilla and when pulled is white in color. 
However, it may be made in different colors and flavors by merely 
substituting the desired flavor for the vanilla and using the coloring 
preferred. This recipe may also be used for chocolate taffy by 
adding melted chocolate just before the taffy has finished boiling. 

Vanilla Taffy 
4 c. sugar 1 c. boiling water 

i tsp. cream of tartar 2 Tb. butter 

1 Tb. vinegar 1 tsp. vanilla 

To the sugar, add the cream of tartar, vinegar, and boiling water. 
Place over the fire and boil until it will form a brittle ball when 
tested in cold water or will register at least 260 degrees on a ther- 
mometer. Just before the boiling is completed, add the butter. 
Remove from the fire, add the vanilla, pour in a shallow layer in a 
buttered pan or plate. Cool and pull. When the taffy has been 
pulled until it is perfectly white and is hard enough to retain its 
shape, twist it into a long, thin rope and cut with a pair of scissors 
into inch lengths. 

78. Butter Taffy. — Another variety of taffy flavored with 
vanilla is the one given in the accompanying recipe. It is called but- 
ter taffy because butter is used in a rather large amount for flavoring. 
It will be noted, also, that brown sugar and corn sirup are two of the 
ingredients. These, with the butter, give the taffy a very delightful 

flavor. 

Butter Taffy 

2 c. light-brown sugar f c. boiling water 
1 G. white sugar | c. butter 

i c. corn sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 Tb. vinegar 
Mix all the ingredients except the butter and vanilla. Place over 
the fire and boil until a brittle ball will form in cold water or z 



28 CONFECTIONS § '24. 

temperature of 260 degrees is reached. Just before the boiUng has 
been completed, add the butter. Remove from the fire, add the 
vanilla, and pour in a thin layer into greased pans or plates. Cool, 
pull, and cut. 

79. Molasses Taffy. — Of all the taffies, that made with 
molasses is nearly always the favorite. A light cane molasses that 
is not very strong in flavor is the preferred kind for this candy. 
When cut into round flat pieces and wrapped in waxed paper, 
molasses taffy appeals to both old and young. 

Molasses Taffy 
2 c. light cane molasses -J c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar 2 Tb. butter 

2 Tb. vinegar 

Mix all the ingredients except the butter. Cook until a brittle 
ball will form or a temperature of 264 degrees is reached on the 
thermometer. Add the butter just before the boiling is completed. 
Remove from the fire, pour into greased pans or plates, and allow 
it to become cool enough to handle. Then pull and cut. 

80. Chewing Taffy. — ^A tafify that is hard enough not to be 
sticky and still soft enough to chew easily is often desired. Chewing 
taffy, which is explained in the accompanying recipe, is a candy of 
this kind. After being pulled, it may be cut as other taffy is cut or 
it may be piled in a mass and chopped into pieces. 

Chewing Taffy 
i Tb. unflavored gelatine 1;^ c. milk 

2 c. sugar 2 Tb. butter 

1| c. corn sirup Vanilla and lemon 

Put the gelatine to soak in a few tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Cook the sugar, sirup, and milk until the mixture will form a hard 
ball that may be dented with the fingers or it reaches a temperature 
of 252 degrees. Stir the mixture gently to prevent burning. 
Remove from the fire and add the butter. Take the gelatine from 
the water, squeeze it as dry as possible, and add it to the hot mix- 
ture, stirring until it is entirely dissolved. Pour on a greased sur- 
face, cool, and pull until it is a light-cream color. While pulling, flavor 
with vanilla and a few drops of lemon. Stretch into a long thin rope 
and cut into inch lengths or pile in a mass and chop into pieces. 

81. Butter Scotcli. — Closely related to taffies so far as ingre- 
dients are concerned is candy known as butter scotch. This variety, 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 29 

however, is not pulled as are the taffies, but is allowed to become 
cool and then marked in squares which are broken apart when the 
candy is entirely cold. 

Butter Scotch 

2 c. white sugar ^ tsp. cream of tartar 

2 c. brown sugar | c. butter 

i c. corn sirup 1 tsp. lemon extract 

1 Tb. vinegar 
Mix all the ingredients except the butter and the lemon extract. 
Boil until a hard ball will form or 256 degrees register on the ther- 
mometer. Just before the boiling is completed, add the butter, and 
when the mixture has been removed from the fire, add the lemon 
extract. Pour into a greased pan, and before it has entirely cooled, 
cut into squares with a knife. When cold and desired for serving, 
remove from the pan and break the squares apart. If desired, candy 
of this kind may be allowed to become entirely cold without cutting 
and then broken into irregular pieces just before being served. 

82. Marshmallows Coated With Butter Scotch.. — A 

delightful confection may be made by covering marshmallows with 
hot butter scotch. To accomplish this, drop the marshmallows with 
a coating fork or an ordinary table fork into hot butter scotch that 
has just finished cooking. Remove them quickly, but see that the 
marshmallows are entirely covered. Drop on a buttered pan or 
plate and set aside to cool. 

83. Glace Nuts and Fruits. — Nuts and fruits covered with 
a clear, hard candy are known as glace nuts and fruits. These are a 
very delightful confection, and can easily be made if the accom- 
panying directions are carefully followed. Nuts of any variety may 
be used for this purpose, and such nuts as almonds need not be 
blanched. Candied cherries, candied pineapple, pressed figs, dates, 
and raisins are the fruits that are usually glaced. Confections of 
this kind should be eaten while fresh or kept in a closed receptacle 
in a dry place. 

Glace Nuts and Fruits 
Fruits and nuts f c. water 

2 c. granulated sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

^ tsp. cream of tartar 
Prepare the nuts by shelling them and, if necessary, roasting 
them, and the fruits by cutting them into small strips or cubes 
Mix the sugar and cream of tartar and add the water. Cook until 



30 CONFECTIONS § 24 

it will form a very brittle ball in water, will spin hair-like threads 
when drops of it fall from the spoon, or registers 290 degrees on 
the thermometer. Remove from the fire and put in a convenient 
place for the dipping of the fruit and nuts. Drop these into the hot 
sirup, one at a time, with a coating fork or an ordinary table fork. 
When entirely covered with the sirup, remove and drop on greased 
plates or pans. 

84. Peanut Brittle. — Peanuts are often used in confection 
making and are very much liked by the majority of persons. They 
come in two general varieties, which may be roasted before use or 
used unroasted, and it is well for the housewife to understand the 
difference between them. One variety is the large, oblong peanut 
generally sold at peanut stands and used for the salted peanuts 
sold in confectionery stores. The other is the variety known as 
Spanish peanuts, which are small and round. For some candies, it is 
necessary that the peanuts be roasted and the skins removed, while 
for others unroasted peanuts with the skins on are desirable. To 
remove the skins from unroasted peanuts, they must be blanched by 
immersing them in boiling water until the skins will slip off easily, 
but in the case of roasted peanuts, the skins may be removed with- 
out blanching. 

85. Peanut brittle is one of the candies in which peanuts are 
used. As its name implies, it is very thin and brittle and it 
usually contains a great many peanuts. Two recipes for candy of 
this kind are here given, one requiring peanuts that are roasted and 
blanched and the other, peanuts that are unroasted and not blanched. 

Peanut Brittle No. 1 

2 c. sugar J lb. shelled, roasted peanuts 

Put the sugar in a saucepan without any water. Place it over a 
slow fire and allow it to melt gradually until a clear, reddish-brown 
liquid is formed, taking care not to allow it to burn. Have a pan 
greased and covered with a thick layer of a large variety of roasted 
peanuts. Pour the melted sugar over them and allow it to become 
hard. Then break into pieces and serve. 

Peanut Brittle No. 2 

3 c. sugar 1 lb. raw Spanish peanuts 
1 c. corn sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. water 1 Tb. soda 

i c. butter 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 31 

Mix the sugar, sirup, and water and place it over the fire. Boil 
until a hard ball will form or a temperature of 250 degrees is 
reached on the thermometer. Add the butter and the peanuts with- 
out removing their brown skins. Allow to cook, stirring all the 
time, until the mixture begins to turn a light brown and the skins of 
the peanuts pop open, showing that the peanuts are roasted. Remove 
from the fire, add the vanilla and the soda and stir rapidly. Then 
pour the mixture, which will become thick upon the addition of the 
soda, on a fiat, greased surface. A slab is better for this purpose 
than anything else, but if this cannot be obtained a metal or other 
hard table top may be used. When the candy begins to get stiff, 
loosen it from the surface on which it was poured, cut it into two 
pieces, and turn each over ; or, if it can be handled without cutting, 
turn the entire piece over. Then stretch the candy until it is just as 
thin as possible, beginning around the edge. As it becomes colder, 
stretch even thinner. When entirely cool, break into pieces and 
serve. 

86. Nut Bars. — Another excellent nut candy can be made by 
pouring a sirup made of sugar, corn sirup, and water over a thick 
layer of nuts. Such fruits as dates and figs or coconut, or a combina- 
tion of these, may be used with the nuts, if desired. 

Nut Bars 
2 c. sugar i c. water 

f c. corn sirup 1| c. shelled nuts 

Put the sugar, sirup, and water over the fire and stir until it boils. 
Cover and cook until a hard ball will form or a temperature of 254 
or 256 degrees is reached. Spread the nuts on a buttered slab or 
pan, and to them add fruit or coconut if it is desired to use either 
of these. Pour the hot sirup over this until it is about 1 inch in 
thickness. When sufficiently cool, cut in pieces of any desirable 
size, using a quick, sliding motion of the knife and pressing down at 
the same time. Break into pieces when entirely cold and serve. 



32 CONFECTIONS § 24 



CARAMELS 

87. Nature of Caramels. — Caramels are included among the 
popular candies, and they may be made in many varieties. To plain 
vanilla caramels, which are the simplest kind to make, may be added 
any desirable color or flavor at the time they are removed from the 
fire. To keep caramels from crystallizing after they are boiled, 
glucose in some form must be used, and the most convenient kind to 
secure is corn sirup. Then, too, caramels will cut more easily and 
will have less of a sticky consistency if a small piece of paraffin is 
boiled with the mixture. The addition of this material or any wax 
that is not a food is contrary to the pure-food laws, and such candy 
cannot be sold. However, paraffin is not harmful, but is merely a 
substance that is not digested, so that the small amount taken by 
eating candy in which it is used cannot possibly cause any injury. 

88. In the making of caramels, it should be remembered that 
good results depend on boiling the mixture to just the right point. 
If they are not boiled enough, they will be too soft to retain their 
shape when cut, and if they are cooked too long, they will be brittle. 
Neither of these conditions is the proper consistency for caramels. 
To be right, they must be boiled until a temperature of 246 to 248 
degrees is reached. However, chocolate caramels need not be 
boiled so long, as the chocolate helps to harden them. 

89. Plain Caramels. — The accompanying recipe for plain 
caramels may be made just as it is given, or to it may be added any 
flavoring or coloring desired. A pink color and strawberry flavor 
are very often found in caramels and are considered to be a delicious 
combination. As will be noted, white sugar is called for, but if more 
of a caramel flavor is preferred, brown sugar may be used instead 
of white. Maple sugar may also be used in candy of this kind. 
Nuts, fruits, or coconut, or any mixture of these materials, improves 
plain caramels wonderfully. If they are used, they should be stirred 
into the mixture at the time it is removed from the fire. 

Plain Caramels 

3 c. milk 1| c. corn sirup 

3 c. sugar 

The milk used for making caramels should be as rich as possible ; 

in fact, if cream can be used, the candy will be very much better. 

Add half of the milk to the sugar and sirup and put over the fire to 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 33 

cook. Allow this mixture to boil until a soft ball will form when 
dropped in water, stirring when necessary to prevent burning. Then 
gradually add the remaining milk without stopping the boiling if 
possible. Cook again until a temperature of 248 degrees will register 
on the thermometer or a fairly hard ball will form when tried in 
water. In the water test, the ball, when thoroughly cold, should 
have exactly the same consistency as the finished caramels. Toward 
the end of the boiling, it is necessary to stir the mixture almost con- 
stantly to prevent it from burning. When done, pour it out on a 
buttered slab or some other flat surface and allow it to become cool. 
Then cut the candy into squares from | to 1 inch in size, cutting with 
a sliding pressure, that is, bearing down and away from you at the 
same time. 

If the caramels are to be packed or kept for any length of time, it 
is well to wrap them in waxed paper. Before attempting to use 
caramels, however, they should be allowed to stand overnight in a 
cool, dry place, but not in a refrigerator. 

90. Cliocolate Caramels. — When chocolate caramels are 
made, the chocolate should be added just before the cooking is 
finished. The amount of chocolate to be used may be varied to suit 
the taste, but 2 squares are usually considered sufficient for the 
quantities given in the accompanying recipe. 

Chocolate Caramels 

1 c. molasses or 2 Tb. butter 

1 c. maple sirup 2 sq. chocolate 

i c. corn sirup Pinch of salt 

2 c. sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 pt. milk 

Cook the molasses or maple sirup, the corn sirup, and the sugar 
with 1 cupful of the milk until the mixture will form a soft ball in 
cold water. Then add the remainder of the milk and cook until the 
mixture is thick. Add the butter, chocolate, and salt, and cook 
until a hard ball will form in cold water or a temperature of 248 
degrees is reached, stirring constantly to prevent burning. Add the 
vanilla, pour on a buttered surface, cool, cut, and serve. 



W I-C 5—14 



34 CONFECTIONS § 24 



CREAM CANDIES 



NATtIRE OP CREAM CANDIES 

91. There are numerous varieties of cream candies, some of 
which must be made with great care while others may be made 
quickly and easily. For instance, fudge, penuchie, divinity, and sea 
foam are examples of cream candies that do not require long prepa- 
ration, but these must generally be used up quickly, as they do not 
stay soft upon exposure to the air unless it is very moist. On the 
other hand, such cream candies as opera cream, fondant, center 
cream, and orientals require both care and time in their preparation. 
If these are properly looked after, they may be kept for some time. 
In fact, it is necessary that some of them stand for several days 
before they can be made into the numerous varieties to which they 
lend themselves. 

The main point to consider in the preparation of all cream candies 
is that crystallization of the sugar, which is commonly called grain- 
ing, must be prevented if a creamy mixture is to be the result. 
Candies of this kind are not palatable unless they are soft and 
creamy. However, no difficulty will be experienced in preparing 
delicious cream candies if the principles of candy making previously 
given are applied. 



FUDGES AND RELATED CANDIES 

92. Pudge No. 1. — Probably no other candy is so well known 
and so often made as fudge. Even persons little experienced in 
candy making have success with candy of this kind. Another 
advantage of fudge is that it can be made up quickly, very little 
time being required in its preparation. Several varieties of fudge 
may be made, the one given in the accompanying recipe being a 
chocolate fudge containing a small quantity of corn starch. 

Fudge No. 1 
3 c. sugar 2 sq. chocolate 

li c. milk 1 Tb. corn starch 

2 Tb. butter 3 Tb. water 
Pinch of salt 1 tsp. vanilla 

Mix the sugar, milk, butter, and salt and boil until a very soft ball 
will form in water. Then add the chocolate and the com starch. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 35 

which has been moistened with the cold water. Boil to a tempera- 
ture of 236 degrees or until a ball that will hold together well and 
may be handled is formed in cold water. Remove from the fire and 
allow the mixture to cool until there is practically no heat in it. Add 
the vanilla, beat until thick, pour into a buttered pan, cut into 
squares, and serve. 

93. Fudge No. 2. — A fudge containing corn sirup is liked by 
many persons. It has a slightly different flavor from the other 
variety of fudge, but is just as creamy if the directions are carefully 
followed. 

Fudge No. 2 

1 c. milk Pinch of salt 

2 c. sugar 2 sq. chocolate 
i c. corn sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 Tb. butter 
Cook the milk, sugar, corn sirup, butter, and salt until the mixture 
will form a very soft ball when tried in water. Add the chocolate 
and cook again until a soft ball that can be handled will form or the 
thermometer registers 236 degrees. Remove from the fire, cool 
without stirring until entirely cold, and then add the vanilla. Beat 
until creamy, pour into buttered pans, cut into squares, and serve. 

94. Two-Layer Fudge. — A very attractive as well as delicious 
fudge can be had by making it in two layers, one white and one 
dark. The dark layer contains chocolate while the white one is the 
same mixture, with the exception of the chocolate. The layers may 
be arranged with either the white or the dark layer on top, as 
preferred. 

Two-Layer Fudge 

4 c. sugar Pinch of salt 

1^ c. milk 2 sq. chocolate 

6 Tb. corn sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 Tb. butter 
Mix the sugar, milk, corn sirup, butter, and salt, and cook until a 
very soft ball will form. Transfer half of the mixture to another 
pan and add to it the chocolate, which has been melted. Boil each 
mixture until it tests 238 degrees with the thermometer or a soft 
ball that can be handled well will form in cold water. Upon remov- 
ing it from the fire, add the vanilla, putting half into each mixture. 
Set aside to cool and when all the heat is gone, beat one of the mix- 
tures until it becomes creamy and pour it into a buttered pan. Then 



36 CONFECTIONS § 24- 

beat the other one and pour it over the first. Cut into squares and 
serve. 

95. Brown-Sug-ar Fudge. — Fudge in which brown sugar is 
used for the largest part of the sweetening is explained in the 
accompanying recipe. Peanuts are added, but if desired nuts of any 
other kind may be used. 

Brown-Sugar Fudge 

2 c. brown sugar 1 Tb. butter 

1 c. white sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 c. milk I c. chopped peanuts 

Mix the sugar, milk, and butter and boil until a soft ball will form 
in cold water or a temperature of 238 degrees is reached on the 
thermometer. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla, and cool until 
the heat is out of the mixture. Beat, and when the candy begins to 
grow creamy, add the chopped nuts. When sufficiently thick, pour 
into a buttered pan, cut, and serve. 

96. Maple Penuchie. — Almost any kind of maple candy finds 
favor with the majority of persons, but maple penuchie is especially 
well liked. Nuts and coconut are used in it, and these improve the 
flavor very much. 

Maple Penuchie 
3 c. maple sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

i tsp. soda i c. chopped nuts 

1 c. milk i c. shredded coconut 

Few grains of salt 

Into the maple sirup, stir the soda, and add the milk and salt. 
Place over the fire and boil until a soft ball that can be easily handled 
will form in cold water or a temperature of 238 degrees is reached 
on the thermometer. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla, and allow 
the mixture to become entirely cold. Beat, and when it begins to get 
thick, add the nuts and coconut. Continue beating until the candy 
grows stiff but can be poured out. Pour in a buttered pan, cut, and 
serve. 

97. Divinity. — An excellent confection known as divinity can 
be made with very little difficulty if the accompanying recipe is care- 
fully followed. Nuts and raisins are used in this confection, but if 
desired they may be omitted. As divinity is dropped from a spoon 
on oiled paper, care should be taken not to boil the mixture too long. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 37 

or it will be necessary to work very rapidly in order to drop all of it 
before it becomes too dry. 

Divinity 

i c. corn sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

i c. water i c. nuts 

2 c. sugar | c. raisins 

1 egg white 
Boil the sirup, water, and sugar together until a fairly hard ball 
will form in cold water or the mixture registers 240 degrees on the 
thermometer, which is a trifle harder than the fudge mixture. Beat 
the egg white until it is stifif but not dry. Over this pour the hot 
mixture a drop at a time until it can be added faster without cooking 
the egg white. Beat rapidly until all the sirup is added, stir in the 
vanilla, and when fairly stiff add the nuts and raisins. Continue 
beating until the mixture will stand alone, and then drop by spoonfuls 
on oiled paper or a buttered surface. When dry enough to handle, 
divinity may be served. 

98. Sea Foam. — Another candy in which a cooked sirup is 
poured over beaten egg white is known as sea foam. Candies of this 
kind should be served at once, for they are apt to become dry and 
hard if they are allowed to stand. 

Sea Foam 

2 c. light-brown sugar 1 egg white 

^ c. water , 1 tsp. vanilla 

Pinch of salt 
Boil the sugar, water, and salt until a fairly hard ball will form or 
the thermometer registers 240 degrees. Beat the egg white stifif, 
but not dry. Pour the hot sirup over the egg white, a drop at a time 
at first, and then as fast as possible without cooking the egg white. 
Add the vanilla and continue beating the mixture until it will stand 
alone. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered surface or oiled paper. 
When sufficiently dry, remove from the surface and serve. 



FONDANT AND KELATED CREA1HS 

99. Nature of Fondant. — Fondant is the foundation cream 
out of which bonbons and various other fancy candies are made. It 
is also used for stuffing dates, taking the place of the pit. While it 
is not so desirable for the centers of chocolate creams as for most of 
the other candies for which it is used, it can, of course, be coated 



38 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 




Fig. 5 



with chocolate if desired. Some persons have an idea that fondant 
and related candies are difficult to make, but if directions are fol- 

lowered carefully this will 
not be the case. 

100. In the first place, 
it should be remembered 
that the weather is an im- 
portant factor in the suc- 
cess of candy of this kind. 
A clear, cold day should be 
selected, for it is difficult to 
make fondant successfully 
on a warm or a damp day. 
Then, too, it is an excellent 
plan to make more than can be used at one time, for no greater 
labor will be involved in the making of a large amount than a small 
amount and better results may be expected. If the fondant material 
is cared for properly, small quantities of it may be made up as 
desired. Therefore, if convenient equipment is on hand for making 
candies of this type, no less than 2J pounds should be made at one 
time. Five pounds is a preferable amount, but, if desired, 10 pounds 
may be made up at one time, although this amount is abo»it 
as much as one person can handle and even this is somewhat diffi- 
cult for some to work up. 
A little ingenuity on the 
part of the person making 
up the fondant will result 
in many delightful bonbons. 
Candied fruits, nuts, coco- 
nut, and numerous varieties 
of flavoring and coloring 
may be utilized very suc- 
cessfully with fondant. It 
should be remembered, 
however, that bonbons do 
not keep fresh for more 
than a few days or a week Fio. 6 

at the most if they are exposed to the air. If it is desired to keep 
them for any length of time, they should be packed in a tin box, but 




§24 



CONFECTIONS 



39 



when stored in this way, different colors should not be placed next 
to each other or they will mix. 

101. Fondant. — As will be noted, the accompanying recipe 
for fondant calls for 5 pounds of sugar. It is not necessary that all 
of the fondant be worked up at once. Indeed, it is suggested that 
this amount be prepared and then stored so that the fondant may be 
used as needed. If a smaller amount should be desired, half of each 
ingredient may be used. 

Fondant 
5 lb. sugar 6 drops acetic acid or 

1 qt. water i tsp. cream tartar 

Mix the sugar, water, and acetic acid or cream of tartar. Place 
over the fire and, as in Fig. 5, stir until the sugar is dissolved. Just 
before the mixture begins 
to boil, wash down the sides 
of the kettle with a wet 
cloth, as shown in Fig. 6. 
Then place a lid over the 
kettle and cook until almost 
ready to test. Remove the 
cover and, as in Fig. 7, in- 
sert a thermometer, which 
should register 238 degrees. 
If the fondant is to be 
stored for some time, it 
may be boiled to 240 de- 
grees, but for general use a 
mixture that reaches a tem- 
perature of 238 degrees will be the most satisfactory. If the water 
test is applied, as in Fig. 8, the mixture should form a firm ball that 
can be easily held in the fingers. Just before the boiling is completed, 
cool a large platter or a slab and moisten it by wetting it with a damp 
cloth. 

No time should intervene between the end of the boiling and the 
removal of the sirup from the stove, for every second that the sirup 
is allowed to stand over the hot burner before it is poured out will 
raise the temperature. Pour quickly on the platter, as in Fig. 9, and 
do not allow it to drip. If some sirup is left in the pan, utilize it for 
something else, rather than allow it to drop on the surface of the 
candy in the platter or slab. It is at this point that crystallization 




Fig. 7 



40 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 




Fig. 8 



begins, and the fondant, instead of being creamy, will become 

grainy. Cool as quickly as possible, so as to lessen the chances for 

crystallization to begin, and 
do not disturb the sirup in 
any way during the cooling. 
The best way in which to 
accomplish this is to put 
the platter in a cool place 
and make it perfectly level 
before the sirup is poured 
into it. 

When the mixture has 
cooled to the extent that it 
no longer retains any heat, 
it is ready to be stirred. As 
already explained, a putty 
knife or a wallpaper scraper 
is the most satisfactory 
utensil to use for this 

purpose, especially if a large batch is being made. However, 

a small batch may be stirred very successfully with a case knife. 

With whatever utensil is selected, scrape the fondant up into a heap, 

and then, as in Fig. 10, start the working. See that all parts are 

worked alike. Continue the 

operation, occasionally 

scraping off the knife or 

the paddle used. The first 

indication of the creaming 

stage will be a cloudy look 

in the mixture and a slight 

thinning of it, so that the 

work will be easier for a 

few minutes. It will then 

gradually begin to harden, 

and when the end of the 

work is reached the harden- 
ing will progress rapidly. 

At this stage, try to get the 

mass together, see that no loose fragments cling to the platter, and 

pile all into a heap. By the time the working is completed, the candy 




Fig. 9 



§24 



CONFECTIONS 



41 



will be rather hard and will look as if it can never be worked into a 
soft, creamy candy. It will become soft, however, by the proper 
treatment. 

Wring a clean towel or napkin out of cold water, and, as in Fig. 11, 
place it tightly over the mass of fondant and tuck it in securely 




Fig. 10 



around the edges. Allow the candy to stand for an hour in this 
way. At the end of this time it will be sufficiently moist to work in 
any desired way. With a knife or a scraper, break it off into pieces 




Fig. n 



of a size that can be handled well at one time and work each one of 
these soft by squeezing it in the manner shown in Fig. 12. When all 



42 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 




Fig. 12 



of the pieces have been worked soft, pack them into a bowl and con- 
tinue working until all the fondant has been worked together and is 

soft. Over the top of the bowl, 
as shown in Fig. 13, place a damp 
cloth and cover this with a plate 
or an earthen cover. Set away in 
some place where it will remain 
cool, but will not become too 
moist, until it is desired for 
further use. 

The four recipes that follow 
show how fondant can be made 
up into attractive as well as deli- 
cious confections. They will 
doubtless give the housewife other ideas as to ways of preparing 
candies from this foundation material. 

102. Bonbons. — In a broad sense, bonbons mean candy or 
confections in general, but it is also the name of candies made out 
of colored and flavored fondant. Sometimes they are made small 
and dainty and are decorated with a nut meat or a piece of 
maraschino or candied cherry or candied pineapple. Again, centers 
may be made that contain coconut, nuts, figs, dates, raisins, etc., and 
these then dipped in some 
of the fondant that has 
been colored, flavored, and 
melted. 

103. W hen bonbons 
are to be made, remove 
fondant in pieces from the 
utensil in which it has been 
stored. Work it with the 
hands as it was worked 
when put away and add the 
desired coloring and flavor- 
ing at this time. If simple 
bonbons are to be made, Fig. 13 

form the colored and flavored fondant into tiny balls, place them on 
oiled paper, and press a nut or a piece of maraschino or candied 
cherry or candied pineapple on top. 




§24 



CONFECTIONS 



43 



104. To make more elaborate bonbons, form, as in Fig. 14, 
small round centers out of the fondant to which have been added such 
materials as dates, figs, 
raisins, nuts, or coco- 
nut, or any combination 
of these. Only enough 
fondant should be used 
to make the other ma- 
terials stick together. 
Then, in a double boil- 
er, color, flavor, and 
melt some of the fon- 
dant and, with a coat- 
ing or other fork, drop 
the centers into this 
melted cream. When 
thoroughly coated, ^"=- ^'* 

remove, and place on waxed paper. While warm, a piece of nut or 
candied fruit may be placed on the top of each one. If it is desired 
not to use fondant in the centers, the nuts or candied fruits them- 





FiG. 15 

selves may be dipped into the melted bonbon cream and then placed 
on waxed paper to harden. 

105. Reception Wafers. — Thin wafers made of fondant are 
a confection much used at parties, receptions, and similar social 



M CONFECTIONS § 24 

gatherings. One variety of these is colored pink and flavored with 
wintergreen, while another is flavored with peppermint and not 
colored in any way. Other colors and flavors may also be made if 
desired, but the usual kinds are the pink and white ones. 

Divide the mass of fondant to be used into two parts and color 
one of these a pale pink. Flavor the pink mass with wintergreen and 
the white one with peppermint. Put one of these in a double boiler 
and allow it to melt until it is soft enough to pour. Then, as in 
Fig. 15, with a dessert spoon or a tablespoon, drop the melted fon- 
dant on a smooth surface in sufficient amounts to make wafers about 
the size of a quarter. Drop quickly and as accurately as possible so 
that the wafers will be the same size and shape. Allow them to stand 
until cold and set. 

Sometimes it will be found that two wafers can be dropped from 
the same spoonful before the material becomes too cold to pour, but 
usually it is necessary to dip a fresh spoonful for each wafer. As 
the fondant hardens on the back of the spoon it should be scraped 
off and put back into the double boiler. A comparatively small 
amount of fondant should be melted at one time in order to provide 
against its becoming sugary, but if it shows any signs of this condi- 
tion the double boiler should be emptied and thoroughly cleaned 
before more of the fondant is melted in it. 

106, Rainbow Delight. — An especially attractive candy that 
has fondant for its foundation is rainbow delight. As may be 
inferred from its name, candy of this kind is in several colors. 

To make rainbow delight, divide fondant into three parts. Flavor 
one with vanilla and to it add chopped nuts. Flavor the second with 
strawberry, color it pink, and, if desired, add shredded coconut. To 
the third, add melted bitter chocolate until it is as dark as preferred. 
Line a small bread pan or a box as smoothly as possible with waxed 
paper, place the white fondant in the bottom, and press it down into 
a layer. Over this put the chocolate fondant, press this into a layer, 
and on top of it place the pink candy. After making the mass 
smooth and even, allow it to remain where it will be cold until it is 
set. Then remove it from the pan or box by turning it out on a sur- 
face that has been slightly dusted with confectioner's sugar. Have 
coating chocolate melted and cover the surface of three sides of the 
candy with a thick layer of the chocolate. If, when the chocolate 
becomes dry and hard, it seems a little thin, give it a second coating. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 45 

When it is entirely cold, turn the candy over and coat the remaining 
side. To serve, cut into slices and cut each slice into pieces. 

107. Tuttl-Frutti Rolls. — Another very good candy that can 
be made from fondant is tutti-frutti roll. Secure nuts, cherries, 
candied pineapple, and citron, chop them fine, and to them add 
shredded coconut. Work these in any quantity desired into the 
fondant until all are worked through evenly and then flavor with 
vanilla. Shape the mass into a roll and let it stand until it is well set. 
Then coat it with coating chocolate. When it has become cold, turn 
it over and coat the bottom. To serve tutti-frutti roll, cut it into 
slices. 

108. Opera Cream. — No more delicious cream candy can be 
made than that known as opera cream. This may be colored and 
flavored in many different ways or made up in various forms. When 
chocolate is added to it, a better fudge than the ordinary kinds is 
the result. Sufficient time should be allowed for the making of 
opera cream, for it is necessary that this candy stand for several 
hours before it is worked up. 

Opera Cream 
4 c. sugar 1 pt. thin cream 

^ tsp. cream of tartar Vanilla 

2 Tb. corn sirup 

Mix the sugar and the cream of tartar, add the sirup and cream, 
and cook over a hot fire. Watch closely to see whether the cream 
looks as if it might curd, and if it does, beat rapidly with a rotary 
beater. Do not stir after the boiling has begun unless it is necessary 
to keep the mixture from sticking to the pan. Boil until a very hard 
ball will form in water or until it registers 240 degrees on the 
thermometer. Moisten a large, flat platter or a marble slab, 
pour the mixture on it, and allow it to remain until it is entirely cool, 
disturbing it in no way during this cooling. When cool, work up 
with a putty knife or a similar utensil in the same manner as for 
fondant until it becomes hard and creamy. Place all in a heap 
in the center of the slab or platter and cover closely with a damp 
cloth, a clean towel being desirable for this purpose. Allow it to 
stand for about 2 hours, and then work it with the hands, being care- 
ful to remove any lumps that it might contain. 

The cream is now ready to be worked up in any desirable way. 
Divide it into small batches, and then flavor and color it or work 



46 CONFECTIONS § 24 

melted chocolate into it. Press it into a layer about 1 inch thick in a 
shallow box lined with waxed paper or a pan that has been buttered, 
cut it into squares, and allow it to stand for a few hours. Then 
remove and serve. 

109. Center Cream. — ^An excellent cream candy for the cen- 
ters of chocolates is given in the accompanying recipe. As molds 
are necessary in its preparation, it is more difficult to make than 
fondant, but success can be had with this as well as with other 
candies. 

The cream used for these centers may be colored and flavored in 
any desirable way. It is somewhat firm while being handled, but 
will be found to soften after it has been made up and coated. It 
can be handled better if it is made 3 or 4 days before it is desired for 
use. As will be noted, the recipe is given in a fairly large quantitj', 
for it is preferable to make a good-sized amount of the cream at a 
time ; but it need not all be used up at once. 

Center Cream 
8 c. sugar 3 c. water 

2 c. glucose or corn sirup 
Mix the sugar, glucose or corn sirup, and water and proceed in 
the same way as for fondant. Boil until the thermometer registers 
234 or 236 degrees or a ball that is not quite so firm as for fondant 
will form in cold water. Pour on a moistened platter or slab to cool. 
Then cream in the same manner as for fondant, but allow more time 
for this part of the work, as the glucose does not cream rapidly. 
Just before it hardens, pour it into a crock or a bowl, place a damp 
cloth over the top of the bowl, and put away for a couple of days. 

110. The molds for shaping center creams are formed in a thick 
layer of corn starch by means of a device that may be bought from 
a candy-making supply house or made at home. This device con- 
sists of a long strip with projections that may be pushed into the com 
starch to make neatly shaped holes, or molds. These projections 
are spaced about 1 inch apart, so that the walls between the corn- 
starch molds will not fall down when the center-cream mixture is 
poured into them. A long stick, such as a ruler or a yardstick, and 
either corks of different sizes or plaster of Paris may be employed 
to make such a device. If corks are to be used, simply glue them to 
the stick, spacing them about 1 inch apart. If plaster of Paris is to 
be used, fill small receptacles about the size and shape of chocolate 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS il 

creams with a thin mixture of plaster of Paris and water and allow 
it to set. When hard, remove the plaster-of-Paris shapes and glue 
them to the stick, spacing them the same distance as mentioned for 
the corks. The home-made device will answer the same purpose as 
one that is bought, and is much less expensive. 

111. When it is desired to make up the creams, sift corn starch 
into a pan to form a thick layer, making it perfectly level on top with 
the straight edge of a knife. Then make depressions, or molds, in 
the corn starch by pressing into it the device just described. Make 
as many rows of molds as the space will permit, but do not make 
them so close together as to weaken the walls between the molds. 
Melt some of the center cream in a double boiler, color and flavor as 
desired, and pour into the molds made in the corn starch. Allow the 
centers to remain until they become hard in the molds. Then pick 
them out, blow off the corn starch, and set aside until ready to coat. 
Continue making centers in this way until all the cream is used up, 
resifting the corn starch and making new molds each time. Then 
coat with chocolate in the usual way. 

112. Orientals. — Delicious chocolate creams known as orientals 
can be made by the amateur if a little care is exercised. It should be 
remembered, however, that these cannot be made successfully on a 
damp day and that it is somewhat difficult to make them in warm 
weather. A clear, cold day is required for satisfactory results. 
Unlike fondant, these creams must be made up at once, so it will be 
necessary to allow sufficient time not only for the cooking and cream- 
ing processes, but also for the making and coating as well. After 
being made up, however, they should be allowed to stand for 3 or 4 
days, as they, like many other cream candies, improve upon standing. 

Since these centers are very sweet, a slightly bitter chocolate is 
the best kind with which to coat them. Confectioner's bitter-sweet 
chocolate will be found to be the most satisfactory, but if this cannot 
be procured, bitter chocolate may be mixed with sweet coating 
chocolate. 

Orientals 
5 c. granulated sugar 6 drops acetic acid 
2 c. water 2 egg whites 

1 tsp. glycerine Vanilla 

Put the sugar, water, and glycerine over the fire and stir until thfe 
sugar is dissolved. Wash down the sides of the kettle with a cloth. 



48 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 



and just as the mixture begins to boil, add the acetic acid. Place a 
cover over the pan and allow the mixture to boil until a temperature 
of 238 degrees is reached on the thermometer or a firm ball that can 
be easily held in the fingers will form. Pour out on a slab or a 
platter to cool, and when perfectly cool begin to work it as for 
fondant, but first beat the egg whites until they are stiff. As soon as 
the candy is collected into a mass, pour the egg whites over it, as 
shown in Fig. 16. Continue to work the candy until all of the egg 
white is worked in. Add the vanilla during this process. If the 
mixture seems stiff and the eggs do not work in, continue with a 
little patience, for they will eventually combine with the candy. 
Because of the eggs, oriental cream is whiter than bonbon cream, 




Fig. 16 

and. so it is a little difficult to tell just when it is beginning to get 
creamy. However, it softens a little as it begins to set, just as 
fondant does. At this point work slowly, and as it hardens get it 
into a mass in the center of the slab. When completely worked, it 
will not be so hard as fondant. Make it up at once into small, round 
centers, and as they are made place them on pieces of oiled paper to 
become dry. Chopped nuts may be added to the filling if desired 
before it is made up. As soon as it is possible to handle the centers, 
coat them with chocolate in the usual way. Be careful to cover the 
entire surface with chocolate, for otherwise the quality of the center 
will deteriorate. A good plan is to wrap candies of this kind in 
waxed paper, especially if they are to be packed in boxes, for then 
they will not be so likely to crush. 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 49 

113. Uncooked Fondant. — A fairly satisfactory substitute 
for fondant can be made by moistening confectioner's sugar with 
egg white or sweet cream. A very fine sugar must be secured for 
this purpose or the candy will be granular, and even then the result 
will not be so satisfactory as in the case of cooked fondant properly 
made. Uncooked fondant, too, is more limited in its uses than 
cooked fondant, for it cannot be melted and used for bonbons. 

Uncooked Fondant 
XXXX sugar Egg white or sweet cream 

Roll and sift the sugar if it is lumpy, making it as fine as possible. 
Beat the egg white just enough to break it up or pour into a bowl 
the desired amount of sweet cream, remembering that very little 
liquid will moisten considerable sugar. Add the sugar a little at a 
time, beating all the while, until a sufficient amount has been used to 
make the mixture dry enough to handle with the fingers. Then 
flavor and color in any desired way and make up as if it were 
fondant. 



MISCELLANEOUS CONFECTIONS 

114. Stuffed Dates. — Dates from which the seeds have been 
removed and which have been filled with nuts or fondant or a com- 
bination of both are a confection that meets with much favor. The 
uncooked fondant is entirely satisfactory for this purpose, but if 
some of the other is on hand it will make an especially fine confec- 
tion. Regardless of what is used for a filling, though, the prepara- 
tion of such dates is the same. 

First wash the dates in warm water and rinse them in cold water. 
Then, if there is time, spread them out in a single layer on a cloth 
and let them remain until they are entirely dry. Cut a slit in the 
side of each one with a knife and remove the seed. If nuts, such as 
English walnuts, are to be used for the filling, place half a nut meat 
in the cavity left by the seed and press the date together over it. In 
case fondant and nuts are to be used, chop the nuts and mix them 
with the fondant. Coconut may be used in place of the nuts if 
desired or the fondant may be used alone. Shape the fondant into 
tiny balls, press one tightly into th cavity left by the seed, and close 
the date partly over the filling. When all the dates have been stufifed, 
roll them in sugar, preferably granulated, and serve. 

W I—'"- s— '= 



50 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 



115. Salted Nuts. — Nuts to which salt has been added are an 
excellent contrast to the sweet confections that have been described. 
At social gatherings, luncheons, dinners, etc., they are often served 
in connection with some variety of bonbon and many times they 
replace the sweet confection entirely. Peanuts and almonds are 
the nuts generally used for salting. If peanuts are to be salted, the 
unroasted ones should be purchased and then treated in exactly the 
same way as almonds. Before nuts are salted, they must first be 
browned, and this may be accomplished in three different ways : 
on the top of the stove, in the oven, and in deep fat. Preparing them 
in deep fat is the most satisfactory method, for by it all the nuts 
reach the same degree of brownness. 

116. First blanch the nuts by pouring boiling water over them 
and allowing them to remain in the water until the skins can be 
removed; then slip off the skins without breaking the nuts apart if 
possible. Spread the nuts out on a towel to dry. 

If the deep-fat method of browning them is to be followed, have in 
a small saucepan or kettle a sufficient quantity of cooking fat or oil. 




Fig. 17 

Allow it to become as hot as for frying doughnuts or croquettes, 
place the nuts in a sieve, and fry them in the fat until they become a 
delicate brown. Pour them out into a pan, sprinkle them with salt, 
cool, and serve. 

To brown nuts on top of the stove, heat a heavy frying pan over a 
slow fire and into it put a small amount of fat. Add the nuts and 
stir constantly until they are browned as evenly as possible. This 
part of the work requires considerable time, for the more slowly it is 
done the less likely are the nuts to have burned spots. Salt the nuts 



§ 24 CONFFXTIONS 51 

before removing them from the pan, turn them out into a dish, 
cool, and serve. 

It is more difficult to brown nuts equally by the oven method, but 
sometimes it is desired to prepare them in this way. Put the nuts 
with a little fat into a pan and set the pan in a hot oven. Stir 
frequently until they are well browned, salt, cool, and serve. 

117. Oriental Delight. — An excellent confection that can be 
prepared without cooking is known as oriental delight. It is com- 
posed of fruit, nuts, and coconut, which are hel-d together with egg 
white and powdered sugar. When thoroughly set and cut into 
squares, oriental delight appears as in Fig. 17. 

Oriental Delight 
i lb. dates i c. Eng-lish walnuts 

■J lb. raisins 1 egg white 

i lb. pressed figs Powdered sugar 

■J c. shredded coconut 
Wash all the fruits, put them together, and steam for about 
15 minutes. Then put these with the coconut and nuts through a 
food chopper or chop them all in a bowl with a chopping knife. 
When the whole is reduced to a pulpy mass, beat the egg white 
slightly, add sufficient sugar to make a very soft paste, and mix 
with the fruit mixture. If it is very sticky, continue to add powdered 
sugar and mix well until it is stiff enough to pack in a layer in a pan. 
Press down tight and when it is set mark in squares, remove from 
the pan, and serve as a confection. 

118. Marslimallows. — To be able to make marshmallows 
successfully is the desire of many persons. At first thought, this 
seems somewhat of a task, but in reality it is a simple matter if the 
directions are carefully followed. Upon being cut into squares, the 
marshmallows may be served plain or they may be coated with 
chocolate or, after standing several days, dipped into a warm caramel 

mixture. 

Marshmallows 

8 tsp. gelatine Few grains salt 

1^ c. water 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 c. sugar J Tb. corn starch 

Soak the gelatine in one-half of the water for 5 minutes. Cook 
the sugar and the remaining water until it will spin a thread 
when dropped from a spoon. Remove from the fire and add 



52 CONFECTIONS § 24 

the gelatine. When partly cold, add the salt and the flavor- 
ing. Beat with an egg whip, cooling the mixture as rapidly 
as possible, until it is light and fluffy. When the mixture is 
thick, add the corn starch slowly, working it in thoroughly. 
Then pour out on a flat surface that is well dusted with con- 
fectioner's sugar. Let stand in a cool place until thoroughly 
chilled. Cut in squares by pressing the blade of a knife down 
through the mass, but do not slide it along when cutting. 
Remove the pieces, dust on all sides with powdered sugar, and 
serve. 

119. Nougat. — The confection known as nougat consists 
usually of a paste filled with chopped nuts. Both com sirup and 
honey are used in the preparation of this candy. Generally it is 
merely flavored with vanilla, but if chocolate flavoring is preferred 
it may be added. 

Nougat 
3 c. sugar 2 egg whites 

IJ c. corn sirup 1 tsp. vanilla 

i c. strained honey 2 c. nut meats 

1 c. water 

Put the sugar, com sirup, honey, and water together and cook 
until a temperature of 260 degrees is reached or a brittle ball will 
form in water. Beat the egg whites stiff and pour the mass slowly 
into them, beating constantly until the mixture grows stiflf and waxy. 
Then add the vanilla and nut meats. Mix well and pour into a small 
box or pan lined with waxed paper. If chocolate is to be used for 
flavoring, add the desired amount just before pouring the mixture 
into the pan. When it has cooled sufficiently, cut in squares or slices. 

120. Candled Peel. — Another favorite confection and one 
that is much used in connection with candies for social functions is 
candied orange, lemon, and grapefruit peel. After being removed 
from the fruit, the peel should be well scraped and then cut into 
thin strips. In this form, it is ready to coat with sirup. 

Candied Peel 
i doz. lemons, oranges, -J c. water 

or grapefruit 1 c. sugar 

Remove the skin in quarters from the fruit, scrape off as much of 
the white as possible, and cut each piece of skin into narrow strips. 
Put these to cook in cold water, boil them until they may be easily 
pierced with a fork, and then drain off the water. Add the water to 



§ 24 CONFECTIONS 53 

the sugar and cook until a thread will form when the sirup is dropped 
from a spoon. Add the cooked peel to the sirup and cook for 
5 to 10 minutes. Drain and dredge in granulated sugar. Spread 
in a single layer to dry. 

121. Pop-Corn Balls. — Pop corn in any form is always an 
attractive confection, especially to young persons. It is often stuck 
together with a sirup mixture and made into balls. In this form, it 
is an excellent confection for the holiday season. 

To make pop-corn balls, first shell the corn and pop it. Then 
make a sirup with half as much water as sugar and cook it until it 
will spin a thread. Have the pop corn in a large bowl and pour the 
sirup over it, working quickly so that all the sirup can be used up 
while it is warm. To form the balls, take up a large double, handful 
and press firmly together. If the sirup sticks to the hands, dip them 
into cold water so as to moisten them somewhat before' the next 
handful is taken up. Work in this manner until all the corn is made 
into balls. 

122. Cracker Jack. — Another pop-corn confection that is 
liked by practically every one is cracker jack. In this variety, pop 
corn and peanuts are combined and a sirup made of molasses and 
sugar is used to hold them together. 

Cracker Jack 
4 qt. popped corn 1 c. molasses 

1 c. shelled, roasted peanuts ^ c. sugar 

Put the popped corn and the peanuts together in a receptacle 
large enough to hold them easily. Cook the molasses and the sugar 
until the sirup spins a thread. Then pour this over the popped corn 
and peanuts and mix well until it becomes cold and hard. 



SERVING CANDY 

123. The best time to serve candy is when it will interfere least 
with the digestion, and this is immediately after meals. A dish of 
candy placed on the table with the dessert adds interest to any meal. 
It should be passed immediately after the dessert is eaten. 

Various kinds of bonbon dishes in which to serve candies are to be 
had, some of them being very attractive. Those having a cover are 
intended for candy that is to be left standing for a time, while open 



54 



CONFECTIONS 



§24 



dishes should be used for serving. Fig. 18 shows candy tastefully 
arranged on a silver dish having a handle. Dishes made of glass or 
china answer the purpose equally as well as silver ones, and if a 





^ 




^ES 


•' ■^.■xwjw 


^0gj0gj0lt/flSfSffl^WJ^'^''' 



Fig. 18 



bonbon dish is not in supply a small plate will do very well. A paper 
or a linen doily on the dish or plate adds to the attractiveness, as does 
also the manner in which the candy is arranged. 



CONFECTIONS 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) What are confections? 

(2) Discuss the use of confections in the diet of children and adults. 

(3) (o) What food substance is found in the largest proportion in candy? 
(6) Are candies high or low in food value? 

(4) Discuss briefly the kinds and qualities of sugar and their uses. 

(5) What is the value of glucose in candy making? 

(6) What kinds of flavorings are the most desirable? 

(7) What care should be exercised in the use of colorings in candy? 

(8) (o) What acids are used in candy making? (fe) Why are these acids 
used? 

(9) Of what value are milk, cream, and butter in the making of candy? 

(10) What may be said of the selection of a pan for cooking candy? 

(11) (o) What methods are used for testing candies? (6) Which of these 
methods is the most accurate? 

(12) (o) How should the mixture be poured out to cool when a creamy 
candy is being made? (6) To what point should the sirup be cooled before 
the stirring is begun? 

(13) (a) How should chocolate be melted? (6) How should coating 
with chocolate be done? 

(14) How should waxed paper be cut for wrapping candies? 

(15) Discuss the ingredients generally used for taffy. 

(16) On what do good results in caramel ■pjaking depend? 

(17) What should be guarded against in the making of all cream candies? 

(18) (o) What is fondant? (,b) How may fondant be stored for future 
use? 

(19) How should dates be prepared for stuffing? 

(20) What is the best time for the serving of candy? 

^24 



BEVERAGES 



BEVERAGES IN THE DIET 



NATURE AND CLASSES OF BEVERAGES 

1. Throughout the Hfetime of every person there is constant 
need for solid food to preserve health and prolong life ; and, just as 
such food is necessary to satisfy the requirements of the body, so, 
too, is there need for water. As is well known, the composition of 
the body is such that it contains more liquid than solid material, the 
tissues and the bones weighing much less than the liquid. A tre- 
mendous amount of this liquid is continually being lost through the 
kidneys, through each pore in the skin, and even through every breath 
that is exhaled, and if continued good health is to be maintained 
this loss must be constantly made up. This loss is greater in 
very hot weather or in the performance of strenuous exercise than 
under ordinary conditions, which accounts for the fact that more 
than the usual amount of liquid must be supplied during such times. 
So necessary is liquid refreshment that the body cannot exist without 
it for any great length of time. In fact, if the supply were cut off 
so that no more could be obtained, the body would begin to use its 
own fluids and death would soon occur. A person can live for many 
days without solid food, but it is not possible to live for more than a 
very few days without drink. 

2. Nature's way of serving notice that the body is in need of 
liquid refreshment is through the sensation of thirst. Satisfying 
thirst not only brings relief, but produces a decidedly pleasant sensa- 
tion ; however, the real pleasure of drinking is not experienced until 
one has become actually thirsty. 

The various liquids by which thirst may be slaked, or quenched, 
are known as beverages. The first one of these given to man was 

SOPYRISHTED BY INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY, ALL RIOHTS RESKRVKO 

525 



2 BEVERAGES § 25 

water, and it is still the chief beverage, for it is used both alone and 
as a foundation for numerous other beverages that are calculated 
to be more tasty, but whose use is liable in some cases to lead to 
excessive drinking or to the partaking of substances that are injuri- 
ous to health. 

3. The beverages that are in common use may be placed in three 
general classes : alcoholic, stimulating, and non-stimulating. The 
alcoholic beverages include such drinks as beer, wine, whisky, etc., 
some of which are used more in one country than in another. In 
fact, almost every class of people known has an alcoholic beverage 
that has come to be regarded as typical of that class. Alcoholic 
fermentation is supposed to have been discovered by accident, and 
when its effect became known it was recognized as a popular means 
of supplying a beverage and some stimulation besides. Under stimu- 
lating beverages come tea, coffee, and cocoa. These are in common 
use all over the world, certain ones, of course, finding greater favor 
in some countries than in others. With the exception of cocoa, 
they provide very little food value. In contrast with these drinks 
are the non-stimulating beverages, which include fruit punches, soft 
drinks, and all the milk-and-egg concoctions. These are usually very 
refreshing, and the majority of them contain sufficient nourishment 
to recommend their frequent use. 



WATER IN BEVERAGES 

4. Many persons restrict the term beverages, contending that it 
refers to refreshing or flavored drinks. It should be remembered, 
however, that this term has a broader meaning and refers to any 
drink taken for the purpose of quenching thirst. Water is the 
simplest beverage and is in reality the foundation of nearly all 
drinks, for it is the water in them that slakes thirst. Flavors, such 
as fruit juice, tea, coffee, etc., are combined with water to make the 
beverages more tempting, and occasionally such foods as eggs, 
cream, and starchy materials are added to give food value; but the 
first and foremost purpose of all beverages is to introduce water into 
the system and thus satisfy thirst. 

5. Kinds of "Water. — Inasmuch as water is so important an 
element in the composition of beverages, every one should endeavor 
to become familiar with the nature of each of its varieties. 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 3 

Soft water is water that contains very little mineral matter. A 
common example of soft water is rainwater. 

Hard water is water that contains a large quantity of lime in 
solution. Boiling such water precipitates, or separates, some of the 
lime and consequently softens the water. An example of the precipi- 
tation of lime in water is the deposit that can be found in any 
teakettle that has been used for some time. 

Mineral water is water containing a large quantity of such 
minerals as will go in solution in water, namely, sulphur, iron, 
lime, etc. 

Distilled, water is water from which all minerals have been 
removed. To accomplish this, the water is converted into steam and 
then condensed. This is the purest form of water. 

Carbonated water is water that has had carbon-dioxide, or 
carbonic-acid, gas forced into it. The soda water used at soda 
fountains is an example of this variety. Carbonated water is bottled 
and sold for various purposes. 

6. Necessity for Pure Water. — The extensive use made of 
water in the diet makes it imperative that every effort be exerted to 
have the water supply as pure as possible. The ordinary city filter 
and the smaller household filter can be depended on to remove sand, 
particles of leaves, weeds, and such foreign material as is likely to 
drop into the water from time to time, but they will not remove 
disease germs from an unclean supply. Therefore, if there is any 
doubt about water being pure enough to use for drinking purposes, 
it should be boiled before it is used. Boiling kills any disease 
germs that the water may contain, but at the same time it gives the 
water a very flat taste because of the loss of air in boiling. However, 
as is mentioned in Essentials of Cookery, Part 1, the natural taste 
may be restored by beating the boiled water with an egg beater or by 
partly filling a jar, placing the lid on, and shaking it vigorously. 



RELATION OF BEVERAGES TO MEALS 

7. About one-third of all the water required each day is taken 
in the form of beverages with the meals. It was formerly thought 
that liquids dilute the gastric juice and so should be avoided with 
meals. However, it has been learned that beverages, either warm or 
cold, with the exception of an occasional case, may be taken with 



4 BEVERAGES § 25 

meals without injury. The chief point to remember is that it is 
unwise to drink beverages either too hot or too cold. For the best 
results, their temperature should be rather moderate. 

8. Foods that may be dissolved in water can be incorporated in 
a beverage to make it nutritious. With many persons, as in the case 
of small children and invalids, this is often the only means there is 
of giving them nourishment. In serving beverages to healthy per- 
sons, the food value of the meal should be taken into consideration. 
The beverage accompanying a heavy meal should be one having 
very little food value; whereas, in the case of a light meal, the 
beverage can be such as will give additional nutrition. For instance, 
hot chocolate, which is very nutritious, would not be a good beverage 
to serve with a meal consisting of soup, meat, vegetables, salad, and 
dessert, but it would be an excellent drink to serve with a lunch that 
is made up of light sandwiches, salad, and fruit. 



ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 

9. Alcoholic beverages are made by allowing yeast to 
ferment the starch or the sugar in a certain kind of food, thus pro- 
ducing acid and alcohol. Grains and fruits are used oftenest for 
this purpose. In some cases, the fermentation is allowed to continue 
long enough to use up all the starch or sugar in the material selected, 
and in this event the resulting beverages are sour and contain a great 
deal of alcohol. In others, the fermentation is stopped before all 
the sugar or starch is utilized, and then the beverage is sweet and 
contains less alcohol. The higher the percentage of alcohol a bev- 
erage contains, the more intoxicating it is and the more quickly will 
a state of intoxication be reached by drinking it. 

10. Harmful Effects of Alcoholic Beverages. — In years 
past, alcoholic beverages were considered to be a necessity for medic- 
inal purposes in hospitals and in homes, but this use of them has 
been very greatly decreased. In fact, it is believed by most authori- 
ties that often more harm than good is done by using alcoholic bever- 
ages as a medical stimulant or as a carrier for some drug. As these 
drinks are harmful in this respect, so are they detrimental to health 
when they are taken merely as beverages. It is definitely known that 
alcohol acts as a food when it enters the body, for it is burned just 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 5 

as a carbohydrate would be and thus produces heat. That this action 
takes place very rapidly can be detected by the warmth that is pro- 
duced almost immediately when the drink is taken. Some of it is 
lost through the breath and the kidneys without producing heat, and 
it also acts upon the blood vessels near the skin in such a way as to 
lose very quickly the heat that is produced. It is never conserved 
and used gradually as the heat from food is used. The taking of 
alcohol requires much work on the part of the kidneys, and this 
eventually injures them. It also hardens the liver and produces a 
disease known as hob-nailed, or gin, liver. In addition, if used con- 
tinuously, this improper means of nourishing the body produces an 
excessive amount of fat. Because of these harmful effects on the 
various organs, its too rapid loss from the body, and the fact that it 
does not build tissue, alcohol is at best a very poor food and should 
be avoided on all occasions. 

11. Kinds of Alcoholic Beverages. — In spite of the truth 
that beverages containing alcohol are found to be harmful, many of 
them are in common use. Following are the names of these, together 
with a short account of their preparation : 

Beer is an alcoholic beverage made from certain grains, usually 
barley, by malting the grain, boiling the product with hops, and 
finally fermenting it with yeast. The malting of grains, it will be 
remembered, is explained in Cereals. The hops are used to give the 
beer a desirable flavor. This beverage is characterized by a low 
percentage of alcohol, containing only 2 to 5 per cent., and conse- 
quently is not very intoxicating. 

"Wine is a beverage that is usually made from grapes, although 
berries and other small fruits are occasionally used. It contains 
from 7 to 16 per cent, of alcohol and is therefore more intoxicating 
than beer. The wines in which all of the sugar is fermented are 
known as sour, or dry, wines, while those in which not all of the 
sugar has been fermented are called sweet wines. Many classes of 
wines are made and put on the market, but those most commonly 
used are claret, sherry, hock, port, and Madeira. 

Brandy is an alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. It is very 
intoxicating, for it consists of little besides alcohol and water, the 
percentage of alcohol varying from 40 to 50 per cent. Upon being 
distilled, brandy is colorless, but it is then stored in charred wooden 
casks, from which it takes its characteristic color. 



6 BEVERAGES § 25 

Gin is a practically colorless liquor distilled from various grains 
and flavored with oil of juniper or some other flavoring substance, 
such as anise, orange peel, or fennel. It contains from 30 to 40 per 
cent, of alcohol. It is usually stored in glass bottles, which do not 
impart a color to it. 

Rum is an alcoholic beverage made by fermenting cane sugar, 
molasses, cane juice, or the scum and waste from sugar refineries 
and then distilling the product. It contains from 45 to 50 per cent, 
of alcohol, and has a disagreeable odor when it is distilled. This 
odor, however, is removed by storing the rum in wooden receptacles 
for a long period of time. 

Cordials are beverages made by steeping fruits or herbs in 
brandy. Absinthe, which is barred from the United States because 
it contains wormwood, a very injurious substance, is a well-known 
cordial. Besides being extremely intoxicating, it overstimulates the 
heart and the stomach if taken in even comparatively small quantities. 

Whiisky is an alcoholic beverage obtained by distilling fermented 
grain several times until it has a strength of 40 to 50 per cent, of 
alcohol. Then it is flavored and stored in charred casks to ripen 
and become mellow, after which it has a characteristic color. As 
can readily be understood, distilled liquors contain the highest per- 
centage of alcohol. 

STIMULATING BEVERAGES 



NATURE OF STIMULATING BEVERAGES 

12. Stimulating beverages are those which contain a drug 
that stimulates the nervous and the circulatory system; that is, one 
that acts on the nerves and the circulation in such a way as to make 
them active and alert. Common examples of these beverages are 
coffee, tea, and cocoa or chocolate. If the nerves are in need of rest, 
it is dangerous to stimulate them with such beverages, for, as the 
nervous system indirectly aflfects all the organs of the body, the 
effects of this stimulation are far-reaching. The immediate effect of 
the stimulant in these beverages is to keep the drinker awake, thus 
causing sleeplessness, or temporary insomnia. If tea and coffee are 
used habitually and excessively, headaches, dull brains, and many 
nervous troubles are liable to result. 



§25 



BEVERAGES 



13. The stimulant that is found in the leaves of tea is known as 
theine; that found in coffee beans, caffeine; and that found in cacao 
beans, from which cocoa and chocolate are made, theobromine. Each 
of these stimulants is extracted by the hot liquid that is always used 
to make the beverage. It is taken up by the liquid so quickly that 
the method used to prepare the beverage makes little difference as 
to the amount obtained. In other words, tea made by pouring water 
through the leaves will contain nearly as much of the stimulant as 
tea made by boiling the leaves. 

14. In addition to the stimulant, tea and coffee contain tannin, 
or tannic acid, an acid that is also obtained from the bark of certain 
trees and used in the tanning of animal hides in the preparation of 
leather. Tannin is not taken so quickly from tea and coffee by the 
hot liquid used in preparing the beverage as is the stimulant, so that 

TABLE I 



STIMUIjANT anb 


TANNIC ACID PRESENT IN STIMUIiATING 
BEVERAGES 


Beverage 


Stimulant 


Quantity of 

Stimulant 

Grains 


Quantity of 

Tannic Acid 

Grains 


Coffee 


Caffeine 

Theine 


2 to 3 
lto2 
Itoli 


1 to 2 




1 to 4 


Cocoa or chocolate . . 


Theobromine .... 


ito 1 



the longer tea leaves and coffee grounds remain in the liquid, the 
more tannic acid will be drawn out. This fact can be detected by 
the bitter flavor and the puckery feeling in the mouth after drinking 
tea that has been allowed to remain on the leaves or coffee that has 
stood for some time -on the grounds. Tannic acid has a decidedly 
bad effect on the digestion in the stomach, so that if improperly pre- 
pared tea or coffee is indulged in habitually, it may cause stomach 
disorders. 

15. The quantity of stimulant and tannic acid contained in an 
ordinary cup of tea, coffee, and cocoa or chocolate is given in 
Table I. As this table shows, the quantity, which is given in grains, 
does not vary considerably in the different beverages and is not 
present in such quantity as to be harmful, unless these beverages are 
indulged in to excess. 



8 BEVERAGES § 25 

To reduce the quantity of caffeine contained in coffee has been 
the aim of many coffee producers. As a result, there are on the 
market a number of brands of coffee that have been put through a 
process that removes practically all the caffeine. The beverage made 
from coffee so treated is less harmful than that made from ordinary 
coffee, and so far as the flavor is concerned this loss of caffeine does 
not change it. 

16. Neither tea nor coffee possesses any food value. Unless 
sugar or cream is added, these beverages contain nothing except 
water, flavor, stimulant, and tannic acid. Chocolate and cocoa, how- 
ever, are rich in fat, and as they are usually made with milk and 
sugar they have the advantage of conveying food to the system. 
Because of their nature, tea and coffee should never be given to 
children. Cocoa and chocolate provide enough food value to warrant 
their use in the diet of young persons, but they should not be taken 
in too great quantity because of the large amount of fat they contain. 
Any of these beverages used in excessive amounts produces the same 
effect as a mild drug habit. Consequently, when a person feels that 
it is impossible to get along without tea or coffee, it is time to stop 
the use of that beverage. 

COFFEE 



HISTORY AWD PRODUCTION 

17. Coffee is the seed of the coffee tree, which in its wild state 
grows to a height of 20 feet, but in cultivation is kept down to about 
10 or 12 feet for convenience in gathering the fruit. Coffee origi- 
nated in Abyssinia, where it has been used as a beverage from time 
immemorial. At the beginning of the 15th century, it found its way 
into Arabia, where it was used by the religious leaders for prevent- 
ing drowsiness, so that they could perform religious ceremonies at 
night. About 100 years later it came into favor in Turkey, but it 
was not until the middle of the 17th century that it was introduced 
into England. Its use gradually increased among common people 
after much controversy as to whether it was right to drink it or not. 
It is now extensively grown in India, Ceylon, Java, the West Indies, 
Central America, Mexico, and Brazil. The last-named country, 
Brazil, furnishes about 75 per cent, of the coffee used in the United 
States and about 60 per cent, of the world's supply. 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 9 

18. Coffee is a universal drink, but it finds more favor in some 
countries than others. The hospitality of a Turkish home is never 
thought to be complete without the serving of coffee to its guests; 
however, the coffee made by the Turks is not pleasant except to those 
who are accustomed to drinking it. As prepared in Turkey and 
the East, a small amount of boiling water is poured over the 
coffee, which is powdered and mixed with sugar, and the resulting 
beverage, which is very thick, is served in a small cup without cream. 
The French make a concoction known as cafe au lait, which, as 
explained in Essentials of Cookery, Part 2, is a combination of coffee 
and milk. These two ingredients are heated separately in equal pro- 
portions and then mixed before serving. This is a very satisfactory 
way in which to serve coffee if cream cannot be obtained. 

19. Obtaining' tlie Coffee Seeds. — The seeds of the coffee 
tree are enclosed in pairs, with their flat surfaces toward each other, 
in dark, cherry-like berries. The pulp of the berry is softened by 
fermentation and then removed, leaving the seeds enclosed in a husk. 
They are then separated from the husks by being either sun-dried 
and rolled or reduced to a soft mass in water with the aid of a pulp- 
ing machine. With the husks removed, the seeds are packed into 
coarse cloth bags and distributed. 

20. Roasting tlie Coffee Beans. — The next step in the prep- 
aration of coffee for use is the roasting of the coffee beans. After 
being separated from the husks, the beans have a greenish-yellow 
color, but during the roasting process, when they are subjected to 
high temperature and must be turned constantly to prevent uneven 
roasting, they turn to a dark brown. As the roasting also develops 
the flavor, it must be done carefully. Some persons prefer to buy 
unroasted coffee and roast it at home in an oven, but it is more 
economical to purchase coffee already roasted. In addition, the 
improved methods of roasting produce coffee of a better flavor, for 
they accomplish this by machinery especially devised for the purpose. 

21. Grinding tlie Coffee Beans. — During the roasting proc- 
ess there is developed an aromatic volatile oil, called caffeol, to 
which the flavor of the coffee is due. This oil is very strong, but 
upon being exposed to the air it passes off and thus causes a loss of 
flavor in the coffee. For this reason, roasted coffee should be kept 

jn air-tight cans, boxes, or jars. Before it is used, however, it must 

W I-C 5-16 



10 



BEVERAGES 



§25 



be ground. The grinding of the coflFee beans exposes more surface 
and hence the flavor is more quickly lost from ground than unground 
coffee. Because of this fact and because ground coffee can be adul- 
terated very easily, it is not wise to buy coffee already ground. If 
only a small quantity is bought at a time and it can be used up at 
once, the grinding may be done by the grocer, but even in such a 
case the better plan is to grind it immediately before using it. 

22. The method by which the coffee is to be prepared for drink- 
ing will determine to a large extent the way in which the coffee beans 
must be ground. When coffee is to be made by a method in which 
the grounds are not left in the water for any length of time, the 
beans must be ground very fine, in fact, pulverized, for the flavor 
must be extracted quickly. For other purposes, such as when it is 
to be made in a percolator, the beans need not be ground quite so • 

fine, and when it is to be 
made in an ordinary coffee 
pot they may be ground 
very coarse. 

23. For use in the 

home, simple coffee mills 
that will grind coffee as 
coarse or as fine as may 
be desired are to be had. 
Fig. 1 shows two of the 
common types of home 
coffee mills. 

The one shown in (a) 
is fastened to a board so 
that it can be attached to the wall. The coffee to be ground is put in 
the chamber a, from which it is fed to the grinding rolls, and the 
ground coffee drops into the chamber b. The grinding rolls are 
adjusted to the desired fineness by the notched arrangement on the 
end of the shaft. 

The coffee mill shown in (6) may be placed on a table top or some 
other flat surface, but it operates on the same principle as the other. 
The coffee beans are placed in the chamber at the top, and the ground 
coffee drops into the drawer a at the bottom. The adjustment of the 
grinding rolls is regulated by the notched head at the end of the 
vertical shaft. 




Fig. 1 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 11 

24. Adulteration of Coffee. — As in the case of numerous 
other foods, attempts are often made to adulterate coffee. Since -the 
Pure Food Laws have been enforced, there is not so much danger of 
adulteration in a product of this kind ; still, every housewife should 
be familiar with the ways in which this beverage may be reduced 
in strength or quality, so that she may be able to tell whether she is 
getting a good or an inferior product for her money. 

Coffee may be adulterated in a number of ways. Ground coffee 
is especially easy to adulterate with bread crumbs, bran, and similar 
materials that have been thoroughly browned. Many of the cheaper 
coffees are adulterated with chicory, a root that has a flavor similar 
to that of coffee and gives the beverages with which it is used a 
reddish-brown color. Chicory is not harmful; in fact, its flavor is 
sought by some people, particularly the French. The objection to it, 
as well as to other adulterants, is that it is much cheaper than coffee 
and the use of it therefore increases the profits of the dealer. The 
presence of chicory in coffee can be detected by putting a small 
amount of the ground coffee in a glass of water. If chicory is 
present, the water will become tinged with red and the chicory will 
settle to the bottom more quickly than the coffee. 



PREPARATION OF COFFEE 



25. Selection of Coffee. — Many varieties of coffee are to be 
had, but Mocha, Java, and Rio are the ones most used. A single 
variety, however, is seldom sold alone, because a much better flavor 
can be obtained from blend coffee, by which is meant two or more 
kinds of coffee mixed together. 

It is usually advisable to buy as good a quality of coffee as can 
be afforded. The more expensive coffees have better flavor and 
greater strength than the cheaper grades and consequently need not 
be used in such great quantity. It is far better to serve this beverage 
seldom and to have what is served the very best than to serve it so 
often that a cheap grade must be purchased. For instance, some 
persons think that they must have coffee for at least two out of three 
daily meals, but it is usually sufficient if coffee is served once a day, 
and then for the morning or midday meal rather than for the evening 
meal. 

After deciding on the variety of coffee that is desired, it is well to 
buy unground beans that are packed in air-tight packages. Upon 



12 



BEVERAGES 



§25 



receiving the coffee in the home, it should be poured into a jar or a 
can and kept tightly covered. 

26. Necessary Utensils. — Very few utensils are required for 
coffee making, but they should be of the best material that can be 
afforded in order that good results may be 
had. A coffee pot, a coffee percolator, and 
a drip pot, or coffee biggin, are the utensils 
most frequently used for the preparation of 
this beverage. 




27. If a coffee pot is preferred, it 
should be one made of material that will 
withstand the heat of a direct flame. The 
cheapest coffee pots are made of tin, but 
they are the least desirable and should be 
avoided, for the tin, upon coming in contact 
with the tannic acid contained in coffee, sometimes changes the 
Coffee pots made of enamelware are the next highest in 



Fig. 2 



flavor. 




Fig. 3 



price. Then come nickel-plated ones, and, finally, the highest-priced 
ones, which are made of aluminum. The usual form of plain coffee 
pot is shown in Fig. 2. 



BEVERAGES 



13 



28. Percolators are very desirable for the making of coffee, 
for they produce excellent results and at the same time make the 
preparation of coffee easy. Those having an electric attachment are 
especially convenient. One form of percolator is shown in Fig. 3. 
In this percolator, the ground coffee is put in the filter cup a and the 
water in the lower part of the pot b. The water immediately passes 
into the chamber c, as shown by the arrows. In this chamber, which 
is small, it heats rapidly and then rises through the vertical tube d. 
At the top e, it comes out in the form of a spray, strikes the glass 
top, and falls back on a perforated metal plate /, called the spreader. 
It then passes through this plate 
into the filter cup containing the 
grounds, through which it perco- 
lates and drops into the main 
chamber. The circulation of the 
waler continues as long as suffi- 
cient heat is applied, and the rate 
of circulation depends on the de- 
gree of heat. 

29. The drip pot, or coffee 
biggin, as it is sometimes called, 
one type of which is shown in 
Fig. 4, is sometimes preferred for 
the making of coffee. This utensil 
is made of metal or earthenware 
and operates on the same principle 
as a percolator. The ground coffee is suspended above the liquid 
in a cloth bag or a perforated receptacle and the water percolates 
through it. 

30. In case a more complicated utensil than any of those men- 
tioned is used for the making of coffee, the directions that accompany 
it will have to be followed. But no matter what kind of utensil is 
selected for the preparation of coffee, it should be thoroughly cleaned 
each time it is used. To clean it, first empty any coffee it con- 
tains and then wash every part carefully and scald and dry it. If 
the utensil is not clean, the flavor of the coffee made in it will be 
spoiled. 

31. Methods of Making Coffee. — Several methods are 
followed in the making of coffee, the one to select depending on the 




Fig. 4 



14 BEVERAGES § 25 

result desired and the kind of utensil to be used. The most common 
of these methods are : boiling, which produces a decoction ; infusion, 
or filtration, which consists in pouring boiling water over very finely 
ground coffee in order to extract its properties ; and percolating, in 
which boiling water percolates, or passes through, finely ground 
coffee and extracts its flavor. For any of these methods, soft water 
is better than water that contains a great deal of lime. Many times 
persons cannot understand why coffee that is excellent in one locality 
is poor in another. In the majority of cases, this variation is due to 
the difference in the water and not to the coffee. From 1 to 2 table- 
spoonfuls of coffee to 1 cupful of water is the usual proportion 
followed in making coffee. 

32. Boiled Coffee. — Without doubt, coffee is more often boiled 
in its preparation than treated in any other way. Usually, an ordi- 
nary coffee pot is all that is required in this method of preparation. 
The amount of ground coffee used may be varied to obtain the 
desired strength. 

Boiled Coffee 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. cold water 3 c. boiling water 

^ c. ground coffee 

After scalding the coffee pot, put J cupful of the cold water and 
the ground coffee into it. Stir well and then add the boiling water. 
Allow it to come to the boiling point and boil for 3 minutes. Pour a 
little of the coffee into a cup to clear the spout of grounds, add the 
remaining J cupful of cold water, and put back on the stove to 
reheat, but not to boil. When hot, serve at once. Never allow the 
liquid to stand on the grounds for any length of time, for the longer 
it stands the more tannic acid will be drawn out. 

33. As coffee made by boiling is usually somewhat cloudy, it 
may be cleared in one way or another. The last cold water is added 
for this purpose, for as it is heavier than the warm liquid it sinks 
to the bottom and carries the grounds with it. Coffee may also be 
cleared by stirring a small quantity of beaten raw egg, either the 
white or the yolk, or both, into the grounds before the cold water 
is added to them. One egg will clear two or three potfuls of coffee 
if care is exercised in its use. What remains of the egg after the 
first potful has been cleared should be placed in a small dish and set 
away for future use. A little cold water poured over it will assist 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 15 

in preserving it. If the egg shells are washed before the egg is 
broken, they may be crushed and added to the grounds also, for they 
will help to clear the coffee. The explanation of the use of egg for 
this purpose is that it coagulates as the coffee heats and carries the 
particles of coffee down with it as it sinks. 

34. Another very satisfactory way in which to make boiled 
coffee is to tie the ground coffee loosely into a piece of cheesecloth, 
pour the boiling water over it, and then let it boil for a few minutes 
longer than in the method just given. Coffee prepared in this manner 
will be found to be clear and therefore need not be treated in any of 
the ways mentioned. 

35. Filtered Cof f ee^ — When it is desired to make coffee by the 
filtering process, the coffee must be ground into powder. Then it 
should be made in a drip, or French, coffee pot. If one of these is 
not available, cheesecloth of several thicknesses may be substituted. 
The advantage of making coffee by this method is that the coffee 
grounds may sometimes be used a second time. 

Filtered Coffee 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

i c. powdered coffee 1 qt. boiling water 

Place the coffee in the top of the drip pot, pour the boiling water 
over it, and allow the water to drip through into the vessel below. 
When all has run through, remove the water and pour it over the 
coffee a second time. If cheesecloth is to be used, put the coffee 
in it, suspend it over the coffee pot or other convenient utensil, and 
proceed as with the drip pot. 

36. Percolated Coffee. — The coffee used for percolated coffee 
should be ground finer than for boiled coffee, but not so fine 
as for filtered coffee. This is perhaps the easiest way in which to 
prepare coffee and at the same time the surest method of securing 
good coffee. 

Percolated Coffee 

(SuiBcient to Serve Six) 

i c. finely ground coffee 1 qt. cold water 

Place the coffee in the perforated compartment in the top of the 
percolator and pour the cold water in the lower chamber. As the 
water heats, it is forced up through the vertical tube against the top. 
It then falls over the coffee and percolates through into the water 
below. This process begins before the water boils, but the hotter 



16 BEVERAGES § 25 

the water becomes the more rapidly does it percolate through the 
cofifee. The process continues as long as the heat is applied, and 
the liquid becomes stronger in flavor as it repeatedly passes through 
the coffee. When the coffee has obtained the desired strength, serve 
at once. 

37. After-Dinner Coffee. — After a rather elaborate meal, a 
small cup of very strong, black coffee is often served. To prepare 
after-dinner coffee, as this kind is called, follow any of the methods 
already explained, but make it twice as strong as coffee that is to 
accompany the usual meal. Sugar and cream may be added to after- 
dinner coffee, but usually this coffee is drunk black and unsweetened. 

38. Vienna Coffee. — An especially nice way in which to serve 
coffee is to combine it with boiled milk and whipped cream. It is 
then known as Vienna coffee. The accompanying directions are for 
just 1 cup, as this is prepared a cupful at a time. 

Vienna Coffee 

(SuflBcient to Serve One) 

■J c. boiled milk -J c. hot filtered coffee, or coffee 

3 Tb. whipped cream prepared by any method 

Place the boiled milk in a cup, add the whipped cream, and fill the 
cup with the hot coffee. 

39. Iced Coffee. — Persons fond of coffee find iced coffee a 
most delicious hot-weather drink. Iced coffee is usually served in a 
glass, as shown in Fig. 5, rather than in a cup, and when whipped 
cream is added an attractive beverage results. 

To prepare iced coffee, make coffee by any desired method, but if 
the boiling method is followed be careful to strain the liquid so that it 
is entirely free from grounds. Cool the liquid and then pour into 
glasses containing cracked ice. Serve with plain cream and sugar 
or with a tablespoonful or two of whipped cream. If desired, how- 
ever, the cream may be omitted and the coffee served with an equal 
amount of milk, when it is known as iced cafe an lait. 

40. Left-Over Coffee. — The aim of the person who prepares 
coffee should be to make the exact quantity needed, no more nor no 
less, and this can usually be done if directions are carefully followed. 
However, if any coffee remains after all are served, it should 
not be thrown away, as it can be utilized in several ways. Drain the 
liquid from the grounds as soon as possible so that the flavor will 
not be impaired. 



§25 



BEVERAGES 



17 



If desired, left-over coffee may be added to fresh coffee when it is 
prepared for the next meal or, in hot weather, it may be used for 
iced coffee. It may also be used to flavor gelatine, which, when 
sweetened and served with whipped cream, makes an excellent 
dessert. Again, left-over coffee is very satisfactory as a flavoring 




Fig. 5 

for cake icing, for custards, or for whipped cream that is to be served 
with desserts. When coffee is desired for flavoring, it should be 
boiled in order to evaporate some of the water. Very good cake is 
made by using left-over coffee for the liquid and spices for the 
flavoring. 

SERVING COFFEE 

41. The serving of coffee may be done in several ways, but, 
with the exception of iced coffee, this beverage should always be 
served as hot as possible. As can well be imagined, nothing is more 
insipid than lukewarm coffee. Therefore, coffee is preferably made 
immediately before it is to be served. Sugar and cream usually 
accompany coffee, but they may be omitted if they are not desired. 

Coffee may be served with the dinner course, with the dessert, or 
after the dessert. When it is served with the dinner course or the 
dessert, a coffee cup or a tea cup of ordinary size is used ; but when 
it is served after the dessert, a demi-tasse, or small cup that holds 
less than half the amount of the other size, is preferable. Usually, 



18 BEVERAGES § 26 

after-dinner coffee, or cafe noir, as such black coffee is called, rather 
than coffee with cream and sugar, is served after the dessert course 
of a heavy dinner because it is supposed to be stimulating to the 
digestion. 

The pouring of coffee may be done at the table or in the kitchen. 
If it is done at the table, the person serving should ask those to be 
served whether or not they desire cream and sugar, and then serve 
accordingly. If it is done before the coffee is brought to the table, 
the cream and sugar should be passed, so that those served may help 
themselves to the desired amount. Care should always be taken in 
the serving of coffee not to fill the cup so full that it will run over or 
that it will be too full to handle easily when the cream and sugar 
are added. 



TEA 



HISTORY AND PRODUCTION 

42. Tea consists of the prepared leaves or leaf buds of a plant 
known as the tea plant and is used as one of the three stimulating 
beverages. This plant is grown in China, Japan, India, Ceylon, and 
the East Indies, and to a small extent in South Carolina. There are 
two distinct varieties of tea, and each one may be used for the 
preparation of either green or black tea. The leaves of the tea plant, 
which are what is used for making the beverage, are gathered four 
times a year from the time the plants are 4 years old until they are 
10 or 12 years old. Then the plants are pulled up and new ones 
planted. Upon being gathered, the leaves are put through a series 
of processes before they are ready for use. During this treatment, 
various modifications of flavor are developed and the leaves are 
changed in color to black or green, depending on the process used. 

43. It is surprising to most persons to learn that tea was known 
in China for many years before people began to make a beverage of 
it. The first record of its use as a beverage was probably in the 
6th century, when an infusion of tea leaves was given to a ruler of 
the Chinese Empire to cure a headache. A century later, tea had 
come into common use as a beverage in that country. As civilization 
advanced and new countries were formed, tea was introduced as a 
beverage, and today there is scarcely a locality in which it is not 
commonly used. 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 19 

44. Classification of Tea as to Quality. — The position of 
the leaf on the tea plant determines the quality of the tea. The 
farther from the top, the coarser are the leaves and the poorer is the 
quality. On the other hand, the smaller the leaves and the nearer 
the top, the better is the quality. In the very best qualities of tea, 
the buds of the plant are included with the tiny top leaves. 

45. Tea that is raised in China is graded in a particular way, 
and it will be well to understand this grading. The top buds are 
used entirely for a variety known as flowery pekoe j but this is seldom 
found in our markets. The youngest leaves next to the buds are 
made into a tea called orange pekoe; the next older leaves are used 
for pekoe ; the third, for souchong first; the fourth, for souchong 
second; the fifth, for congou; and if there is another leaf, it is made 
into a tea known as bohea. Sometimes the first three leaves are 
mixed, and when this is done the tea is called pekoe. If they are 
mixed with the next two, the tea is called souchong pekoe. The laws 
controlling the importation of tea require that each shipment be 
tested before it passes the custom house, to determine whether or not 
it contains what the label claims for it. 

46. "Varieties of Tea. — The teas that are put on the market 
are of two general varieties, black tea and green tea. Any quality of 
tea or tea raised in any country may be made into these two kinds, 
for, as has been mentioned, it is the method of preparation that is 
accountable for the difference. A number of the common brands 
of tea are. blends or mixtures of green and black tea. These, which 
are often called mixed teas, are preferred by many persons to the 
pure tea of either kind. 

47. Blade tea is made by fermenting the tea leaves before they 
are dried. This fermentation turns them black and produces a 
marked change in their flavor. The process of preparation also 
renders some of the tannin insoluble ; that is, not so much of it can 
be dissolved when the beverage is made. Some well-known brands 
of black tea are China congou, or English breakfast, Formosa, 
oolong, and the various pekoes. The English are especially fond of 
black tea, and the people of the United States have followed their 
custom to the extent that it has become a favorite in this country. 

48. Green tea is made by steaming the leaves and then drying 
them, a process that retains the green color. With tea of this kind. 



20 BEVERAGES § 25 

all fermentation of the .leaves is carefully avoided. Some familiar 
kinds of green tea are hyson, Japan, and gunpowder. The best of 
these are the ones that come from Japan. 



PREPARATION OP TEA 

49. Selection of Tea. — In the course of its preparation, tea is 
rolled either into long, slender pieces or into little balls. Knowing 
this, the housewife should be able to detect readily the stems and 
other foreign material sometimes found in teas, especially the cheaper 
varieties. Such teas should be avoided, for they are lacking not 
only in flavor but also in strength. If economy must be practiced, 
the moderately expensive grades will prove to be the best ones to buy. 

50. Methods of Making Tea. — Upon steeping tea in hot 
water, a very pleasant beverage results. If this is properly made, a 
gentle stimulant that can be indulged in occasionally by normal adults 
without harmful results can be expected. However, the value of 
tea as a beverage has at all times been much overestimated. When 
it is served as afternoon tea, as is frequently done, its chief value 
lies in the pleasant hospitality that is afforded by pouring it. Espe- 
cially is this the case in England, where the inhabitants have adopted 
the pretty custom of serving afternoon tea and feel that guests have 
not received the hospitality of the home until tea has been served. 
Through their continued use of this beverage, the English have 
become expert in tea making. 

51. The Russians are also adepts so far as the making of tea is 
concerned. They use a very good kind of tea, called caravan tea, 
which is packed in lead-covered packages and brought to them by 
caravans. This method of packing and delivery is supposed to have 
a ripening eflfect on the leaves and to give them an unusually good 
flavor. For making tea, the Russians use an equipment called a 
samovar. This is an urn that is constantly kept filled with boiling 
water, so that tea can be served to all visitors or callers that come, 
no matter what time of day they arrive. 

52. Most persons, however, make tea into a beverage by steeping 
it in boiling water or by placing it in a tea ball or some similar 
utensil and then allowing it to stand in boiling water for a short time. 
Whichever method of preparation is followed, the water must be at 
the boiling point and it must be freshly boiled. Water that has been 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 21 

boiled for any length of time becomes very insipid and flat to the 
taste and affects the flavor of the tea. Tea leaves that have been used 
once should never be resteeped, for more tannin is extracted than 
is desirable and the good tea flavor is lost, producing a very unwhole- 
some beverage. As a rule, 1 to li teaspoonfuls of tea to 1 cupful of 
water is the proportion followed in tea making. 

53. Steeped Tea. — When tea is to be steeped, a. teapot is used. 
That .the best results may be secured, the teapot should always be 
freshly scalded and the water freshly boiled. 

Steeped Tea 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 Tb. tea 1 qt. boiling water 

Scald the teapot. Put the tea into the teapot and pour the boiling 
water over it. Let stand on the back of the stove for 3 minutes, 
when a beverage of sufficient strength will be formed. Strain the 
beverage from the tea leaves and serve at once. 

54. Afternoon Tea. — When tea is desired for afternoon serv- 
ing or when it is to be prepared at the table, a tea ball is the most 
satisfactory utensil to use. This is a 
perforated silver or aluminum ball, such 
as shown in Fig. 6, which opens by 
nieans of a hinge and into which the tea 
is placed. For convenience in use, a 
chain is attached to the ball and ends 
in a ring that is large enough to slip ^'"-^ 

over the finger. Some teapots contain a ball attached to the inside 
of the lid and suspended inside the pot. Utensils of this kind are 
very convenient, for when the tea made in them becomes strong 
enough, the leaves may be removed without pouring off the tea. 

To prepare afternoon tea with a tea ball, put 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls 
of tea in the ball, fasten it securely, and place it in a cup. Then pour 
enough freshly boiled water over the ball to fill the cup to the desired 
height. Allow the .ball to remain in the water until the desired 
strength is attained and then remove it. If more than 2 or 3 persons 
are to be served, it will be necessary to refill the ball. 

55. Iced. Tea. — Perhaps one of the most refreshing drinks for 
warm weather is iced tea. A tea that is especially blended for this 
purpose and that is cheaper in price than other tea may be purchased. 




22 



BEVERAGES 



§25 



Slices of lemon or crushed mint leaves add much to the flavor of the 
tea and are often served with it. 

Prepare tea by steeping it, but make it double strength. Strain it 
from the leaves and allow it to become cool. Then pour it into 
glasses containing cracked ice. Serve with sugar and slices of lemon 
or mint leaves. 

56. Left-Over Tea. — Tea that remains -after all persons are 
served need not be wasted if it is poured off the leaves at once. Such 
tea is satisfactory for iced tea, or it may be combined with certain 
fruit juices in the preparation of various cold beverages. However, 
there are not many satisfactory uses for left-over tea; so it is best 
to take pains not to make more than will be required for one time. 



SERVIJfG TEA 

57. Tea may be served as an accompaniment to meals or with 
small sandwiches, dainty cakes, or macaroons as an afternoon cere- 
mony. If it is served with meals and is poured at the table, the 
hostess or the one pouring asks those to be served whether they 
desire sugar and cream and then uses these accompaniments accord- 
ingly. In the event that it is brought to the table poured, the sugar 




Fig. 7 

and cream are passed and those served may help themselves to what 
they desire. Lemon adds much to the flavor of tea and is liked by 
most persons. A dish of sliced lemon may be passed with the cream 
and sugar or placed where the hostess may add it to the tea. The 
Russians, who are inveterate tea drinkers, prepare this beverage by 
putting a slice of lemon in the cup and then pouring the hot tea over 
it. If this custom is followed, the lemons should be washed and 



25 



BEVERAGES 



23 



sliced very thin and the seeds should be removed from the slices. 
The flavor may also be improved by sticking a few cloves in each 
slice of lemon ; or, if the clove flavor .is desired, several cloves may 
be put in the teapot when the tea is made. Fig. 7 shows slices of 
lemons ready to be served with tea. Some of them, as will be 
observed, have cloves stuck in them. 

Lemon is almost always served with iced tea, for it adds a delight- 
ful flavor. If it is not squeezed into the glass, it should be cut into 
quarters or eighths length- 
wise and then cut across so 
that small triangular pieces 
are formed. These are much 
easier to handle than whole 
slices. 

58. In the serving of 
afternoon tea, the pouring of 
the tea is the main thing, and 
the remainder of the service 
simply complements this 
pleasant ceremony. Tiny 
sandwiches, small cakes, or 
macaroons usually accom- 
pany the tea, while such con- 
fections as candied orange 
peel, stuffed dates, or salted 
nuts are often served also. 
When sandwiches are used, 
they may be merely bread- 
and-butter sandwiches or 
they may contain marmalade 
or any desired filling. The 
principal requirement is that 
they be made as small and 
thin as possible, so that they will be extremely dainty in .appearance. 

59. A tea cosy is a convenient device to use when tea is served 
from the pot. It consists of a padded cap, or cover, that may be 
slipped over the teapot to prevent the heat from escaping after the 
tea is infused. It is made of several thicknesses of material in a 
shape and size that will slip over the teapot easily and can then be 






Fig. 8 



24 BEVERAGES § 25 

removed when the tea is to be poured. This can be made very attrac- 
tive by means of a nicely embroidered cover. 

60. Fig. 8 shows an attractive table that may be used for serving 
tea. The top folds over vertically, so that when the table is not in 
use it may be disposed of by placing it against the wall of a room. 
This table holds nothing except the pot containing the tea, which 
must be made in the kitchen and placed in the pot before it is brought 




Fig. 9 

to the table, the sugar and cream, the teacups, and the lemon. Sand- 
wiches, wafers, or cakes that are to be served with the tea should 
be passed to the guests. 

61. Fig. 9 shows a tea wagon and the equipment for making tea, 
with the sandwiches and cakes to be served arranged on a muffin 
stand, or Lazy Susan. When tea is to be made with an equipment 
of .this kind, the water is heated in the little kettle by means of the 
alcohol burner. The can with the long spout contains an extra 
supply of alcohol with which to keep the burner filled. The tea 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 25 

ball, which is in the little glass, is filled with tea and the boiling water 
is poured over it into each cup. The ball is allowed to remain until 
the tea is of the desired strength, when it is removed and used for 
another cup, provided sufficient strength remains in the tea leaves. 

The silver tea caddy at the back of the wagon contains the tea, and 
lemon with a fork for serving it is on a small plate near the front of 
the wagon. Napkins and plates for the cakes and sandwiches are on 
the lower part of the wagon. The napkins and plates are first passed ; 
then the tea is served with the sandwiches, after which cakes are 
served. 



COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 



NATURE AND SBIiBCTION 

62. Cocoa and chocolate' are made from the fruit of the cacao, 
or chocolate, tree. This tree is native to Mexico, where cocoa was 
first used as a beverage, but it is also grown in South America and 
the West Indies. The fruit of this tree was named cocoa Theo- 
broma, which means "food for the gods," because of its excellent 




Fig. 10 

flavor. The original natives of Mexico and Peru used cocoa in place 
of money. When the Spanish invaded' these countries, they learned 
its use and took it back to Spain, where it is still a popular beverage. 
In many localities in Spain it became a fashionable morning drink, 
but it was also served at other times. 

63. Production of Cocoa and Chocolate. — The fruit of the 
cacao tree is in the form of pods from 6 to 10 inches in length and 
3 to 4 inches in diameter. These pods are filled with a white, pulpy 
mass in which are embedded from twenty to forty seeds about twice 
the size and very much the shape of kidney beans. Fig. 10 shows the 

w I— c s-i? 



26 BEVERAGES § 25 

three stages of the treatment through which the seeds are put before 
they can be used for a beverage. After they are removed from the 
pod, they are fermented and then dried, when they appear as at a. 
In this form they are packed in bags and distributed. The beans are 
then roasted to develop their flavor and are crushed into small pieces 
called cocoa nibs, as shown at b. The cocoa nibs are then ground 
fine, when they become almost a liquid mass because of the very 
large amount of fat contained in cocoa. To make the ordinary bitter 
chocolate used so extensively for cooking purposes, this mass is run 
into shallow pans, where it hardens as it cools. It is often flavored 
and sweetened and then forms the confection known as sweet choco- 
late. The application of pressure to bitter chocolate extracts con- 
siderable fat, which is known as cocoa butter and is used largely in 
creams and toilet preparations. The remaining material is ground 
into a powder, as shown at c, and becomes the commercial cocoa. 

To prevent the formation of a large amount of sediment in the 
bottom of the cup, cocoa is treated with various kinds of alkali. 
Some of these remain in the cocoa and are supposed to be harmful 
if it is taken in any quantity. The cocoas that are treated with alkali 
are darker in color than the others. The Dutch cocoas are considered 
to be the most soluble and also contain the most alkali. 

64. Selection of Cocoa and Chocolate. — Chocolate is 
usually pure in the form in which it is sold, because it does not offer 
much chance for adulteration. However, the volume of cocoa can 
be easily increased by cheaper materials, such as starch, ground 
cocoa shells, etc. Cocoa so adulterated should be avoided if possible. 
Generally the best brands, although higher in price than others, are 
free from adulteration, and from these a selection should be made. 
The particular brand of chocolate or cocoa to buy must be governed 
by the taste of those to whom it is to be served. 



PRB3PAIIATION OP COCOA AND CHOCOIiATE 

65. As a beverage, cocoa probably has greater use than choco- 
late ; still there are some who prefer the flavor of chocolate to that of 
cocoa. Directions for preparing beverages from both of these mate- 
rials are given, with the intention that the housewife may decide for 
herself which one she prefers to use. For either one, any ordinary 
saucepan or kettle may be used, but those made of enamel or alumi- 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 27 

num are best. Of these two materials, aluminum is the better, for 
milk is less liable to scorch in a vessel of this kind than in one of 
any other material. 

66. When chocolate is to be used for a beverage, the amount 
required varies with the strength desired. Recipes for bitter choco- 
late usually give the amount in squares, but no difficulty will be 
experienced in determining the amount, for the cakes of chocolate 
are marked in squares of 1 ounce each. If sweet chocolate is used, 
less sugar should, of course, be added to the beverage. 

67. In all but the first of the recipes that follow, it will be 
observed that milk is used for a part of the liquid. The quantity 
given makes an excellent beverage, but more or less may be used if 
desired. However, if the quantity of milk is changed, the quantity 
of water should be changed accordingly. Condensed or evaporated 
milk may be utilized very nicely in the making of these two bever- 
ages. Milk of this kind should, of course, be diluted, a half-pint 
can requiring 2 to 3 cupfuls of water. If condensed milk is used, 
less sugar than the recipe calls for may be employed. A few drops 
of vanilla added just before serving always improves the flavor of 
cocoa or chocolate. 

68. Plain Cocoa. — The quickest and cheapest method of mak- 
ing cocoa is explained in the recipe that follows. It may be prepared 
in a saucepan and poured into the cups or it may be made in the cups 
themselves. To improve the flavor of cocoa made in this way, as 
well as add to its food value, cream should be served with it. Salt 
also is used to improve the flavor of all cocoa and chocolate 
beverages. 

Plain Cocoa 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

24 Tb. cocoa Few grains of salt 

24 Tb. sugar 4 c. boiling water 

Mix the cocoa, sugar, and salt, form into a paste by stirring in a 
little of the water, and then add the remainder of the water. Serve 
with cream. 

69. Breakfast Cocoa. — Delicious cocoa can be made by fol- 
lowing the directions given in the accompanying recipe. Here milk 
and water are used in equal amounts. When milk is used in the 
preparation of this beverage, a scum of albumin is likely to form on 
the top of the cups unless care is taken. To prevent this, the cocoa, 



28 BEVERAGES § 25 

as soon as it is prepared, should be beaten with a rotary egg beater 
until a fine froth forms on top. This process is known as milling, 
and should always be applied whenever milk is used in the prepara- 
tion of these beverages. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

2 c. milk Few grains of salt 

2 Tb. cocoa 2 c. boiling water 

2 Tb. sugar 

Scald the milk. Mix the cocoa, sugar, and salt, form into a paste 
by stirring in a little of the boiling water, and then add the scalded 
milk and the remainder of the water. Beat with an egg beater until 
a froth is formed and serve at once. 

70. Rich. Cocoa. — There are times when it is desired to serve 
rich cocoa, as, for instance, with a lunch that is not high in food 
value or with wafers at afternoon social affairs. The accompanying 
recipe explains how to make cocoa that will be suitable for such 
occasions. 

Rich Cocoa 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 c. milk Few grains of salt 

3 Tb. cocoa i c. boiling water 
i c. sugar 

Scald the milk; Stir the cocoa, sugar, and salt into a smooth paste 
with the boiling water and boil for 2 or 3 minutes. Add the scalded 
milk, mill, and serve. 

71. Creamy Cocoa. — When there is not very much milk on 
hand and still a rich, creamy cocoa is desired, the accompanying 
recipe should be tried. As will be noted, flour is used in addition 
to the usual ingredients. While this is accountable for the creamy 
consistency of the cocoa, it should be remembered that the cocoa 
must be cooked long enough to remove the raw, starchy flavor of 
the flour. 

Creamy Cocoa 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

4 Tb. cocoa Few grains of salt 
1 Tb. flour 2 c. boiling water 
4 Tb. sugar 2 c. milk 

Mix the cocoa, flour, sugar, and salt, and stir into a paste with 
some of the water. Add the rest of the water, cook for 5 minutes, 
and then add the milk, which has been scalded. Mill and serve. 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 29 

72. Hot Chocolate. — Very good hot chocolate can be made 
by following the directions here given. As will be noted, this recipe 
is similar to several of those given for cocoa, except that chocolate 
is substituted for the cocoa. It may therefore be used on any occa- 
sion when cocoa would be served. It is especially delicious when' 
served with a tablespoonful or two of whipped cream. 

Hot Chocolate 

2 c. milk Few grains of salt 

1^ sq. unsweetened chocolate 2'c. boiling water 

i c. sugar 
Scald the milk. Melt the chocolate over the fire, add the sugar and 
salt, and gradually stir in the boiling water. Place" over the fire, let 
boil for 2 or 3 minutes, and add the scalded milk. Mill and serve 
plain or with whipped cream. 

73. Iced Cocoa or Chocolate. — An excellent warm-weather 
beverage consists of cold cocoa or cold chocolate served either with 
or without sweetened whipped cream. Prepare the cocoa or choco- 
late according to any of the recipes already given and then allow it 
to cool. Fill glasses with cracked ice, pour the cocoa or chocolate 
over it, and serve either with or without sweetened whipped cream. 

74. Left-Over Cocoa and Chocolate. — ^As the materials used 
in the preparation of cocoa and chocolate are rather expensive, not 
the slightest quantity of these beverages that remains after serving 
should be wasted. However, a small amount of chocolate usually 
has to be added so that it will have a stronger flavor. It may then 
be thickened with corn starch for chocolate blanc mange or with 
gelatine for chocolate jelly. Either of these served with whipped 
cream or a sauce of some kind makes an excellent dessert. Chocolate 
bread pudding may also be flavored with these left-over beverages. 

It is also a good plan to utilize left-over cocoa or chocolate for 
flavoring purposes. However, additional cocoa or chocolate and 
sugar should first be added to it, and the mixture should then be 
boiled to a sirup. When so prepared it may be used whenever a 
chocolate flavoring is desired, such as for flavoring other beverages, 
cake icings, custards, sauces for desserts, and ice creams. 



30 



BEVERAGES 



§25 



SERVING COCOA AND CHOCOI,ATE 

75. When cocoa or chocolate is used to accompany meals, it is 
served in the usual sized teacup. However, when either of these 
beverages is served at receptions or instead of tea in the afternoon, 
regular chocolate cups, which hold only about half as much as tea- 
cups, are used. An attractive chocolate service to use for special 
occasions is shown in Fig. 11. The cocoa or chocolate is prepared 
in the kitchen, but is served to the guests from a chocolate pot, such 




Fig, 11 



as the one shown, in tall cups that match the chocolate pot in design^ 
If such a service is not available, the cocoa or chocolate may be 
poured into the cups in the kitchen and then brought to the guests 
on a tray. 

Besides sugar, which is generally added in the preparation of 
cocoa and chocolate, cream usually accompanies these beverages, espe- 
cially when they are made without milk or with only a little. If the 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 31 

cream is whipped and slightly sweetened, a spoonful or two will be 
sufficient to render the beverage dehghtful. In case no cream is on 
hand, marshmallows make a very good substitute. One of these 
should be placed in the bottom of each cup and the hot beverage 
poured over it. The marshmallow softens and rises to the top. 
When marshmallows are to be added to cocoa, less sugar should b« 
used in its preparation. 

NON-STIMULATING BEVERAGES 



CEREAL BEVERAGES 

76. Non-stimulating beverages are those which contain 
neither stimulant nor alcohol. They are the ones usually depended 
on to carry nutrition into the body and to provide the necessary 
refreshment. In this class of beverages come the various cereal 
beverages, fruit drinks, soft drinks, and milk-and-egg drinks. With 
the exception of the cereal beverages, these drinks are of a very 
refreshing nature, for they are served as cold as possible and they 
contain materials that make them very pleasing to the taste. Most 
of them can be prepared in the home at much less cost than they can 
be purchased commercially prepared or at soda fountains ; so it is 
well for the housewife to be familiar with their nature and their 
preparation. 

77. Cereal beverages, as the name implies, are made from 
cereals. Of these, the cereal coffees are perhaps the most common. 
They contain nothing that is harmful, and are slightly beneficial in 
that they assist in giving the body some of the necessary liquid. 
However, they have absolutely no food value and are therefore of no 
importance in the diet except to take the place of stimulating bever- 
ages that are likely to injure those who drink them. They are made 
of cereals to which sugar or molasses is added, and the whole is 
then baked until the cereals brown and the sugar caramelizes, the 
combination producing a flavor much like that of coffee. Plain 
roasted wheat or bran can be used very well as a substitute in the 
making of these beverages. In the parts of the country where rye 
is extensively grown, it is roasted in the oven until it is an even 
brown in color. It is then used almost exclusively by some persons 
to make rye coffee, a beverage that closely resembles coffee in flavor. 



32 BEVERAGES § 25 

78. The instantaneous cereal beverages are made by drawing all 
the flavor possible out of the material by means of water. The water 
is then evaporated and the hard substance that remains is ground 
until it is almost a powder. When water is added again, this sub- 
stance becomes soluble instantly. Instantaneous coffee is prepared in 
the same way. The way in which to use these beverages depends, of 
course, on the kind selected, but no difficulty will be experienced in 
their preparation, for explicit directions are always found in or on 
all packages containing them. 



FRUIT BEVERAGES 



INGREDIENTS FOR FRUIT BEVERAGES 

79. Fruit beverages are those which contain fruit and fruit 
juices for their foundation. As there are many kinds of fruit that 
can be used for this purpose, almost endless variety can be obtained 
in the making of these beverages. One of the important features is 
that a great deal of nourishment can be incorporated into them by the 
materials used. In addition, the acids of fruits are slightly antiseptic 
and are stimulating to the digestion as well as beneficial to the blood. 

80. Lemon juice, when mixed with other fruit juices, seems to 
intensify the flavor. Because of this fact, practically all the recipes 
for fruit beverages include this juice as one of the ingredients. The 
combination of pineapple and lemon yields a greater quantity of 
flavor for beverages, ices, etc. than any other two fruit flavors. 
Juice may be extracted from all fruits easily. To obtain lemon juice 
for a fruit beverage, first soften the fruit by pressing it between the 
hand and a hard surface, such as a table top, or merely soften it with 
the hands. Then cut it in two, crosswise, and drill the juice out, as 
shown in Fig. 12, by placing each half over a drill made of glass or 
aluminum and turning it around and around until all the juice is 
extracted. To remove the seeds and pulp, strain the juice through a 
wire strainer. The juice from oranges and grapefruit, if they are 
not too large, may be extracted in the same way. 

81. It is not always necessary to extract juices from fresh fruit 
for fruit beverages; in fact, juice from canned fruit or juice espe- 
cially canned for beverage making is the kind most frequently 



25 



BEVERAGES 



33 



employed. For instance, in the canning of fruit there is often a 
large quantity of juice left over that most persons use for jelly. It 
is a good plan to can this juice just as it is and then use it with lemon 
juice or other fruit juices for these beverages. Also, juices that 
remain after all the fruit has been used from a can may be utilized 
in the same way, no matter what the kind or the quantity. In fact, 
unless otherwise stated in the recipes that follow, the fruit juices 
given, with the exception of orange and lemon juice, are those taken 
from canned fruit or juices canned especially for beverage making. 
These juices also lend themselves admirably to various other uses. 




Fig. 12 

for, as has already been learned, they are used in ices, gelatine 
desserts, salad dressing, pudding sauces, etc. Therefore, no fruit 
juice should ever be wasted. 

82. The clear-fruit beverages become more attractive when they 
are garnished in some way. A slice of lemon, orange, or pineapple, 
or a fresh strawberry put into each glass improves the flavor and 
makes the beverage more appetizing. Red, yellow, and green cher- 
ries may be bought in bottles and used for such purposes. As these 
are usually preserved in wine and are artificially colored, many 
persons object to their use. A good substitute for them is candied 
cherries. These can be bought from any confectioner and do very 
well when a red decoration is desired. 



34 BEVERAGES § 25 

PREPARATION OP FRUIT BEVERAGES 

83. Lemonade. — Next to water, no other drink is so refresh- 
ing nor quenches the thirst to so great an extent as lemonade. 
Lemonade is suitable for many occasions, and as lemons can be 
p-urchased at any time of the year it can be made at almost any 
season. The lemon sirup prepared for this beverage may be used 
as desired, for if it is put in a cool place it will keep for a long time. 
The more the sirup is boiled down, the better will it keep. A table- 
spoonful or two of glucose or corn sirup added to such mixtures 
when they are boiled will help to keep them from crystallizing when 
they stand. Lemonade 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. sugar i c. lemon juice 

1 qt. water 
Make a sirup by boiling the sugar and water for a few minutes, 
and set aside to cool. Add the lemon juice and then dilute with ice 
water to suit the taste. Serve. in glasses and garnish each one with 
a slice of lemon or a red cherry. 

84. ' Orangeade. — While not so acid in flavor as lemonade, 
orangeade is also a delightful drink. On warm days, drinks of this 
kind should take the place of the hot ones that are generally used 
during the cold weather. 

Orangeade 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

I c. sugar I c. orange juice 

1 qt. water 3 Tb. lemon juice 

Make a sirup of the sugar and 1 cupful of the water. Allow this to 
become cool and then add the fruit juices and the remaining water. 
Pour into glasses and garnish each glass with a slice of orange, a 
red cherry, or a fresh strawberry. 

85. Grape Lemonade. — An excellent combination in the way 
of a beverage is lemonade and grape juice. Besides adding flavor 
to the lemonade, the grape juice gives it a delightful color. 

Grape Lemonade 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 qt. lemonade 1 c. grape juice 

Prepare the lemonade in the manner explained in Art. 83. Add 
the grape juice to the lemonade and stir well. Serve ice cold in 
glasses. 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 35 

86. Pineapple Lemonade. — Another variation of lemonade 
is produced when pineapple juice is added to it. To garnish this 
beverage, a slice of lemon and a spoonful of grated pineapple are 
generally used. This pineapple beverage is delightful with wafers 
or small cakes as refreshments for informal social affairs during 
hot weather. 

Pineapple Lemonade 

(Sufficient to Serve Six) 

1 c. water 1 c. juice from canned 

f c. sugar pineapple 

3 c. ice water 3 lemons 
Make a sirup of the water and sugar, and set aside to cool. Add 
the ice water, the pineapple juice, and the juice of the lemons. Stir 
well, strain, and serve. Garnish with a slice of lemon and a spoonful 
of grated pineapple added to each glass. 

87. Mint Julep. — Mint drinks are not served so often as some 
of the other fruit beverages, but those with whom they find favor 
will undoubtedly be delighted with mint julep prepared according to 
the following recipe : 

Mint Julep 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

4 sprigs mint J c. pineapple juice 

1 c. sugar i c. orange juice 

1 qt. water i c. lemon juice 

1 c. red cherry juice 
Crush the mint with the sugar, using a potato masher or a large 
spoon. Add the water and fruit juices and strain. Serve over 
crushed ice and garnish the glasses with sprigs of mint. Tall, 
narrow glasses are especially attractive for serving this drink. 

88. Fruit Nectar. — The term nectar was used by the early 
Greeks to mean the drink of the gods. Now it is often applied to an 
especially delightful beverage. Pineapple combined with lemon is 
always good, but when orange juice is also used, an excellent nectar 
is the result. 

Fruit Nectar 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

f c. sugar 1 c. pineapple juice 

2 c. water ^ c. lemon juice 

1^ c. orange juice 
Boil the sugar and water for 2 minutes and then cool. Add the 
fruit juices, strain, and serve over cracked ice. 



36 BEVERAGES § 25 

89. Red- Raspberry Nectar. — A beverage that is pleasing to 
the eye, as well as delightful to the taste, can be made by combining 
red-raspberry juice and lemon juice with the required amount of 
sugar and Water. The juice from canned raspberries may be used 
for this drink. 

Red-Raspberry Nectak 
(SufScient to Serve Six) 

■J c. sugar ^ c. lemon juice 

2 c. water IJc. red raspberry juice 

Boil the sugar and water for 2 minutes and allow the sirup to 

become cool. Then add the fruit juices, strain, and serve over 

cracked ice. 

90. Spice Cup. — Occasionally a spice drink seems to be just 
what is desired. When this is the case, the directions given in the 
accompanying recipe for spice cup should be followed. 

Spice Cup 

(Sufficient to Serve Eight) 

1| c. sugar 3 lemons 

1 J pt. water 4 oranges 

12 cloves 2 drops oil of wintergreen 

2-in. stick cinnamon 
Boil the sugar, water, and spices together for 5 minutes and allow 
the sirup to become cool. Add the juice of the lemons and oranges 
and the wintergreen oil and serve in glasses over cracked ice. Gar- 
nish each glass with slices of orange and lemon or a piece of pre- 
served ginger. 

91. Fruit Punch.. — As fruit beverages are very often served 
at small receptions, club meetings, or parties, a recipe that will 
make a sufficiently large quantity is often desired. The amounts 
mentioned in the following recipe will make enough fruit punch to 
serve thirty to forty persons if punch glasses are used, or sixteen 
to twenty if ordinary drinking glasses are used. 

Fruit Punch 
2^ c. sugar 6 lemons 

1 qt. water 1 pt. can grated pineapple 

2 c. fruit juice (raspberry, 1 c. strong black tea (streiined) 

strawberry, or cherry) 1 qt. carbonated water 

6 oranges 

Boil the sugar and water for 2 minutes and allow the sirup to 
become cool. Then add the fruit juice, the juice of the oranges and 
lemons, the pineapple, and the tea. Just before serving, add the 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 37 

carbonated water, which lends a sparkling appearance and a snappy 
taste to a beverage of this kind. Pour over cracked ice into sherbet 
or punch glasses or into tall narrow ones. 

92. Ginser-Ale Punch. — As most persons like the flavor of 
ginger ale, punch containing ginger ale is always a favorite when a 
large company of persons is to be served. The quantity that the 
accompanying recipe makes will serve twenty to twenty-five persons 
if punch glasses are used, or ten to twelve persons if drinking glasses 
are used. 

Ginger-Ale Punch 
1^0. sugar 1 pt. grape juice 

1 pt. water 4 sprigs fresh mint (crushed) 

2 lemons 1 lemon sliced thin 

3 oranges 1 qt. ginger ale 

Boil the sugar and water for 2 minutes and allow the sirup to 
become cool. Drill the juice from the lemons and oranges and add 
this with the grape juice, crushed mint, and sliced lemon to the sirup. 
Just before using, add the ginger ale and serve over cracked ice. 



SOFT DRINKS 

93. A class of very popular non-stimulating beverages are the 
soft drinks sold at the soda fountains. Many of them can also be 
bought in bottles and so may be purchased and served at home. These 
drinks really consist of carbonated water and a flavoring material 
that is either prepared chemically and colored or made of fruit 
extracts. Sometimes ice cream is added, and the drink is then called 
ice-cream soda. 

94. Soft drinks include phosphates, ginger ale, coca cola, birch 
beer, root beer, and various other drinks called mashes, sours, and 
freezes. While these are pleasing to the taste and have the advan- 
tage of being ready to drink when prepared, it is advisable not to 
indulge in them too frequently, because excessive use of them is 
liable to affect the system. Besides, beverages that are just as satis- 
factory as these so far as flavor is concerned and that are made of 
much better material can be prepared at home at far less cost. With 
these drinks, as with other commercially prepared articles of food, 
the cost of preparation and service in addition to the cost of materials 
must be paid for by the consvuner. 



38 BEVERAGES § 25 



NOURISHING BEVERAGES 

95. Many times it is necessary or desirable to administer food 
in the form of liquid. When this is to be done, as much nourishment 
as possible should generally be incorporated into the beverage. To 
meet such a need, the following recipes are presented. In each case, 
the quantities mentioned make a drink sufficient for only one person, 
so that if more than one are to be served the amounts should be 
multiplied by the number desired. The food materials used in these 
drinks are easily digested, and the beverages are comparatively high 
in food value. 

96. At most soda fountains, these nourishing drinks are offered 
for sale, so that if one does not desire the work of preparation, they 
may be obtained at such places. However, as practically all the 
ingredients are materials used in the home and are therefore nearly 
always on hand in most households, drinks of this kind may be 
prepared at home at much less cost than when purchased already 
made. The main thing, to remember in their preparation is that the 
ingredients should be as cold as possible and that the beverage should 
be cold when served. 

97. The beverages containing eggs may be made in more than 
one way. They may be mixed in a bowl or an enamelware dish with 
a rounded bottom and then beaten with a rotary egg beater, or they 
may be mixed in a metal shaker designed especially for this purpose 
and then shaken thoroughly in that. In drinks of this kind, the point 
to remember is that the eggs should be beaten or shaken until they 
are light and foamy. 

98. Chocolate Sirup. — While chocolate sirup is not a beverage 
in itself, it is used to such an extent in beverages, as well as an 
accompaniment to numerous desserts, that it is well for the house- 
wife to know how to prepare it. It may be kept an indefinite length 
of time if it is put into a glass jar and sealed. Here, as in the prepa- 
ration of other sirups, a tablespoonful or two of corn sirup or glucose 
will help to keep the sirup from crystallizing. 

Chocolate Sirup 
4 sq. chocolate f c. sugar 
1 c. water 
Melt the chocolate in a saucepan, stir in the water, and add the 
sugar. Boil until a thick sirup is formed. 



§ 25 BEVERAGES 39 

99. Plain Milk Shake. — A pleasant variation for milk is the 
plain milk shake here given. Even those who are not fond of milk 
and find it hard to take like it when it is prepared in this way. 

Plain Milk Shake 

1 c. milk Few drops of vanilla 

2 tsp. sugar Dash of nutmeg 

Beat all the ingredients together with an egg beater or shake well 
in a shaker and serve in a glass with cracked ice. 

100. Egg Milk Shake. — The simplest form of egg drink is 
the egg milk shake explained in the accompanying recipe. This is an 
extremely nutritious drink and is often served to invalids and per- 
sons who must have liquid nourishment. 

Egg Milk Shake 

f c. milk Pinch of salt 

1 egg Few drops of vanilla 

1 Tb. sugar 
Mix all the ingredients and beat the mixture with a rotary beater 
or shake it in a shaker. Serve in a glass over cracked ice. 

101. Egg Chocolate. — The addition of chocolate to an egg 
milk shake improves it very much and makes a drink called egg 
chocolate. 

Egg Chocolate 
f c. milk Few drops of vanilla 

1 egg Pinch of salt 

2 Tb. chocolate sirup 

Mix all the materials and beat with an egg beater or shake thor- 
oughly in a shaker. Serve in a glass with cracked ice. 

102. Chocolate Malted Milk. — A preparation that is much 
used in nourishing drinks and that furnishes a great deal of nutri- 
tion is malted milk. This is made from cow's milk and is blended 
by a scientific process with malted grains. It comes in powder form 
and may be purchased in bottles of various sizes. It is well to keep 
a good brand of malted milk on hand, as there are various uses to 
which it can be put. 

Chocolate Malted Milk 
f c. milk 2 Tb. chocolate sirup 

1 egg Few drops of vanilla 

2 Tb. malted milk Pinch of salt 

Mix and shake in a shaker or beat with a rotary egg beater. Serve 
in a glass with cracked ice.. 



40 BEVERAGES § 25 

103. Orange Egg Nog:. — The accompanying recipe for egg 
nog. requires orange for its flavoring, but any fruit juice may be sub- 
stituted for the orange if desired. Pineapple and apricot juices are 
exceptionally good. 

Orange Egg Nog 

i c. cream 1 Tb. sugar 

i c. milk 2 oranges 

legg 
Mix the cream, milk, egg, and sugar, beat well with an egg beater, 
and continue beating while adding the juice of the oranges. Serve in 
a glass over crushed ice. 

104. Foamy Egg Nog. — An egg nog can be made foamy and 
light by separating the eggs and beating the yolks and whites sepa- 
rately. Either cream or milk may be used for this drink, and it may 
be flavored with vanilla or fruit juice, as preferred. A small piece 
of red jelly beaten into the egg white makes this drink very attrac- 
tive; or, jelly may be used as a flavoring and beaten with the 
ingredients. 

Foamy Egg Nog 

2 eggs 2 Tb. fruit juice or 

1 Tb. sugar -J tsp. vanilla 

i c. cream or milk 
Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Mix the yolks with the 
sugar, cream or milk, and the fruit juice or vanilla and beat thor- 
oughly. Beat the whites stiff and fold into the first mixture, retain- 
ing a tablespoonful of the beaten white. Pour into a tall glass, put 
the remaining white on top, and serve. 



BEVERAGES 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) What is a beverage? 

(2) What does boiling do to: (o) hard water? (6) impure water? 

(3) What is the value of beverages in the diet? 

(4) Mention and define the three classes of beverages. 

(5) (o) What are caffeine, theine, and theobromine? (6) Where is each 
found? (c) What effect do they have on the human body? 

(6) (a) Where is tannic acid found? (&) What effect does it have on 
the human body? 

(7) Tell briefly about the preparation of coffee for the market. 

(8) How should coffee be bought? 

(9) What are the general proportions of coffee and liquid used in the 
making of coffee? 

(10) What use can be made of left-over coffee? 

(11) Tell briefly about the preparation of black and green tea for the 
market. 

(12) What points should be observed in the selection of tea? 

(13) What general proportions of tea and water are used for the making, 
of tea? 

(14) Tell briefly about the preparation of cocoa and chocolate for tht. 
market. 

(15) What advantage have cocoa and chocolate over tea and coffee as. 
articles of food? 

(16) What use can be made of left-over cocoa and chocolate? 

(17) (o) How are cereal coffees made? (6) Of what value are they? 

(18) Of what value are fruit beverages? 

(19) What uses can be made of left-over fruit juices? 

(20) What good use can be made of nourishing beverages? 

§25 

W l—C S— 18 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



NECESSITY FOR CAREFUL MEAL PLANNING 

1. As every housewife realizes, the feeding of the members of 
her family places upon her serious and important responsibilities. 
While she deserves and receives credit for their good health, the 
blame for much of their ill health falls upon her, too. The reason 
for this is that illness is due in a greater measure to wrong food than 
to any other single factor ; arid eveii if improper diet is not directly 
responsible for ill health, it certainly lowers the bodily resistance and 
thus makes a person susceptible to disease. 

The health of her family is naturally the housewife's first and 
greatest consideration, and as this depends so much on correct diet, 
it should be the aim of every housewife to plan her meals in the 
careful, intelligent way required to supply her household with the 
food each member needs. 

2. As has already been learned, a knowledge of the selection, 
care, and preparation of food is absolutely necessary in providing 
proper diet. But correct feeding requires more than this. In addi- 
tion, the housewife must have a working knowledge of what foods 
contain and their effect in the body. She must also learn what her 
family needs and then make every effort to supply this need in the 
most economical way. The result will be a sufficient amount of food 
of the right kind at a minimum expenditure of funds. 

She should keep in mind, however, that the cost of diet has no 
direct relation to its food value, but that economy and proper feed- 
ing are closely connected. For instance, an inexpensive diet may be 
just as satisfactory from a food-value standpoint as an expensive 
one. But in order to make the inexpensive one adequate and the 
expensive one balanced, the housewife must apply her knowledge of 
the general composition of food ; that is, she must know whether a 

'copyrighted by international educational publishing company, all rights reserved 

S26 



2 THE PLANNING OF MEALS §26 

food predominates in carbohydrate, fat, or protein, and whether or 
not it furnishes minerals. Equipped with such knowledge, she will 
be able to purchase the largest amount of nutritive material for the 
smallest outlay of money. The cheapest food is not always the one 
that sells for the lowest price per pound, quart, or bushel, but the 
one that furnishes the most nutritive material at the lowest cost; 
also, food that is the wrong kind to serve is not an economical one 
to purchase. 

3. Many housewives regard it as unnecessary to plan before- 
hand and persist in preparing meals without giving any previous 
thought to them. But to begin thinking about an hour before meal 
time what to have for a meal is neither wise nor economical, for then 
it is too late to determine what ought to be served from a diet stand- 
point and there can be prepared only those foods which the time will 
allow. As can well be understood, this is both a disastrous plan for 
correct diet and a very extravagant way in which to feed a family. 
Quickly broiled steaks and chops, commercially canned vegetables 
and fruits, and prepared desserts should be the occasional treat 
rather than the daily food. Instead of using these constantly, time 
should be allowed for the preparation of the less expensive meats 
and vegetables and the home-made desserts. 

To prepare such foods successfully requires that meals should be 
planned at least 24 hours before they are to be served, and in reality 
the main dishes should be decided on 48 hours ahead of time. Then, 
sometime between breakfast and luncheon and before the day's 
marketing is done, detailed plans should be made for luncheon and 
dinner of that day and for breakfast of the next. Nor should the 
left-overs be disregarded if economy would be the watchword in 
the management of the household. Rather, they should be included 
in the plans for each day and used up as fast as possible. 



' 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



PURCHASE OF FOODS 



SUCCESSFUL MARKETING 

4. The truly economical housewife will find it necessary each 
day to determine three things: (1) what is left from yesterday's 
meals and what use can be made of it; (2) what is in supply that 
can be used for that day; and (3) what must be added to these 
things to provide satisfactory meals for the family. Having deter- 
mined these points, she should make a list of the articles that she 
must purchase when she does her marketing. A pad fastened to the 
kitchen wall and a pencil on a string attached to the pad are conve- 
nient for this purpose. At the same time, they serve as a reminder 
that when all of any article, such as coffee, sugar, baking powder, 
etc., has been used, a note should be made of this fact. To her list 
of supplies that have become exhausted since her preceding market- 
ing day should be added the fresh fruits, vegetables, and other 
perishable foods needed for the next day or preferably for the next 
two days if they can be kept. 

5. It is only with proper preparation that the housewife may 
expect her marketing trips to be successful. If she starts to market 
with merely two or three items in mind and then tries to think of 
what she needs as she orders, not only does she waste the grocer's 
time, but her marketing trip will be a failure. After she arrives 
home, she will find that there are other things she should have pur- 
chased, and the grocer will be forced to make an extra delivery to 
bring them to her. This is more than she has a right to expect, for 
the grocer should not be obliged to pay for her lack of planning. 

6. To purchase economically, it is advisable, when possible, to 
buy at a cash grocery and to pay cash for what is bought. When this 
is done, one is not helping to pay the grocer for accounts he is unable 
to collect. It is a fortunate grocer who is able to collect 80 per cent, 
of his bills from his patrons when he conducts his business on the 
credit plan. However, if it is desired to deal with a credit grocer, all 



4 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

bills should be paid at least once a month. No customer has a right 
to expect the grocer to wait longer than 30 days for his money. 

In many of the cities and large towns, some credit grocers have 
adopted what is called the "cash-and-carry plan." All customers, 
whether they buy for cash or on credit, must pay the same price for 
groceries, but those who wish their goods delivered must pay addi- 
tional for delivery and those who buy on credit must pay a certain 
percentage additional on each purchase for bookkeeping. It will 
readily be seen that such a plan gives the cash customers, especially 
if they carry their purchases, a decided advantage over credit cus- 
tomers. Also, the grocer is better able to sell his wares at a lower 
price than the credit grocer who makes free deliveries and no charge 
for bookkeeping. 

KEEPING HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS 

7. Necessity for Keeping Accounts. — Practically every 
family is limited to a definite sum of money that may be spent for 
food. The first consideration, then, while it may not be the most 
important one, is that of making each dollar buy all that it possibly 
can in brder that the income may meet all the demands upon it. 
Various conditions arise that aflfect the proportion of the income to 
be used for this purpose. For instance, two women whose husbands 
have equal incomes would, under the same conditions, have an equal 
amount of money to spend for food, but as a rule there is some- 
thing to cause this amount to become unequal. One woman may 
have two children in her family while the other has none, a con- 
dition that means, of course, that the woman with the children 
will have less money to spend for food and with that money she must 
feed more persons. Her family must be, if possible, as well 
nourished as the other one. In order to accomplish this task, it will 
be necessary to supply all the required food material in a form that 
will cost less than the food purchased by the woman who has a 
smaller family to feed and clothe. 

An excellent way in which to keep expenses down and conse- 
quently to live within one's income is to keep a simple record of 
household expenses. Such a record will enable every housewife to 
determine just what each item of household necessities costs and 
whether or not the proportion of cost to income is correct. To keep 
a record of expenditures will not prove much of a task if it is done 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



systematically, for a few minutes a day will be sufficient time in 
which to keep accounts up to date. However, if account keeping is 
attempted, it should not be neglected even for a day, for it will soon 
assume the proportions of a large task and will have a tendency to 
discourage the housewife with this part of her work. 

8. Equipment for Househ.old Account Keeping. — For 

convenience in keeping household accounts, a small desk like the one 
shown in Fig. 1 should, if possible, be secured and placed in an 
unoccupied or convenient corner of the kitchen. Here can be kept 




Fig. 1 

cook books, recipes, suitable books or caras for account keeping, 
the marketing pad, a file for bills from the grocer and the butcher, 
labels for cans and jars, etc. Here may also be placed an extension 
telephone, which, by being so convenient, will save the housewife 
many steps. A white desk with a chair to match is the most attrac- 
tive kind to select for kitchen use, but a dark one may be used if 
preferred. The desk illustrated was a simple wooden one that was 
enameled white after it was bought, but it is possible to buy white 
desks for this purpose. A small, plain table will, of course, answer 
very well if no desk is available and it is desired not to buy one. 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



9. Methods of Houseliold Account Keeping. — If the 

housewife runs a credit account with the grocer, she will learn that 
different grocers have different ways of recording her purchases. 

In some cases, she is provided with a "store book," which she 
takes to the grocer each time she makes a purchase and in which he 
records the date and the items bought by her. Then at the end of a 
stated time, usually the end of the month, when a settlement is to be 
made, the amounts for the month are totaled and a new account is 

started. With such a plan, the 
housewife does not have to keep any 
record for herself. To be certain 
that the grocer's account is accu- 
rate, she simply has to check the 
entries each time they are made in 
the book by the grocer. 

In other cases, the grocer merely 
makes out a slip, or bill, for each 
purchase and at the end of the 
month presents his statement for the 
amount due. In such an event, pro- 
vided the housewife does not wish to 
make entries into a suitable book, 
she may file the slips as she receives 
them in order that she may check 
the grocer's monthly bill as to accu- 
racy. A bill file like that shown in 
Fig. 2 is very convenient for the 
filing of bills. However, if she does 
not wish to save each slip she re- 
ceives, she may adopt one of two methods of account keeping, 
depending on how much time she has to devote to this matter. 




Fig. 2 



10. If she desires to be very systematic and has sufficient time, 
it will prove a good plan to record each purchase in a suitable book 
in the manner shown in Fig. 3. Books for this purpose can be pur- 
chased in any store where stationery is sold and are not expensive. 
In this method of recording, as a page becomes filled with items, the 
total is carried forward to each new page until the bill is paid at the 
end of the month. Then, for the next month, a new account may be 
started. This same method may also be followed in keeping 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



accounts for meats, milk, and such household expenses as rent, light, 
heat, and laundry. All these accounts, together with an account for 
clothing and one for miscellaneous expense, make up a complete 
expense account. 

11. A somewhat simpler plan and one that requires less time is 
shown in Fig. 4. When the slips are received, they should be checked 



With. 



Grocery Account 
John Smith, 420 Fourth Avenue 



10/15 



10/17 



10/19 



1 pk. Apples 

1 doz. Eggs 

1 lb. Butter 

2 lb. Sweet Potatoes 

2 cans Duff's Molasses 

1 pt. Vinegar 

1 cake Yeast 

6 lb. Crisco 

1 box Coconut 

1 can Pineapple 

1 lb. Coffee 

2 qt. Carrots 

1 box Matches 

2 bars Laundry Soap 

1 head Lettuce 

1 can Corn 

1 bu. Potatoes 

1 qt. Maple Sirup 

Forwarded 



$ .45 
.55 
.53 
.15 
.54 
.10 
.04 
1.98 
.35 
.25 
.40 
.10 
.10 
.12 
.08 
.20 
2.00 
.65 



$8.59 



Fig. 3 

to see whether they are correct and then added to get the total. 
Only this total, together with the date, is placed in the book kept for 
the purpose, the slips then being discarded. Such a plan will prove 
very satisfactory for the various household expenses if care is used 
in checking the items of the slips and in adding them. 

Regarding the settlement of her accounts, the housewife who buys 
on credit will find it a good plan to pay her bills by check. Then 



8 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



receipts will not have to be saved, for the returned check is usually 
all that is required to prove that a bill has been paid. 

12. The housewife who buys for cash does not necessarily have 
to keep a detailed record of her purchases, for by simply filing her 
purchase slips in the manner shown in Fig. 2 she can determine at 
any time what her money has been used for. Still, in every well- 
regulated household, it is advisable to keep a daily record of income 
and expenditure ; that is, to put down every day how much is spent 



With. 



Grocery Account 
John Smith, 420 Fourth Avenue 



10/2 

10/3 

10/6 

10/8 

10/10 

10/13 

10/15 

10/17 

10/20 

10/22 

10/24 

10/27 

10/29 

10/31 



Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Groceries 

Forwarded 



$ 2.10 
2.76 
.42 
4.12 
1.09 
.32 
2.30 
2.13 
1.93 
3.97 
1.69 
4.10 
1.12 
3.35 



$31.40 



Fig. 4 

for food, laundry, cleaning, and, in fact, all expenditures, as well as 
how much cash is received. Indeed, if such an account is kept, the 
tendency of money to "slip away" will be checked and a saving of 
money is bound to result. 

13. A simple plan for keeping such a record is illustrated in 
Fig. 5. For this record it is possible to buy sheets of paper or cards 
already ruled at any stationery store, but it is a simple matter to rule 
sheets of blank paper that will answer the purpose very well. As 
will be observed, there is a space provided for every day of the 
month and columns into which may be placed the expenditures for 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



groceries, including fruits and vegetables, as well as for meats and 
fish, milk, laundry and cleaning, and miscellaneous items, such as 



Expenditures and Receipts for the Month of - 



May 



-, 19- 



Date 


Groceries 


Meats and 
Fish 


Milk 


Laundry 

and 
Cleaning 


Miscel- 
laneous 
Expendi- 
tures 


Daily 
Outlay 


Money 
Received 


I 


$ 2.10 


$ .60 


$ .28 


$ 1.50 




$ 4.48 


$ 5^70 


2 




.40 


.28 






.68 




3 


2.76 


1.90 


.28 




$ -35 


5^29 


15.00 


4 






.28 






.28 




5 






.28 






.28 




6 


.42 




.28 




•35 


1.05 




7 




■36 


.28 




.10 


■74 




8 


4.12 




.28 


2.00 


.40 


6.80 




9 






.28 






.28 




10 


1.09 


1-85 


.28 




•38 


3.60 


15.00 


II 






.28 






.28 




12 






.28 




•35 


•63 




13 


•32 


.76 


.28 






1.36 




14 






.28 




■19 


■47 




15 


2.30 




.28 


1.50 


.12 


4.20 




16 




■53 


.28 






.81 




17 


2.13 


1.63 


.28 




.60 


4.64 


15.00 


18 






.28 






.28 




19 






.28 




.22 


■50 




20 


1-93 




.28 




.40 


2.61 




21 




.90 


.28 






1. 18 




22 


3-97 




.28 


2.00 


.40 


6.65 




23 






.28 






.28 




24 


1.69 


2.24 


.28 




.80 


5^01 


15.00 


25 






.28 




.10 


■38 




26 






.28 


1.50 




1.78 




27 


4.10 




.28 




■35 


4-73 




28 




•38 


.28 






.66 




29 


1. 12 


.46 


.28 


1.50 


.40 


3^76 




30 






.28 






.28 




31 


3-35 


1.87 


.28 




■55 


6.05 


15.00 


Total 


$31.40 


$13.88 


$8.68 


$10.00 


$6.06 


$70.02 


$80.70 



Fig. S 



ice and other necessities that are not ordinarily classed as groceries. 
Of course, the number of columns to be used can be regulated by the 
person keeping the account, the illustration simply showing the gen- 



10 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

eral procedure. However, one column should be devoted to the 
daily expenditure, the figures here being the amounts of the total 
money spent for the diflferent items each day. In the last column 
should be recorded the various amounts of money received by the 
housewife during the month for the settlement of her bills. At the 
end of the month, all of the columns should be totaled. The total 
of the daily outlay should equal that of the preceding columns. The 
difference between this total and that of the money received will 
show the housewife just how she stands with regard to income and 
expenditure for foods and kitchen supplies. In this case, there is an 
excess of expenditure amounting to $10.68, and this sum should be 
forwarded to the June account. On the other hand, should the house- 
wife find that her expenses exceed her allowance, she will know 
that it will be necessary for her to curtail her expenditures in some 
way. 

Such a method of record keeping could also be followed with good 
results for showing the distribution of the entire income of a family. 
It would simply mean the planning of suitable columns for the 
different items of expenditure. 

14. Too much cannot be said of the merit of following some 
such simple account-keeping method as the ones here outlined, for, 
as has been explained, it will enable the housewife to know with a 
fair degree of accuracy what she has spent her money for. In addi- 
tion to the satisfaction this will give, it will supply a basis from 
which she can apportion, or budget, her yearly income if she so 
desires. By giving careful consideration to the various items of 
expense, she may find it possible to reduce some of them in order to 
increase her savings account or to have money for other items that 
require a larger expenditure. 



COST OF FOODS 



FACTORS INFLtJENCING COST 

15. Certain factors that enter into the production of food add 
so much to the cost that they must be taken into consideration when 
food is purchased. The housewife who disregards these factors 
fails in the purchase of food, for she does not know so well what 
foods to buy nor how to buy them in a way to keep down the cost as 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



11 



the woman who is familiar with these matters. It is possible that 
the cost of a food may be out of all proportion to its value because 
of the profits that must necessarily be paid to each person through 
whose hands the food passes. In the first place, the overhead 
expenses of the food dealer must be paid by the housewife, who is 
regarded as the consumer. These expenses include his rent, light, 
and heat, his hired help, such as clerks, bookkeepers, delivery men, 
and the cost of delivery. In addition, the cost of transportation 
figures in prominently if the foods have to be shipped any distance, 
the manufacturer's profit must often be counted in, and the cost of 



fl) Producer — »— Consumer 



(9) Producer — »- Petailer 



Consumer 




Fig. 6 

advertising must not be overlooked. With all such matters, the 
housewife must acquaint herself if she would buy in the most 
economical way. 

16. Chart of Food Problem. — To assist the housewife in her 
mastery of the purchasing side of the food problem, a chart. Fig. 6, 
is presented. This chart shows the various routes through which 
foods travel before they reach the housewife, or consumer. The 
lines used to connect all dealers from the producer to the consumer 
represent transportation or delivery, and the increase in cost due to 
overhead expense and profit is indicated by the black spaces, which 
increase in size as the number of dealers increase. The producer 
may be the manufacturer, but in most cases he is the farmer, the 



12 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

stockman, the dairyman, or the fruit grower. The dealers handling 
the food between the producer and the consumer are known as 
middlemen. They include the wholesaler, the jobber, and the 
retailer. The retailer is the grocer, the butcher, or the green grocer. 

17. So that this chart may be clearly understood, several con- 
crete examples are given. Thus, the farmer who delivers vegetables 
directly to the consumer is an example of plan No. L He has very 
little overhead expense and consequently can sell cheaper than 
dealers who have a large overhead expense. However, when the 
farmer delivers his vegetables to the grocer and the grocer sells 
them to the consumer, an example of plan No. 2 is afforded. Food 
bought in this way costs more than that bought directly from the 
farmer. In plan No. 3, the farmer, for instance, sells his vegetables 
to'a wholesaler, who perhaps buys from other farmers and then sells 
small quantities of them to the grocer for sale to the consumer. 
This plan, as will readily be seen, is more involved than either No. 1 
or No. 2, but a still more roundabout route is that of plan No. 4. In 
this case, for instance, the farmer sells his vegetables to a canning 
factory, where they are canned and then sold to the grocer, who 
sells them in this form to the consumer. Often two wholesalers, the 
second one being known as a jobber, are involved in the transaction, 
as in plan No. 5. In such an event, the farmer sells to the whole- 
saler, who sells to the jobber, who, in turn, sells to the grocer, from 
whom the consumer secures the goods. The most complicated route 
is that shown in plan No. 6. This illustrates the case of the farmer 
who sells his cereal products to a manufacturer, who makes them 
up into breakfast foods. He then sells them in large quantities to 
the wholesaler, who sells them in 50- or 100-case lots to the jobber. 
From the jobber they go to the grocer, who delivers them to the 
consumer. 

From a study of this chart, it can be readily seen that the cost of 
food may be reduced if the middlemen can be eliminated. For 
instance, the housewife will be able to get fruits and vegetables 
cheaper if she buys them from a farmer instead of a grocer, for she 
will not be called on to pay any of the grocer's overhead expense or 
profit. Again, if she buys her staple groceries in a store that is able 
to eliminate the wholesaler or the jobber, she will get them at a 
lower price than if she deals where these agencies must receive their 
share of the profits. 



§26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 13 

18. Nationally Advertised Goods. — Much is said about the 
fact that the consumer, in buying package foods that are nationally 
advertised, must pay for the package and the advertising. This 
statement is absolutely true ; but it must be remembered that where 
large quantities of foods are handled, the materials can be bought by 
the manufacturer or the wholesaler at a lower price than by one who 
purchases only a small amount. Then, too, if great quantities are 
sold, and this condition is made possible only through advertising, 
the profit on each package sold can be much smaller than that which 
would have to be made when. less is sold. Often, therefore, in spite 
of the advertising cost, a widely advertised food can be sold for less 
than one that is not advertised at all because a much greater quantity 
is sold. 

19. Cliaiii Stores. — The principle of selling great quantities of 
food at a comparatively small profit on each item is put into practice 
in chain stores, which are operated by different companies through- 
out the United States. Such stores are a boon to the housewife who 
must practice economy, for they eliminate a middleman by acting 
both as wholesaler and as retailer. Because of this fact, foods that 
are purchased in large quantities from the producer or manufacturer 
can be offered to the consumer at a lower price than in a retail store 
not a part of a chain. Therefore, if foods of the same quality are 
not lower in price in chain stores, it must be because the buying is 
not well done or a greater profit is made in selling them. In addi- 
tion, chain stores generally require cash for all purchases made in 
them and they do not usually deliver goods. Consequently, their 
overhead expense is materially reduced and they do not need to 
make such a large profit. 

ECONOMICAL. BUYING 

20. Apportionment of Income. — When the housewife 
thoroughly understands the qualities of .foods as well as their com- 
parative food values and is familiar with the factors that govern 
food prices, she is well equipped to do economical buying for her 
family. Then it remains for her to purchase the right kind of food 
and at the same time keep within her means. A good plan is to 
apportion the household expenses according to a budget; that is, to 
prepare a statement of the financial plans for the year. Then the 
amount of money that can be used for this part of the household 



14 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



%26 



expenses will be known and the housewife will be able to plan defi- 
nitely on what she can buy. If necessary, this amount may be 
reduced through the housewife's giving careful attention to the details 
of buying, or if she is not obliged to lower her expanses, she may 
occasionally purchase more expensive foods, which might be consid- 
ered luxuries, to give variety to the diet. The amount of money 
that may be spent for food depends, of course, on the income, and 
the greater the income, the lower will be the proportion of money 
required for this item of the household expense. 

21. To throw some light on the proper proportion of the family 
income to spend for food. Table I is given. As the basis of this 
table, a family of five is taken and the proportion that may be spent 

TABLE I 

PROPORTIOIV OF FAMILY INCOME FOR FOOD 



Income 

per 

Year 


Per Cent, of 

Income Spent 

for Food 


Amount Spent 

per Year for 

Food 


Amount Spent 
per Day for 
Five Persons 


Amount Spent 

per Day per 

Person 


$1,200 


48 


$576 


$1.57 


$ .31 


1,500 


44 


660 


1.80 


.36 


1,800 


39 


702 


1.92 


.38 


2,400 


30 


720 


1.97 


.39 


3,000 


26 


780 


2.14 


.43 


4,000 


22 


880 


2.41 


.48 



for food has been worked out for incomes ranging from $1,200 to 
$4,000 a year. As will be noted, an income of $1,200 permits an 
expenditure of only 31 cents a day for each person. \\''hen food 
prices are high, it will be a difficult matter to feed one person for 
that amount, and still if the income is only $1,200 it will be necessary 
to do this. With a food expenditure of 48 cents a day per person, 
which is the amount allotted for an income of $4,000, the housewife 
who plans her meals carefully should find it possible to provide for 
her family not only necessities but some luxuries as well. 

Various conditions greatly affect this proportion. Otie of these 
is the rise and fall of the food cost. Theoretically, the buyer should 
adjust this difference in the food cost rather than increase her 
expenditures. For instance, if in a certain year, the general cost of 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 15 

food is 20 per cent, greater than it was in the preceding year, the 
housewife should adjust her plan of buying so that for the same 
amount of money spent in the previous year she will be able to 
supply her family with what they need. Of course, if there is an 
increase in the income, it will not be so necessary to work out such 
an adjustment. 

22. Economies in Purchasing Food. — Through her study 
of the preceding lessons, the student has had an opportunity to learn 
how to care for food in order to avoid loss and waste, how to prepare 
it so that it may be easily digested and assimilated, and how to make 
it appetizing and attractive so that as little as possible is left over 
and none is wasted. She should therefore be thoroughly acquainted 
with the methods of procedure in regard to all such matters and 
should have worked out to her satisfaction the best ways of accom- 
plishing these things to suit her individual needs. But, in addition to 
these matters, she must give strict attention to her food purchases if 
she ^yould secure for her family the most wholesome and nourishing 
foods for the least expenditure of money. 

23. To purchase food that will provide the necessary food value 
for a small outlay is possible to a certain extent, but it cannot be 
done without the required knowledge. In the first place, it means 
that fewer luxuries can be indulged in and that the family dietary 
will have to be reduced to necessities. It may also mean that there 
will probably be a difference in the quality of the food purchased. 
For instance, it may be necessary to practice such economies as 
buying broken rice at a few, cents a pound less than whole rice or 
purchasing smaller prunes with a greater number to the pound at a 
lower price than the larger, more desirable ones. The housewife 
need not hesitate in the least to adopt such economies as these, for 
they are undoubtedly the easiest ways in which to reduce the food 
expenses without causing detriment to any one. 

24. Further economy can be practiced if a little extra attention 
is given in the purchase of certain foods. As is well known, the 
packages and cans containing food are labeled with the contents and 
the weight of the contents. These should be carefully observed, as 
should also the number of servings that may be obtained from the 
package or can. For instance, the housewife should know the weight 
per package of the various kinds of prepared cereals she uses and 
the number of servings she is able to procure from each package. 

W I— C 5-19 



16 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

Let it be assumed that she buys two packages of different cereals at 
the same time, which, for convenience, may be called package No. 1 
and package No. 2. She finds that No. 1 contains 16 ounces and 
No. 2, only 12 ounces ; so she knows that No. 1 furnishes the greater 
amount of food by weight for the money spent. But, on the other 
hand, No. 2 may go farther ; that is, it may serve a greater number 
of persons. This, in all probability, means that the cereals are 
similar in character, but that the food value, of the servings from 
No. 2 is greater than that of the servings from No. 1. No. 2 is 
therefore the more economical of the two. Matters of this kind 
must not be overlooked, especially in the feeding of children. 

Then, too, the housewife should work out carefully which she 
can use to greater advantage, prepared or unprepared cereals. If 
she finds that unprepared cereals are the more economical and if 
she can depend on their food value as being as high as that of the 
prepared ones, she should by all means give them the preference. 
Of course, she may use prepared cereals for convenience or for 
varying the diet, but the more economical ones should be used with 
greater regularity. 

25. Canned goods should be carefully observed. A certain 
brand of tomatoes, for instance, may have 16 ounces to the can, 
whereas another brand that can be bought for the same price may 
have 24 ounces. There may be, however, and there probably is, a 
great difference in the quality of the tomatoes. The 24-ounce can 
may have a much greater proportion of water than the 16-ounce can, 
and for this reason will not serve to the same advantage. As it is 
with canned tomatoes, so is it with canned corn, peas, and other 
canned vegetables, for the price depends altogether on the quality. 
Therefore, several brands should be compared and the one should 
be purchased which seems to furnish the most food or the best 
quality of food for the least money, provided the quality continues. 

26. In the preparation of meat, there is always some waste, and 
as waste is a factor that has much to do with the increasing of costs, 
it should be taken into consideration each time a piece of meat is 
purchased. If there is time for some experimenting, it makes an 
interesting study to weigh the meat before and after preparation, for 
then the amount of shrinkage in cookery, as well as the waste in 
bone, skin, and other inedible material, can be determined. 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 1^ 

An actual experiment made with a 4-pound chicken showed that 
there was a loss of 2f pounds ; that is, the weight of the edible meat 
after deducting the waste was only 1 J pounds. The following shows 
how this weight was detei'mined : 

Pounds 
Weight of chicken, including head, feet, and entrails. . . 4 

Weight of head, feet, and entrails 1^ 

Weight of bones after cooking J 

Weight of skin after cooking ^ 

Shrinkage in cooking f 

Total amount of waste 2f 

Actual weight of edible meat l:i 

It will readily be seen that chicken at 40 cents a pound would 
make the cost per pound of edible meat amount to exactly $1.28, a 
rather startling result. It is true, of course, that the busy housewife 
with a family can hardly spare the time for the extra labor such 
experiments require ; still the greater the number of persons to be 
fed, the more essential is the need for economy and the greater are 
the possibilities for waste and loss. 

27. The home production of foods does not belong strictly to 
economical buying, still it is a matter that offers so many advantages 
to the economical housewife that she cannot afford to overlook it. 
A small garden carefully prepared and well cultivated will often 
produce the summer's supply of fresh vegetables, with sufficient 
overproduction to permit much to be canned for winter. Not only 
do foods produced in a home garden keep down the cost of both 
summer and winter foods, but they add considerably to the variety 
of menus. 



la THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 



CORRECT DIET 



SUITABILITY OF FOOD 

28. At the same time the housewife is making a study of 
economy and trying to procure as nearly as possible the best quality 
and the largest quantity of food for the amount of money she has 
to spend, she must consider the suitability of this food for the per- 
sons to whom it is to be served. This matter is undoubtedly of 
greater importance than economy, for, regardless of the amount of 
money that is to be spent, suitable foods for the nourishment of all 
the members of the family must be supplied to them. For instance, 
a family of two may have $10 a week to spend for food, whereas 
one of five may perhaps have no more ; but the larger family must 
have nourishing food just as the one of two must have. Therefore, 
whether the housewife has much or little to spend, her money must 
purchase food suited to the needs of her family. Unless she is able 
to accomplish this, she fails in the most important part of her work 
as a housewife, and as a result, the members of her family are not 
properly nourished. 

29. It has long been an established fact that correct diet is the 
greatest factor in maintaining bodily health. Food is responsible for 
the growth and maintenance of the body tissues, as well as for their 
repair. In addition, it supplies the body with heat and energy. 
Consequently, taking the right food into the body assists in keeping 
a person in a healthy condition and makes work and exercise 
possible. 

Because so much depends on the diet, the housewife, while con- 
sidering what can be bought with the money she has to spend, must 
also decide whether the foods she plans to buy are suitable for the 
needs of her family. In fact, she should be so certain of this matter 
that she will automatically plan her menus in such a way that they 
will contain all that is necessary for each person to be fed. But, as 
every housewife knows, the appetites of her family must also be 
taken into consideration. Theoretically, she should feed her family 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 19 

what the various members need, regardless of their likes and dis- 
likes. However, very few persons are willing to be fed in this way ; 
in truth, it would be quite useless to serve a dish for which no one 
in the family cared and in addition it would be one of the sources of 
waste. 

30. To make the work of the housewife less difficult, children 
should be taught as far as possible to eat all kinds of food. Too 
often this matter is disregarded, and too often, also, are the kinds of 
food presented to a family regulated by the likes and dislikes of the 
person preparing the food. Because she is not fond of certain 
foods, she never prepares them; consequently, the children do not 
learn to like them. On the other hand, many children develop a 
habit of complaining about foods that are served and often refuge 
to eat what is set before them. Such a state of affairs should not be 
permitted. Indeed, every effort should be made to prevent a spirit 
of complaint. If the housewife is certain that she is providing the 
members of her family with the best that she can purchase with the 
money she has to spend and that she is giving them what they need, 
complaining on their part should be discouraged. 

31. With a little effort, children can be taught to like a large 
variety of foods, especially if these foods are given to them while 
they are still young. It is a decided advantage for every one to form 
a liking for a large number of foods. The person who can say that 
he cares for everything in the way of food is indeed fortunate, for 
he has a great variety from which to choose and is not so likely to 
have served to him a meal in which there are one or more dishes 
that he cannot eat because of a distaste for them. 

Every mother should therefore train her children during their 
childhood to care for all the cereals, vegetables, and fruits. Besides 
affording the children a well-balanced diet, these foods, particularly 
vegetables and fruits, when served in their season, offer the house- 
wife a means of planning economical menus, for, as every one 
knows, their price is then much lower than at any other time and is 
less than that of most other foods. During the winter, turnips, car- 
rots, onions, and other winter vegetables are more economical f oodt 
than summer vegetables that must be canned or otherwise prepared 
to preserve them for winter use or the fresh summer vegetables 
purchased out of season. However, it is advisable to vary the diet 
occasionally with such foods. 



20 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 



COMPOSITION OF FOOD 

32. To feed her family properly, the housewife should under- 
stand that the daily food must include the five food substances — 
protein, fat, carbohydrate, mineral matter, arid water. As these are 
discussed in Essentials of Cookery, Part 1, they should be clear to 
the housewife, but if they are not fully understood, a careful review 
should be made of the discussions given there. The ways in which 
these food principles contribute to the growth and health of the 
body, as well as the ordinary foods that supply them in the greatest 
number, are tabulated in Table II for easy reference. This informa- 
tion will assist the housewife materially in the selection and prepara- 
tion of food for her family ; consequently, close attention should be 
given to it and constant application made of it. 

33. As has already been learned and as will be noted here, a 
food substance often has more than one use in the body. For 
instance, protein builds tissue and also yields energ}-, but its chief 
work is that of building tissue, and so it is classed first as a tissue- 
building food substance. The fats and carbohydrates also have a 
double use in the body, that of producing heat and energy and of 
building fatty tissue. However, as their chief use is to produce heat 
and energy, they are known principally as heat-producing foods. 
Mineral matter not only is necessary for the building of bone and 
muscle, but also enters into the composition of the blood and all 
the fluids in the body. Growth and development are not ideal with- 
out an adequate supply of the many kinds of these salts, which go to 
make up the tissues, nerves, blood, and other fluids in the body. 

34. The body regulators must be included in the food given, for 
they assist in all processes carried on in the body. Some are neces- 
sary to aid in the stimulation required to carry on the processes of 
digestion and in some cases make up a part of the digestive fluids. 
Consequently, vegetables and fruits that supply these body regulators 
and foods that supply vitamines should be provided. 

Water, the chief body regulator, not only is essential to life itself, 
but forms by far a greater proportion of the body than any other 
single substance. The largest part of the water required in the 
body is supplied as a beverage and the remainder is taken in with 
the foods that are eaten. 



TABLE II 



POOD SUBSTANCES AND THEIR 



I Body-building 
materials 



Proteins. 



RELATION TO GROWTH AND HEALTH 

'Meat 

Fish and shell fish 

Poultry and game 

Eggs 

Milk and milk products 

Legumes (dried beans, peas, len- 
tils) 

Wheat and wheat products, as 
com starch 

.Nuts 

Vegetables 

Fruits 



Mineral matter, or ash. 



II 



Heat-produc- 
ing materials 



III Body regu- 
lators 



Fats. 



Animal. 



Vegetable . . . 



Milk 

Cereals 

Meats 

Lard 

Suet 

Tallow 

Butter and cream 

Olive oil 
Com oil 
Cottonseed oU 
Coconut oil 
Nut oils 



Mixed oils, 



{Oleomargarine 
Butterine 
Nut butter 
Crisco, etc. 



|c^. . /Cereals and cereal products 

"'^^'■'^^ \ Irish and sweet potatoes 
Cane sugar and molasses 
Beet sugar 
Sugar , Maple sugar and sirup 

Honey 

Com sirup and other mi 
factured sirups 

Proteins Same as in I 

Water 

Mineral matter, or ash Same as in I 

Fruits 
Cellulose 



Food acids. 



Fat soluble A 



Vitamines 



Water sol- 
uble B.... 



Vegetables 

Covering of cereals and nuts 

Sour fruits — citric and malic 
Tomatoes — ^malic 
Spinach — oxalic 
Rhubarb — oxalic 

Milk 

Butter 

Egg yolk 

Green vegetables, as spinach, 

chard, lettuce, beet greens 
Asparagus and stem vegetables, 

as celery 
Fruit vegetables, as tomatoes, 

peppers, okra 
1 Fruits 



22 THE PLANNING OF MEALS §26 

The importance of bulk in foods cannot be emphasized too much. 
The indigestible cellulose of fruits, vegetables, and cereals is of such 
importance in the body that some of these foods should be supplied 
with every meal. Therefore, their incorporation into the diet should 
be considered as a definite part of the menu-making plan. 

The acids of fruits are valuable as stimulants both to the appetite 
and to the digestion. Then, too, they give a touch of variety to a 
menu otherwise composed of rather bland foods. The stimulation 
they produce is much more healthful than that of condiments, drugs, 
or alcoholic beverages and should receive the preference. 

Vitamines are substances necessary for both growth and health. 
A child deprived of the foods containing them is usually not well and 
does not grow nor develop normally. These substances are also 
required in the diet of adults in order to maintain the body in a 
healthy condition. The leafy vegetables and milk are the foods that 
yield the greatest supply of vitamines. In fact, it is claimed by those 
who have experimented most with this matter that these two sources 
will supply the required amount of vitamines under all conditions. 



BALANCING THE DIET 



QUANTITY AND PROPORTION OP FOODS 

35. Factors Influencing Food. — Numerous factors affect 
the kind and quantity of food necessary for an individual. Chief 
among these are age, size, sex, climate, and work or exercise. In 
addition to determining the amount of food that must be taken into 
the body, these factors regulate largely the suitability of the foods to 
be eaten. It is true, of course, that all the food substances mentioned 
in Table II must be included in every person's diet after the first few 
years of his life, but the quantity and the proportion of the various 
substances given vary with the age, sex, size, and work or exercise of 
the person and the climate in which he lives. Merely to provide 
dishes that supply sufficient food value is not enough. This food 
material must be given in forms that can be properly digested and 
assimilated and it must be in the right proportion for the person's 
needs. The aim should therefore be to provide a balanced diet, by 
which is meant one that includes the correct proportion of the 
various food substances to supply the needs of the individual. 



§26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 33 

36. Quantity of Food, in Calories.— Without doubt, the 
most intelligent way in which to feed people is to compute the num- 
ber of calories required daily. As will be remembered, the calorie is 
the unit employed to measure the amount of work that the food does 
in the body, either as a tissue builder or a producer of energy. The 
composition and food value of practically all foods are fairly well 
known, and with this information it is a simple matter to tell fairly 
accurately the amount of food that each person requires. 

As has been stated, the number of calories per day required by a 
person varies with the age, size, sex, and occupation of the person, 
as well as with the climate in which he lives. For the adult, this will 
vary from 1,800 to 3,000, except in cases of extremely hard labor, 
when it may be necessary to have as high as 4,500 calories. The 
average number of calories for the adult, without taking into con- 
sideration the particular conditions under which he lives or works, is 
about 2,500. Still a small woman who is inactive might be sufficiently 
fed by taking 1,800 calories a day, whereas a large man doing heavy, 
muscular work might require 3,500 to 4,000 daily. 

37. Importance of Proper Amount of Food. — Most 
authorities agree that it is advisable for adults and children well 
past the age of infancy to take all the food required in three meals. 
The taking of two meals a day is sometimes advocated, but the pos- 
sibility of securing in two meals the same quantity of food that 
would ordinarily be taken in three is rather doubtful, since it is 
assumed that large amounts of food are not so easily disposed of as 
are smaller ones. 

On the other hand, to overeat is always a disadvantage in more 
respects than one. Taking food that is not required not only is an 
extravagance in the matter of food, but overtaxes the digestive 
organs. In addition, it supplies the body with material that must be 
disposed of, so that extra work on the part of certain organs is 
required for this activity. Finally, overeating results in the develop- 
ment of excessive fatty tissue, which not only makes the body 
ponderous and inactive, but also deadens the quickness of the mind 
and often predisposes a person to disease or, in extreme cases, is 
the actual cause of illness. 

38. Effect of Weight on Diet. — An idea of the way in which 
the weight of a person affects the amount of food required can be 
obtained by a study of Tables III and IV. As will be observed, 



24 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

Table III gives the number of calories per pound of body weight 
required each day by adults engaged in the various normal activities 
that might be carried on within 24 hours. It deals only with activity, 
the various factors that might alter the amounts given being taken up 
later. The figures given are for adults and the factors mentioned 
are those which affect the intake of food to the greatest extent. 

The lowest food requirement during the entire 24 hours is during 
the time of sleep, when there is no activity and food is required for 
only the bodily functions that go on during sleep. Sitting requires 
more food than sleeping, standing, a still greater amount, and walk- 
ing, still more, because of the increase in energy needed for these 
activities. 

In a rough way, the various occupations for both men and women 
are classified under three different heads: Light Work, Moderate 

TABLE III 

CAIiORIES PER POUND FOR 34 HOURS FOR ADULTS 



Occupation 



Sleeping 

Sitting 

Standing 

Walking 

Light work . . . . 
Moderate work 
Heavy work . . . 



Calories 



12 
14 
17 
20 
22 
24 
27 



Work, and Heavy Work. It is necessary that these be understood in 
examining this table. 

Those considered as doing light work are persons who sit or stand 
at their employment without any great degree of activity. They 
include stenographers, dressmakers, milliners, teachers, clerks, shoe- 
makers, tailors, machine operators, elevator operators, and 
conductors. 

Moderate work involves a little niore activity than light work, but 
not so much as heavy work. Professional cooks, professional house- 
keepers, housekeepers in their own homes, professional chamber- 
maids, waitresses, masons, drivers, chauffeurs, plumbers, electricians, 
and machinists come under this class. 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



25 



Persons doing heavy work are the most active of all. They 
include farmers, laundresses, excavators, lumbermen, miners, metal 
workers, and soldiers on forced march. 

39. To show the variation in the amount of food required 
according to body weight. Table IV is given. The scale here pre- 
sented has been worked out for two persons who are normal and 

TABLE IV 

DIFFEREIVCE IN FOOD REJllIIRBMEIVTS THROUGH VARIATION IN 

WEIGHT 



Number of Calories for 130 Pounds 



Number of Calories for 180 Pounds 



8 hours, sleeping 520 

4 hours, sitting 303 

2 hours, standing 184 

2 hours, walking 216 

8 hours, moderate work. .1,040 
24 2;263 



8 hours, sleeping 720 

4 hours, sitting 430 

2 hours, walking 300 

2 hours, standing 238 

8 hours, moderate work. .1,440 
24 3428 



whose weight is correct, but different, one weighing 130 pounds and 
the other 180 pounds. It is assumed, however, that they are 
occupied in 24 hours with activities that are identical, each one 
sleeping 8 hours, working at moderate labor for 8 hours, walking 
2 hours, standing 2 hours, and sitting 4 hours. 

To find the total number of calories required for these activities, 
the weight, in pounds, is multiplied by the calories per pound for 
24 hours for a certain activity. Thus, as in Table IV, if a person 
weighing 130 pounds sleeps for 24 hours, the number of pounds of 
weight, or 130, would be multiplied by 12, which is the number of 
calories required per pound in 24 hours for sleeping. However, 
since only 8 hours is occupied by sleep and 8 is ^ of 24, the required 
number of calories would be only i of this number. In this way 
each item is worked out in the table, as is clearly shown by the 
following figures: 

For sleeping 130X12X h = 520 

For sitting 130X14X * = 303 

For standing 130X17XiV= 184 

For walking 130X20XiV= 216 

For moderate work 130X24X ^ = 1,040 

Total, as in Table IV 2,263 



26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



40. In this connection, it may be interesting to know the ideal 
weight for persons of a given height. Table V shows the various 
heights for both men and women, in inches, and then gives, in 
pounds, the correct weight for each height. When, from this table, 
a person determines how far he is above or below the ideal weight, 
he can tell whether he should increase or decrease the number of 
calories he takes a day. For persons who are under weight, the 

TABLE V 

CORRECT WEIGHT FOR CERTAIN HEIGHTS 



Men 


Women 


Height 


Weight 


Height 


Weight 


Inches 


Pounds 


Inches 


Povmds 


61 


131 


59 


119 


62 


133 


60 


122 


63 


136 


61 


124 


64 


140 


62 


127 


65 


143 


63 


131 


66 


147 


64 


134 


67 


152 


65 


139 


68 


157 


66 


143 


69 


162 


67 


147 


70 


167 


68 


151 


71 


173 


69 


155 


72 


179 


70 


159 


73 


185 






74 


192 






75 


200 







calories should be increased over the number given in Table III for 
the normal individual if the ideal weight would be attained. On the 
other hand, persons who are overweight should decrease the num- 
ber of calories until there is sufficient loss of weight to reach the 
ideal. Of course, an adjustment of this kind should be gradual, 
unless the case is so extreme as to require stringent measures. In 
most cases, a slight decrease or increase in the quantity of food taken 
each day will bring about the desired increase or decrease in weight. 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 2T 

41. Effect of Sex on Diet. — The difference in sex does not 
affect the diet to any great extent. Authorities claim that persons 
of opposite sex but of the same weight and engaged in the same 
work require equal quantities of food. But, in most cases, the work 
of women is lighter than that of men, and even when this is not the 
case women seem to require less food, probably because of a differ- 
ence in temperament. That taken by women is usually computed 
to be about four-fifths of the amount necessary for a man. The 
proportion of food substances does not differ, however, and when 
individual pecularities are taken into consideration, no definite rules 
can be made concerning it. 

In the case of boys and girls up to the age of young manhood and 
womanhood, the same amount of food is required, except for the 
difference in activity, boys usually being more active than girls. 

42. Effect of Climate on Diet. — The climate in which a per- 
son lives has much to do with the kind of diet he requires. In the 
extreme North, the lack of vegetation makes it necessary for the 
inhabitants to live almost entirely upon animal food except during 
the very short warm season. Consequently, their diet consists largely 
of protein and fat. Under some circumstances, a diet of this kind 
would be very unfavorable, but it seems to be correct for the people 
who live in these regions, for generations of them have accustomed 
themselves to it and they have suffered no hardship by doing so. It 
is true, however, that races of people who do not live on a well- 
balanced diet are not" physically such fine specimens as the majority 
of persons found in countries where it is possible to obtain a diet 
that includes a sufficient supply of all the food substances. 

43. In hot countries, the diet consists much more largely of 
vegetables than any other class of foods. This means that it is very 
high in carbohydrate and comparatively low* in protein and fat. As 
can well be understood, a diet of this kind is much more ideal for 
a warm climate than a diet composed to a great extent of animal 
foods. 

44. In temperate zones, the diet for both summer and winter 
seasons varies according to the appetite of the inhabitants them- 
selves. Usually a light diet consisting of fruits, vegetables, cereals, 
and a small amount of meat is found the most desirable for summer 
weather, while a similar one with a larger proportion of meat is the 



28 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

usual winter diet. On the whole, the desire for food, which, to a 
certain extent, is regulated by the climate, can be trusted to vary the 
diet fairly well for the existing conditions. 

45. Effect of Age on Diet. — The proper diet for infancy and 
childhood is a matter that must be discussed by itself, for it has prac- 
tically no connection with other diet. It is also well understood that 
up to maturity there is a difference in the diet because of a difference 
in the needs of the body. However, from maturity up to 60 years of 
age, the diet is altered by the conditions already mentioned, namely 
weight, size, sex, climate, and work or exercise. At the age of 60, 
the amount of food required begins to decrease, for as a person grows 
older, the body and all of its organs become less active. Then, too, 
there is a reduced amount of physical exercise, which correspond- 
ingly reduces the necessity for food. At this time, an oversupply of 
food merely serves to overwork the organs, which being scarcely able 
to handle the normal quantity of food certainly keep in better condi- 
tion if the amount of work they are called upon to do is decreased 
rather than increased. 

It has been estimated that persons 60 years of age require 10 per 
cent, less food than they formerly did; those 70 years old, 20 per 
cent, less; and those 80 years old, 30 per cent. less. Usually the 
appetite regulates this decrease in food, for the less active a person 
is, the less likely is the appetite to be stimulated. However, the fact 
that there is also a great difference in persons must not be lost sight 
of. Some men and women at 70 years of age are as young and just 
as active as others at 50 years. For such persons, the decrease in 
quantity of food should not begin so soon, nor should it be so great 
as that given for the more usual cases. 

46. As there is a decrease in quantity with advancing years, so 
should there be a difference in the quality of the food taken. That 
which is easily digested and assimilated is preferable to food that is 
rich or highly concentrated. Usually, it is necessary to increase the 
laxative food in the diet at this time of life, but this matter is one of 
the abnormalities of diet and therefore belongs properly to medical 
dietetics rather than to a lesson on normal diet. 



§2b THE PLANNING OF MEALS 29 



DIET FOR. INFANTS AND CHIIiDRBN 

47. From birth until a child has attained full growth, the food 
requirement is high in proportion to the size of the child. This is 
due to the fact that energy must be supplied for a great deal of 
activity, and at the same time new tissue must be manufactured 
from the food taken. It should be remembered, too, that all body 
processes during growth are extremely rapid. At birth, the avei-age 
child weighs about 7 pounds, and for several days after birth there 
is a normal loss of weight. In a few days, however, if the diet is 
correct, the child begins to increase in weight and should gain 
about i pound a week until it is 3 months old. From this time on, 
its weekly gain should be slightly less, but it should be constant. If 
the weight remains the same or there is a decrease for a number of 
consecutive days or weeks, it is certain that the diet is incorrect, that 
the quantity of food is insufficient, or that the child is ill. The 
reason for the loss should be determined at once and the trouble 
then corrected. 

Normal diet for the infant is the mother's milk, but if this cannot 
be supplied, the next best diet is modified cow's milk, which for the 
young child must be greatly diluted. If it is found necessary to give 
proprietary, or manufactured, foods, raw food of some kind should 
be used in addition, the best way to supply this being with a little 
orange juice or other fruit juice. At the age of 3 months, this may 
be given in small quantity if it is diluted, and then the amount may be 
gradually increased as the child grows older. 

48. Effect of Weiglit on Children's Diet. — The food 
requirement in the case of children is determined by weight. To 
decide on the proper amount, it is necessary to know the normal 
weight at certain ages. At birth, as has been stated, the normal 
weight is 7 pounds; at 6 months, 15 pounds; at 1 year, 21 pounds; 
at 2 years, 30 pounds. The food requirement for 24 hours per pound 
of weight is as follows: ^^^^^^^ 

24 Hotnts 

Children up to 1 year 45 

Children from 1 to 2 years 40 

Children from 2 to 5 years 36 

From a study of these figures, it will be noted that there is a 
gradual decrease in the required number of calories per pound as 



30 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

the child grows older. The decrease continues until maturity is 
reached, and then the scale for adults applies. 

49. Effect of Age on Children's Diet. — ^A child should not 
be kept exclusively on milk for more than 6 or 8 months, and then 
only in case it is fed on the mother's milk. Fruit Juice, which has 
already been mentioned as an additional food, is recommended if 
the diet requires raw food or if it is necessary to make the child's 
food more laxative. When the child reaches the age of 6 months, it 
should be taught to take foods from a spoon or a cup ; then when it 
must be weaned, the task of weaning will be much easier. At the 
age of 8 or 9 months, depending on the condition of the child, small 
amounts of well-cooked, strained cereals may be added to the diet, 
and these may gradually be decreased as the food is increased in 
variety. Up to IJ years of age, a child should have 8 ounces of milk 
three times a day, which amounts to IJ pints. At this age, half of a 
soft-cooked egg or a spoonful or two of tender meat chopped very 
fine, may be given, and for each such addition 4 ounces of milk 
should be taken out of the day's feeding. But from 1^ years up to 
5 years, at least 1 pint of milk a day should be included in the diet. 

At a little past 1 year of age, a normal child may begin taking a 
few well-cooked vegetables, such as a bit of baked potato, a spoonful 
of spinach, carrot, celery, green peas, or other vegetables that have 
been forced through a sieve or chopped very fine. At IJ years, the 
normal child should be taking each day one vegetable, a cereal, 
buttered bread or toast softened with milk, eggs, fruit juice, a little 
jelly, and plain custards. However, each of these foods should be 
added to the diet with caution and in small amounts, and if it appears 
to disagree with the child in any way, it should be discontinued until 
such time as it can be tolerated. 

In case a child is being raised on a formula of cow's milk and it is 
a strong, normal child, it should be taking whole milk at the age of 
8 or 10 months. If the child is not strong, the milk may still be 
diluted with a small amount of sterile water, but this should be 
gradually decreased until the child is able to tolerate whole milk. 

50. Feeding Scale for Infants. — It is, of course, a difficult 
matter to make definite rules for the feeding of all children, for 
conditions arise with many children that call for special plans. How- 
ever, for children that are normal, a feeding scale may be followed 
quite closely, and so the one given in Table VI is suggested. 



> 


§ 




la 


w 




?9 




^ 


O 


H 


X 









!?; 



Is 



^ a 



5 u 



g •" P. S g ft 

ma.,, £ 



« rt ^^ §.■;:■§ .g 

rt 9 o ffi* B S "O 



P-5 

fci o 



„', "] "^ 

a ^ 

• S 13 



M 



W 



S ^ s 

■^ . ° 

ci xn 

w P. o 






P. 

•d ff , 

p- g 
o -g 



p. o 



1 1 ti I -a =i I ^ s I 



wd 



TJ tC) Td T3 Tj 



CO 






S » K, oi 



p, fl 

P< '2 

2 S 



r?-d "O 



ID ,d *^ 0) 
>> O Clj u 



t» .d 



=1 



-3 3 

o d 



Pi -S 

CO O 



M-3 
cS o 



cj ■ 
P. 






S 



•d 

d 



"• .y +J 

4j 03 ra vh ' 

*^ u O to 

W O 4-» -P 



u 
o 



8-S ° 

2 ^^ ^ ^ 

rH .. . ^ O 



BO 



1^ 



^ 

d 



^ d d " " 

OS a> 3 o "g 

"^ (u d ri a -i 

d »-< O Qj in g 

Oj Ph a ^ W V-t 



0) S <" i 



S g =e 

™ d 

S « S 

3 " <3 



rd 



-d S3 
d 4J 

cS d 

o ^ 
.2 -3 
S a) 



wT-cs-a 



32 THE PLANNING OF MEALS §26 

This scale is to be used by adding to the diet for one month the 
foods suggested for the next month, giving them at the time the 
child reaches the age for which they are mentioned. For instance, a 
child of 8 months may have everything included in the first three, 
four, and six months and, in addition, beef juice, beef broth, and the 
yolk of a soft-cooked egg, which is the diet suggested for the eighth 
month. Then at the tenth month it may have all of these things 
together with those given for this month. 

51. When any of these foods is first added to the diet, much 
care is necessary. Each new food should be given cautiously, a 
teaspoonful or two at a time being sufficient at first, and its effect 
should be carefully observed before more is given. If it is found to 
disagree, it should not be repeated. If at any time a child is subject 
to an attack of indigestion, its diet should be reduced to simple foods 
and when it has recovered, new foods should be added slowly again. 
In the case of any of the ordinary illnesses to which children are 
subject, such as colds, etc., the diet should be restricted to very 
simple food, and preferably to liquids, until the illness has passed. 
The diet of a baby still being fed on milk should be reduced to barley 
water or a very little skim milk diluted with a large amount of 
sterile water. When the illness is over, the child may be gradually 
brought back to its normal diet. 



DIET FOR THE FAMILY 

52. One of the difficulties of every housewife having a family 
composed of persons of widely different tastes and ages is the 
preparation of meals that will contain sufficient food of the correct 
kind for all of them. Children up to 6 years of age usually require 
something especially prepared for their meals, except breakfast, but, 
as a rule, the selection of the diet for children from 6 )ears up to 
15 or 16 years of age is merely a matter of taking from the meal 
prepared for the remainder of the family the right amount of the 
various foods. Tea and coffee should not be included in the diet of 
growing children, and should under no circumstances be given to 
small children. If the proper method is followed in this matter, no 
difficulty will result, but where children expect to eat the food served 
to the others at the table and are not content with what is given to 
them, it is better not to feed them at the same table with the adults. 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 33 

53. The most satisfactory way in which to arrange meals that 
are to be served to persons of different ages is to include several 
foods that may be fed to all members of the family and then to 
select certain others proper only for adults and still others suitable 
for the children. A sample of such a menu for supper is the one 
here given. It is assumed that the children that are to eat this meal 
are not infants. 

supper menu 

Adults 



Rice Croquettes with Cheese Sauce 

Lettuce Salad 

Bread, Butter, Jelly 

Baked Apples 

Plain Cookies Tea 



Children 

Steamed Rice 

Bread, Butter, Jelly 

Baked Apples 

Plain Cookies Milk 



A menu of this kind is not difficult to prepare, and still it meets 
the needs of both the children and the adults of the family. The 
main dish for each has the same foundation — rice. Enough to serve 
the entire family may be steamed. Then some may be retained for 
the children and the rest made up into croquettes and served with 
cheese sauce to the adults. The remainder of the menu, bread, but- 
ter, jelly, baked apples, and plain cookies, may be eaten by every 
one. Tea will probably be preferred by the adults, but milk should 
be served to the children. Other suitable menus may be planned 
without any extra trouble if just a little thought is given to the 
matter. 



PROPORTION OF FOOD SUBSTANCES 

54. The proportion of food substances necessary for building 
and repairing the body and for providing'it with material necessary 
for its various functions is a matter to which much discussion has 
been given. Formerly, it was not understood that the protein should 
be limited to exactly what the body needed and that its requirements 
were comparatively low regardless of conditions or exercise. The 
standard for diet very often allowed as much as 25 per cent, in pro- 
tein. This percentage has been gradually reduced by the discovery 
of the actual body needs, so that now it is believed by the most 
dependable authorities that only about 10 per cent, of the entire day's 
rations for the adult should be protein. The growing child needs a 
greater proportion than this because he is building up muscle tissue. 
The adult whose muscles have been entirely constructed requires 



34 THE PLANNING OF MEALS §26 

protein only for repair, and 10 per cent, of the day's food in protein 
is sufficient for this. This means that if the total calories for the daj 
are 2,500, only 250 of them need be protein. 

55. The remainder of the calories are largely made up by fat 
and carbohydrate. These, however, need not be in such exact pro- 
portion as the protein, for no real danger lies in having either one 
in a greater amount than the ideal proportion. This is usually three- 
tenths fat and six-tenths carbohydrate or in a diet of 2,500 calories, 
750 fat and 1,500 carbohydrate. The carbohydrate is very much in 
preponderance because of its easy digestion and assimilation. As 
may be imagined, it is not a simple matter to figure a diet as closely 
and carefully as this, and it is only in extreme cases where such 
planning is necessary. 

56. The required amount of protein for the ordinary daily diet 
can be had with about 3 ounces of meat, together with that which is 
found in the bread, vegetables, and cereals taken each day. At any 
rate, the menu should be planned so as to supply a protein dish for 
at least one meal in the day. The fat is supplied largely by the 
butter taken and the fat used in the cooking of foods. The car- 
bohydrate is provided by the starch found in cereals, bread, and 
vegetables and by the sugar contained in fruits, as well as that used in 
the preparation of various foods and in the sweetening of beverages, 
cereals, and fruits. 

In addition to providing these food substances, each meal should 
include at least one food, and for dinner preferably two foods, that 
will supply a large amount of mineral salts, cellulose, and vitamines. 
As will be remembered, 'fruits and vegetables are the foods to be 
used for this purpose. 

57. This method of menu planning may seem somewhat difficult 
at first thought, but in reality it is not different from that which the 
intelligent housewife follows who attempts to provide her family 
with a variety of foods and who appreciates the value of that variety. 
If she plans her menu in this manner, prepares the food so that it 
will be wholesome, easily digested, and given in the proper propor- 
tion, and at the same time watches the weights of the members of 
the family in the manner suggested, she need have no fear about the 
general health of her family, for it will be well maintained. 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 35 



MENU MAKINGS AND TABLE SERVICE 



GENERAL RULES FOJR MENU MAKING 

58. Perhaps the greatest problem in the planning of menus for 
a family is that of securing sufficient variety. A housewife who 
uses the same recipes and the same combinations of food repeatedly 
is apt to get into a rut and the members of her family will undoubt- 
edly lose interest in their meals. This condition results- even with 
the dishes of which .those of the family are extremely fond. How- 
ever, they will not tire so quickly of the foods they care for if such 
foods are served to them less often. Then, too, there is more chance 
to practice economy when a larger variety of food is used. 

The importance of planning menus systematically should not be 
overlooked, either, no matter how simple they may be. Even if 
breakfast consists of only two or more dishes, luncheon of three 
or four, and dinner of no more than four or five, a certain amount 
of planning should be done in order that the meal may be properly 
balanced. If the suggestions for meal planning already given are 
applied to this work, very little difficulty will be experienced in 
providing meals that are both attractive and properly balanced. In 
addition to these suggestions, a few general rules for menu making 
ought to be observed. Most of these are simple and can be 
followed with very little effort. 

59. Unless the menu is planned for a special occasion, the cost 
of the various dishes should be made to balance. For instance, if 
an expensive meat is to be served, the vegetables and the salad 
selected to accompany it should be of moderate cost. On the other 
hand, if an expensive salad is to be served, a dessert of moderate 
cost, such as a simple rice pudding, should be used to offset the price 
of the other dish. Planning meals in this way is urged for the sake 
of economy, and if it is carefully followed, all the meals may be 
made to average about the same cost. 

60. Another important point in successful meal planning is the 
avoidance of two dishes in the same meal made from the same food. 



36 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

For instance, tomato soup and tomato salad should not be served in 
the same meal, for the combination is undesirable. Corn soup 
contrasts much better with tomato salad than does the tomato 
soup, for it has the bland flavor that is needed to offset the acid 
salad. Some housewives, it is true, object to such planning on 
the ground that it does not give them opportunity to utilize all the 
materials they may have on hand at the same time. But in nearly 
every instance the materials can be used to excellent advantage in 
meals that are to follow and, in addition, the gain in variety is 
sufficient to warrant the adoption of such a method. 

61. As there should be variety in the materials used to make up 
the dishes of a meal, so should there be variety in the flavor of the 
foods selected. Rice, macaroni, and potato, for instance, make an 
undesirable combination. They are too similar because they are all 
high in starch; besides, they resemble one another too closely in 
consistency and they are all bland in flavor. If a meal contains one 
or two bland dishes, a special effort should be made to supply some 
highly flavored dish in order to relieve the monotony. The same 
thing may be said of acid foods ; that is, an oversupply of these is 
just as distasteful as too many bland foods. 

62. To have fresh fruit for the daily breakfast would be very 
delightful, but such fruit cannot always be secured. \\'hen fresh 
fruit cannot be had every day, it is better to alternate it with canned 
fruit or stewed dried fruit than to have it for several days in suc- 
cession and then have to serve the alternative for a number of days. 
The same is true of cereals. If use is to be made of both cooked and 
uncooked cereals, it is much better to alternate them than to serve 
the cooked ones for breakfast for an entire week and then uncooked 
ones the next week. 

63. When two vegetables are used in the same meal, they should 
be different. Sweet potatoes and white potatoes, although often 
served together, do not belong in the same meal. In fact, for most 
seasons of the year, two vegetables dissimilar in consistency should 
be supphed. For instance, if spinach is included in a meal, some 
contrasting vegetable, such as carrots, shell beans, etc., should be 
served with it. Beets and carrots would not make a good combina- 
tion, nor should cabbage be combined with spinach, especiallj' if both 
vegetables are prepared with a sour dressing. 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 37 

64. A bland food or one high in fat, such as roast pork, certain 
kinds of fish, etc., is much more palatable if a highly seasoned sauce 
or another highly seasoned food or, in fact, a food of an entirely 
different flavor is served with it. Apple sauce or baked apples are 
usually served with roast pork for this purpose, while sour sauces or 
pickles of some description are served with fish to relieve its 
blandness. 

65. To secure the most successful meals, the main course should 
be decided upon first and the additional dishes, such as soup, salad, 
and dessert, should be the second consideration. In this method of 
planning meals, they can be properly balanced, for if the main course 
is heavy, the others can be made light or some of them omitted alto- 
gether, while if the main course is a light one, heavier dishes may be 
selected to accompany it. 

Whenever it is possible to do so, the heavy meal of the day should 
be served at noon and the lighter one in the evening. This plan 
should always be followed for children, and it is preferable for 
adults. However, having dinner at noon is often very inconvenient 
and sometimes impossible, because frequently one or more members 
of the family are at business some distance from home and their 
coming home at noon for dinner is impractical. In such an event, 
the evening meal should be the heavy one, but it should not be made 
too hearty and overeating should be avoided. 

At all meals, tea and coffee should be used sparingly. Especially 
should this rule be followed by persons who are nervous, or high 
strung, or are troubled with indigestion and insomnia. At any rate, 
it is advisable not to drink either of these beverages at night. 



METHODS OF SECURING VARIETY IN MEALS 



CARD-FILE SYSTEM OF MENU MAKING 

66. With the general rules for meal planning in mind, the 
housewife is well prepared to arrange menus that will be properly 
balanced, as well as varied and attractive. One means of securing 
variety in menus, and at the same time supplying oneself with a very 
convenient piece of kitchen equipment, consists in placing the recipes 
used on small cards and filing them in a card file under the headings 



38 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



to which they belong, as shown in Figs. 7 and 8. For instance, a 
heading should be made for soups, one for potatoes, and so on. 

These cards may then be 
rotated in order to make up 
menus. When the first 
card of each group has 
been used, it should be 
placed at the back of the 
others in that group; then 
each one will come in the 
order in which it was origi- 
nally placed in the file. Of 
course, when the cards are 
not filed alphabetically, it 
is a little more difficult to 
find the recipes one needs 
at a particular time, and so 
if desired other means of 
using the cards for menu 
making may be easily de- 
vised without changing 
their position. 

In addition to serving as a basis for menus, this arrangement takes 
the place of a cook book. In fact, it is much more convenient, for 
instead of a book containing recipes on tlic table where ihe work is 
being done, a small card, which takes up less space and is much less 
likely to be in the way, may 
be substituted. 




Fig. 7 




DINNER MENUS 

67. To assist the house- 
wife materially in planning 
dinners in great variety, 
Table VII, which contains 
suggestions for dinner 
menus, is given. As will be 
noted, it is intended that 

each dinner shall consist of a soup, a meat, potatoes in some form, 
another vegetable, a salad, and a dessert. It is not necessary, of 



TABLE VII 

SUGGESTIONS FOR DINNER MENUS 





Soup 




Potatoes 




Salads 


1. 


Tomato Bouillon 


1. 


Boiled Potatoes with 


1. 


Apple and Celery 


2. 


Rice 




Butter and Parsley 


2. 


Lettuce 


3. 


Cream of Corn 


2. 


Scalloped Potatoes 


3. 


Banana 


4. 


Noodle 


3. 


Hashed-Brown Pota- 


4. 


Orange and Coconut 


5. 


Cream of Pea 




toes 


S. 


Cabbage 


6. 


Julienne 


4. 


Baked Potatoes 


6. 


Tomato 


7. 


Clear Bouillon 


S. 


Potato Puff 


7. 


Peas and Celery 


8. 


Oxtail 


6. 


French Fried Pota- 


8. 


Apple, Date, and 


9. 


Split-Pea Puree 




toes 




Orange 


10. 


Cream of Tomato 


7. 


Potato Patties 


9. 


Asparagus 


11. 


Celery 


8. 


Roast Potatoes 


10, 


Pineapple and Nut 


12. 


Cream of Onion 


9. 


Candied Sweet Pota- 


11. 


Green Pepper and 


13. 


Barley Broth 




toes 




Cheese 


14. 


Cream of Asparagus 


10. 


Mashed Potatoes 


12. 


String Bean 


IS. 


Vegetable 


11. 


Creamed Potatoes 


13. 


Fruit 


16. 


Corn Chowder 


12. 


Stuffed Potatoes 


14. 


Combination 






13. 


Baked Sweet Pota- 


IS. 


Cucumber 








toes 


16. 


Waldorf 






14. 


Potatoes au Gratin 


17. 


Cabbage and Celery 






IS. 


Sauted Potatoes 


18. 
19. 


Pineapple and Cream 

Cheese 
Humpty Dumpty 




Meat 




Vegetables 




Desserts 


1. 


Roast Beef 


1. 


Spinach 


1. 


Chocolate Blanc 


2. 


Pork Chops 


2. 


Green Peas 




Mange 


3. 


Macaroni and Cheese 


3. 


Breaded Tomatoes 


2. 


Brown Betty 


4. 


Broiled Hamburg 


4. 


Squash 


3. 


Raisin Pie 


5. 


Baked Fish 


S. 


Red Beets 


4. 


Crackers and Cheese 


6. 


Broiled Steak 


6. 


Sweet Corn 


5. 


Fruit Gelatine 


7. 


Kidney-Bean Loaf 


7. 


Buttered Carrots 


6. 


Cake and Fruit 


8. 


Roast Pork 


8. 


Mashed Turnips 


7. 


Apricot Fluff 


9. 


Lamb Chops 


9. 


Scalloped Eggplant 


8. 


Tapioca Pudding 


10. 


Roast Chicken 


10. 


Buttered Cauliflower 


9. 


Steamed Pudding 


11. 


Baked Beans 


11. 


Hot Slaw 


10. 


Short Cake 


12. 


Meat Loaf 


12. 


Scalloped Tomatoes 


11. 


Prunes in Jelly 


13. 


Liver and Bacon 


13. 


Carrots and Peas 


12. 


Rice Pudding 


14. 


Roast Mutton 


14. 


Buttered Kohlrabi 


13. 


Custard Pie 


IS. 


Broiled Ham 


IS. 


Baked Onions 


14. 


Baked Apples 


16. 


Scalloped Salmon 


16. 


Sauted Eggplant 


IS. 


Peach Cobbler 


17. 


Roast Lamb 


17. 


Stuffed Peppers 


16. 


Chocolate Bread Pud- 


18. 


Lima-Bean Loaf 


18. 


Creamed Turnips 




ding 


19. 


Veal Tongue 


19. 


Browned Parsnips 


17. 


Pineapple Tapioca 


20 


Fried Oysters 


20. 


Sauted Tomatoes 


18. 


Ice Cream 






21. 


Escalloped Cabbage 


19. 


Jelly Tarts 






22. 


Creamed Onions 


20. 


Gingerbread and 






23. 


String Beans 




Whipped Cream 






24. 


Asparagus 


21. 


Indian Pudding, with 






2S. 


Succotash 


22. 
23. 
24. 


Custard Sauce 
Floating Island 
Prune Fluff 
Nuts and Raisins 



39 



40 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

course, to include all these dishes when a simpler meal is desired, but 
a number of suggestions are given in each group so that there may be 
a good selection. In order to use this table to advantage and to 
secure a large variety of menus, diflferent combinations of the various 
foods may be made. Then, too, the combinations given may be 
rotated so that frequent repetition of the same combination will be 
avoided. This table therefore has the advantage over meals planned 
for 14 or even 21 days, for these must be repeated once in 2 or 
3 weeks. 

68. In the application of Table VII, use should be made of the 
dishes numbered 1 in the various groups for the first day's menu. 
This dinner, then, will consist of tomato bouillon, roast beef, boiled 
potatoes with butter and parsley, spinach, apple-and-celery salad, and 
chocolate blanc mange. In this way, the menus should be made by 
going through the entire list and combining the dishes whose numbers 
correspond. Upon coming to the last of the soups, which is No. 16, 
and attempting to make up a menu, it will be discovered that there 
are only fifteen varieties of potato dishes. In order to obtain a 
menu, the rotation must be begun again, and so No. 1 of the potato 
dishes is used. This menu would therefore consist of corn chowder, 
scalloped salmon, boiled potatoes with butter and parsley, sauted 
eggplant, peach-and-cream-cheese salad, and chocolate bread 
pudding. 

In planning menus with the aid of this table, the housewife may 
not be able to use a certain dish that is suggested because it is out of 
season, cannot be procured, or resembles too closely some of the 
other dishes in the menu. In such an event, she should select another 
dish to take the place of the one that spoils the combination. Like- 
wise, she should not hesitate to make any change that will result in 
producing properly balanced meals. 



LUNCHEON MENUS 

69. To aid the housewife in the preparation of suitable 
luncheons, a large number of luncheon menus are here given. These 
menus will serve to give variety in the preparation of meals if they 
are rotated properly and changes are made every once in a while in 
making up combinations of food for this important and interesting 
meal. 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



43. 



No. 1 

Rice Croquettes 

Bread and Butter Fruit Salad 

Gingerbread and Cream Cheese 



Egg Salad 

Baked Bananas 



No. 2 
Cream-of-Corn Soup 



Whole- Wheat Muffins 
Tea 



Sliced Tomatoes 



No. 3 
Creamed Chicken on Toast 

Fruit Cake 



Rolls 



Apple-and-Celery Salad 



No. 4 
Scalloped Oysters 

Tea 



Wafers 



No.S 

Cream-of-Tomato Soup 

Hashed-Brown Potatoes Graham Bread and Butter Baked Apples 

Tea 





No. 6 




Cabbage Salad 
Sugar Cookies 


Macaroni and Cheese 
No. 7 


Wafers 
Coffee 


Rice with Raisins 


Eggs a la Goldenrod 
Tea 

No. 8 


Bread and Jam 


Toast 
Vanilla Wafers 


Omelet 
No. 9 


Prune Whip 
Tea 


Chicken Salad 


Consommg 


Rolls 



Warm Gingerbread and Whipped Cream 



42 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 





No. 10 






Creamed Dried Beef on 
Lettuce Salad 

Tea 


Toast 


Stewed Fruit 




No. 11 






Brown Bread and Butter 
Cheese Straws 


Scalloped Com 
No. 12 




Fruit Salad 
Coffee 


Potato Salad 
Cookies 


Cold Ham 


Graham Bread and Butter 
Tea 




No. 13 






Wafers 
Pineapple 

Baked Tomato on Toast 


Oyster Stew 

Na 14 

Cheese Souffle 

Tea 

No. IS 




Celery 
Sponge Cake 

Rice Pudding 


Cranberry Jelly 


Meat Fie 
Coffee 




Table Raisins 



BRBAKFAST MBNUS 

70. Winter Breakfast Menus. — To assist the housewife in 
planning properly balanced breakfast menus for winter, a number 
of suggestions are here given. These necessarily differ from break- 
fast menus for other seasons because of the difference in the food 
that can be obtained. They are usually of a more hearty nature and 
contain more heat-producing foods. 

No. 1 

Rolled Oats with Cream 
Soft-Cooked Eggs 

Coffee 
No. 2 

Cream of Wheat with Cream 
Broiled Bacon 

Coffee 



Oranges 



Toast and Butter 



Stewed Prunes 



MufKns and Butter 



§2« 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



43 



No. 3 




Baked Apples 
jriddle Cakes with Maple Sirup 

Coffee 


Sausage Patties 


No. 4 




Rolls and Butter 

Grapefruit 
Coffee 


Corn Flakes with Hot Milk 


No. 5 




Vitos with Dates 
French Toast and Butter 

Hot Chocolate 


Jelly 


No. 6 




Apple Sauce 
Fried Cornmeal Mush with Sirup 

Coffee 


Broiled Bacon 


No. 7 
Orange Juice 

Omelet 
Cornmeal Muffins and Butter 


Steamed Rice 
Coffee 


No. 8 




California Grapes 
Hominy Grits 

Coffee 


Waffles and Sirup 


No. 9 




Sliced Bananas 
Pearl Barley 
Marmalade Toast 


Codfish Balls 
Coffee 



No. 10 

Popovers Filled with Warm Apple Sauce 

White Cornmeal Mush Baked Eggs in Cream 

Toast Coffee 

71. Summer Breakfast Menus. — During the summer sea- 
son, fresh fruits of various kinds can be obtained, and these are 
generally used as the first course for breakfast. As the menus here 
given show, it is well to vary the fruit course as much as possible, so 
that there will be no danger of tiring the persons to be seirved. An 



M 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



uncooked breakfast food is preferable to a cooked one for summer 
and so several varieties of these are here suggested. 

No. 1 

Strawberries and Cream 

Scrambled Eggs Toast 

Coffee 

No. 2 

Raspberries Puffed Rice 

Baking-Powder Biscuits and Honey 

Coffee 





No. 3 






Corn Flakes 


Blackberries 
Coffee 
No. 4 


Creamed 


Toast 


Grape Nuts and Cream 
Toast 


Blueberries 

Jelly 

No. 5 




Omelet 
Coffee 


Puffed Wheat 
Toast 


Sliced Peaches 


Clipped Eggs 

Coffee 




No. 6 






Krumbles with Cream 


Cantaloupe 
Coffee 


French Toast and Sirup 



MENUS FOR SPECIAL. OCCASIONS 

72. Special occasions, such as New Year's, Easter, Fourth of 
July, Thanksgiving, Christmas, etc., are usually celebrated with a 
dinner that is somewhat out of the ordinary. Then, too, on such 
days as St. Valentine's, St. Patrick's, Hallowe'en, etc., it is often 
desired to invite friends in for a social time of some kind, when 
dainty, appetizing refreshments make up a part of the entertainment. 
To assist the housewife in planning menus for occasions of this 
kind, a number of suggestions are here given. Suitable decorations 
are also mentioned in each instance, for much of the attraction of a 
special dinner or luncheon depends on the form of decoration used. 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



45 



It should not be thought that elaborate, costly decorations are neces- 
sary, for often the most effective results can be achieved with some 
very simple decoration. Of course, the decorations should be suit- 
able for the occasion to be celebrated. Favors of various kinds are 
generally on sale in confectioners' and stationers' shops, so that, if 
desired, favors may be purchased. However, the ingenious house- 
wife can, with very little trouble, make favors that will be just as 
attractive as those she can buy and that will be much less expensive. 
She may copy some she sees in the shops or work out any original 
ideas she may have on the most suitable decorations for the 
occasion. 

NEW YEAR'S DINNERS 

No. 1 
Decoration — Ground Pine 

Creara-of-Tomato Soup 
Mustard Pickles 
Baked Ham 
Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Orange-and-Pineapple Salad 
Maple Parfait 
Salted Nuts 

No. 2 
Decoration — Potted Jerusalem Cherries 

Crab-Flake Cocktail 

Asparagus Broth 

Radishes Wafers 

Roast Goose Hot Baked Apples 

Creamed Turnips Mashed Potatoes 

Peas-and-Celery Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream, Apricot Sauce Table Raisins 

Coffee 



Croutons 
Hot Slaw 
String Beans 

Macaroons 
Coffee 



EASTER DINNERS 

No. 1 
Decoration — Daffodils 

Clear Tomato Soup 

Mixed Pickles Croutons 

Creamed Mushrooms in Timbale Cases 

Roast Spring Chicken Mint Sauce 

Potato Puff Creamed Peas and Carrots 

Grapefruit-and-Celery Salad 

Milk Sherbet Sponge Cake 

Coffee 



Wafers 



46 THE PLANNING OF MEALS §26 

No. 2 
Decorations — Chinese Lilies and Iris 

Fruit Cocktail 
Bouillon with Whipped Cream and Piraiento 
Celery- 
Fricassee of Chicken 
Riced Potatoes Scalloped Com 

Tomato Salad 
Bavarian Cream Salted Nuts 

Coffee 

st. valentine parties 

Dinner Menu 

Decorations — Red Hearts and Ribbons, Red Candle Shades 

Heart-Shaped Canapes Olives 

Clam Bouillon 

Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms in Pattie Shells 

Potatoes au Gratin 

Grapefruit-and-California-Grape Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream Heart-Shaped Cakes 

Candies 

Luncheon Menu 
Decorations — Red Roses, Heart-Shaped Favors, Cupids 

Tuna-Fish Salad 

Heart-Shaped Brown Bread and Marmalade Sandwiches Nut Sandwiches 

Ice Cream in Heart-Shaped Cases Small Decorated Cakes 

Candies Nuts 

st. patrick's day parties 

Dinner Menu 
Decorations — Shamrocks and Green Ribbon 

Cream-of-Pea Soup 

Olives Wafers 

Roast Pork Loin Potatoes with Parsley Sauce 

Tomatoes au Gratin 

Green-Peppers-and-Cheese Salad 

Lemon Ice Cakes 

Coffee Green Mints 

Luncheon Menu 
Decorations — White Narcissus, Green Carnations, Shamrocks 

Chicken Salad 

Cheese-and-Green-Pepper Sandwiches 

Pistachio Ice Cream Sponge Cake 

Mint Punch 



§ 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 47 

FOXJRTH-OP-JCIiY LUNCHEONS 

No. 1 

Decorations— Sweet Peas, Small Flags 

Iced Tomato Bouillon Wafers 

Cold Sliced Ham Swiss Cheese 

Creamed Potatoes and Peas 

Strawberry-and-Pineapple Salad 

Coconut Cream Pie Iced Tea 

No. 2 
Decorations — Cornflowers and Daisies 

Iced Watermelon with Mint 

Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms on Toast 

Potato Croquettes Corn on the Cob 

Sliced Cucumbers 

Vanilla Ice Cream Chocolate Sauce 

Punch 

HALLOWE'EN LUNCHEONS 

No. 1 

Decorations — Pumpkin Jack o' Lantern, 

Black-Paper Cats and Witches 

Tongue Sandwiches 

Swiss-Cheese Sandwiches 

Cider Doughnuts 

Pumpkin Pie 

Molasses Taffy 

No. 2 
Decorations — Tiny Paper Jack o' Lanterns 

Pink Bunny 
Brown-Bre.ad-and-Marmalade Sandwiches 



Nut Cookies 




Gingerbread 


Candies 


THANKSGIVING DINNERS 

No. 1 

Decorations — Basket of Fruit 

Oyster Cocktail 

Consomme with Peas 


Cider 


Celery 




Wafers 


Roast Turkey 


Candied 
Asparagus with Drawn-Butter Sauce 
Cranberry Frappe 


Sweet Potatoes 


Head Lettuce 


Thousand-Island Dressing 




Pumpkin Pie 




Fruit 




Coffee 


W I-C S-21 







48 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



No. 2 
Decorations — Baby Chrysanthemums 



Olives 
Roast Chicken 
Mashed Potatoes 

Stuffed Dates 



Grapefruit Cocktail 
Celery Soup 



Cottage-Cheese Balls 
Mince Pie 



Bread Sticks 
Cranbeiry Jelly 
Baked Onions 
Coffee 



CHRISTSIAS DINNBRS 

No. 1 
Decorations — Small Christmas Tree 



Small Pickles 
Chicken Pie 
Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Christmas Pudding 
Bonbons 



Oyster Broth 
Oyster Crackers 



Fruit Salad 



Olives 
Pickled Peaches 
Creamed Cauliflower 

Sauce 
Salted Nuts 



Coffee 



No. 2 
Decorations — Poinsettias and Holly 

Grapefruit with Grape Juice 
Cream Chicken Bouillon Stuffed Celery 

Wafers 

Roast Duck Currant Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Baked Squash 

Spiced Punch 

Cabbage-and-Green-Pepper Salad 

Plum Pudding Sauce 

Mints Almonds 

Coffee 



WEDDING BREjVKFASTS 

No. 1 

Decorations — Seasonal Flowers 

Iced Fruit 

Creamed Chicken on Toast 

Stuffed Potato Asparagus with Butter Sauce 

Rolls Marmalade Butter 

Ice Cake 

Coffee 



§ § 26 THE PLANNING OF MEALS 49 

No. 2 

Decorations — Seasonal Flowers 

Orange and Grapefruit Juice 

Broiled Sweetbreads Creamed Potatoes 

Lima-Bean Souffle 

Hot Biscuits Honey Butter 

Pineapple Fritters 

Milk Sherbet Cake 

Coffee 

WEDDING I,TJNCHEONS 

No. 1 

Decoblations — Seasonal Flowers 

Oyster Cocktail 

Chicken Soup 

Radishes Olives 

Broiled Squab Browned Potatoes 

Fresh String Beans Fruit Salad 

French Ice Cream Cake 

Candies Coffee 

No. 2 

Decorations — Seasonal Flowers 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

Bouillon 

Celery Radishes 

Chicken Croquettes 

Potato Puff Stuffed Tomatoes 

Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 

Hearts of Lettuce Mayonnaise 

Chocolate Nut Ice Cream 

Cake Mints 

Coffee 

WEDDING DINNERS 

No. 1 

Decorations — Seasonal Flowers 

Fresh Pineapple 

Cream-of-Celery Soup 

Ripe Olives Radishes 

Broiled Chicken 

Candied Sweet Potatoes Green Peas in Cream 

Corn Fritters 

Whole-Wheat Rolls Butter 

Grapefruit Salad 

Individual Molds of Ice Cream 

Cake Mints 

Coffee 



50 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



Celery- 
Mashed Potatoes 
Rolls 

Vanilla Ice Cream 
Cake 



No. 2 

Decorations — Seasonal Flowers 

Crabflake Cocktail 

Consomme Julienne 

Olives 
Roast Young Duck 
Green Lima Beans 

Waldorf Salad 



Radishes 

Creamed Cauliflower 
Butter 

Chocolate Sauce 
Candies 



Coffee 



birthday parties for children 

Birthday Dinner 

Decorations — Kewpies with Large Bows of Ribbon 
To be Used as Favors 

Fruit Cocktail in Orange Basket 

Creamed Sweetbreads on Toast 

Mashed Potatoes Asparagus Souffle 

Peach-and-Cream-Cheese Salad 

Vanilla Ice Cream with Maple Sirup 

Birthday Cakes 

Candies Nuts 



Birthday Luncheon 

Decorations — Pink Sweet Peas, Maiden-Hair Fern, 
Pink Favors Filled with Candy 



Fruit Salad 
Punch 

Birthday Cake 



Wafers 
Chocolate Ice Cream with Marshmallow 
Stuffed Dates 



birthday parties for adults 

Birthday Dinner 
Decorations — Pink Roses, Pink Candle Shades 

Fruit Cocktail 

Cream-of-Pea Soup 

Radishes Olives Wafers 

Chicken Croquettes 

Stuffed Potatoes Asparagus Tips 

Pineapple-and-Cream-Cheese Salad 

Meringue Glace Birthday Cake 

Coffee 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



51 



Birthday Luncheon 

Decorations — Seasonal Flowers, Candle Shades, and 

Favors to Match 

Lobster Cocktail 



Clear Soup 

Chicken a la King 

Chocolate Parfait 
Candies 



Stuffed Olives' 
Stuffed-Tomato Salad 

Coffee 

AFTERNOON TEAS 

No. 1 



Wafers 

Julienne Potatoes 

Birthday Cake 
Nuts 



Ribbon Sandwiches 
Salted Nuts 

Apricot Sandwiches 

Candied Orange Peel 



Date-and-Nut Sandwiches 



Toasted Pound Cake 



Tea 



No. 2 

Cream-Cheese-and-Peanut Sandwiches 
Marguerites 



Tea 



Chocolate ficlairs 



Bisque Ice Cream 



SUPPER PARTIES 

No. 1 

Welsh Rarebit 

Tomato Sandwiches 

No. 2 
Club Sandwiches 

Coffee 



Coffee 



Cakes 



TABLE SERVICE 

73. Essentials of Good. Table Service. — Too much cannot 
be said of the importance of attractive table service. The simplest 
kind of meal served attractively never fails to please, while the most 
elaborate meal served in an uninviting way will not appeal to the 
appetite. Therefore, a housewife should try never to neglect the 
little points that count so much in making her meals pleasing and 
inviting. It is not at all necessary that she have expensive dishes and 
linen, nor, in fact, anything out of the ordinary, in order to serve 



52 THE PLANNING OF MEALS §26 

meals in a dainty, attractive way. Some points, however, are really 
essential and should receive consideration. 

74. In the first place, there should be absolute cleanliness in 
everything used. To make this possible, the dishes should be prop- 
erly washed and dried. The glasses should be polished so that they 
are not cloudy nor covered with lint. The silver should be kept 
polished brightly. The linen, no matter what kind, should be nicely 
laundered. Attention given to these matters forms the basis of good 
table service. 

Close in hand with these points comes a well-arranged and neatly 
set table. To this may be added some attractive touches in the way 




Fig. 9 

of flowers or other simple decoration. These need cost little or 
nothing, especially in the spring and summer seasons, for then the 
fields and woods are filled with flowers and foliage that make most 
artistic table decorations. Often, too, one's own garden offers a 
nice selection of flowers that may be used for table decoration if a 
little time and thought are given to their arrangement. In the 
winter, a small fern or some other growing plant will answer. 

75. Breakfast, Lunclieoii, and Dinner Service. — To give 

an idea of proper table service for the three meals, breakfast, 
luncheon, and dinner. Figs. 9, 10, and 11 are offered. Attention 



§26 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



53 



should be given to the details of each of these, for they show how to 
arrange meals that are intended to be served tastily and invitingly. 

76. In Fig. 9 is shown a breakfast cover for one. By a cover is 
meant the silver and dishes placed on the table for one person. In 
a simple meal, this might consist of a knife, a fork, spoons, a 
plate, a glass, a cup and saucer, and a bread-and-butter plate. Here 
the cover has been arranged on a breakfast tray for service at a 
bedside. This meal is not in the least unusual, but it is very dainty 
and pleasing. It consists of strawberries with the stems left on so 




Fig. 10 

that they may be dipped into sugar and eaten, a cereal, a roll with 
butter, a hot dish of some kind, such as eggs, and a hot beverage. 

77. A luncheon table with covers for six is shown in Fig. 10. 
The first course consists of a fruit cocktail, which is placed on the 
table before the persons to be served are seated. The silver required 
up to the dessert course is also laid beforehand. Just before the 
dessert is served, the entire table should be cleared and the silver 
necessary for this course laid at each place. 



54 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



§26 



A point to be remembered in the placing of silver is that the vari- 
ous pieces should always be placed on the table in the order in 
which they are to be used. Here the first spoon is for the cocktail, 
which is already on the table, while the second spoon is for the soup, 
the next course. The knife, which is the third piece of silver, with 
the two forks on the opposite side will be required for the dinner 
course, while the third fork is a fork for the salad course. 

As will be noted, doilies have been used in place of a table cloth 
for this luncheon. These, which may be as simple or as elaborate 
as desired, save laundering and, if they are inexpensive, they are an 




Fig. n 



economy as well as a convenience. Since they also make a luncheon 
table very attractive, they are strongly recommended for meals of 
this kind. The luncheon napkin, which is smaller than that used for 
dinner service, should always be placed where it is shown here, that 
is, at the left of the forks. If only one beverage is to be served, as is 
usually the case, the glass is placed at the tip of the knife. 

78. An example of a correctly set dinner table is shown in 
Fig. 11. A table cloth, as will be noted, is used, for a cloth is always 
preferable to doilies for dinner. At this meal, the first course is soup. 
This, with anything that is to be eaten with the soup, such as the 
wafers used here, or a relish, should be placed before the guests are 
seated. The bread-and-butter plate, which is placed just at the top 
of the fork, should also be on the table. Between each two persons, 
it is well to have a set of salt-and-pepper shakers. 



THE PLANNING OF MEALS 



EXAMINATION QUESTIONS 

(1) What knowledge is necessary for the planning of economical and well- 
balanced meals? 

(2) Discuss a systematic plan for the purchasing of foods. 

(3) Compare the advantages of buying foods at a cash store and a credit 
store. 

(4) Mention the advantages of keeping an account of household 
expenditures. 

(5) Tell how economy in the purchase of foods may be practiced. 

(6) Discuss the training of a child's appetite. 

(7) Why is a variety of food necessary in the diet ? 

(8) Name the factors that influence the amount and proportion of food 
substances required for an adult. 

(9) (a) Explain the meaning of calorie as applied to food. (6) What is 
the average number of calories required by the adult? 

(10) With the aid of Table V, find out how many pounds you are under 
weight or over weight. Then tell how you would proceed to acquire your 
correct weight. 

(11) Make out menus for breakfast, dinner, and supper for 1 day for a 
child 12 months old. 

(12) Plan a dinner menu that contains foods suitable for both adults and 
a child 4 years old, and from it select the foods you would give the child. 

(13) What does a balanced diet include? 

(14) What can be done to balance the cost of foods used in a meal? 

(15) Give several points of importance in selecting the dishes for a meal. 

(16) Make out menus for the seventeenth and eighteenth days from 
Table VII. 

(17) Plan an original menu and decorations for a dinner you can serve for 
a special occasion. 

§26 



2 THE PLANNING OF MEALS § 26 

(18) What are the advantages of a nicely arranged table? 

(19) Give a few general rules for the correct serving of food and setting 
of tables. 

(20) Why is the following menu undesirable and what changes would you 
suggest to make it more nearly correct? 

Cream Soup 

Potatoes Roast Pork 

Greens 

Bread and Butter 

Pudding Hard Sauce 



INDE.X 



Note. — In this volume, each Section is complete in itself and has a number, which 
together with the section mark (§), is printed at the top of every page of the Section. 
To find a reference, glance along the inside edges of the headlines until you find the 
desired Section number and then along the outside edges until you find the desired 
page. Thus, to find the reference, ^'Cranberry sauce, §21, pl6," turn to the Sectior. 
marked §21 and then to page 16 of that Section. 



Absinthe, §25, p6 

Accounts, Equipment for keeping house- 
hold, §26, p5 

Keeping of household, §26 p4 

Methods of keeping household, §26, p6 
Acids in confections, Use of, §24, p9 

in fruit, §21, p6 
Adulteration of coffee, §2S, pll 

of flavorings, §24, p7 
Adults, Birthday parties for, §26, p50 
Advertised goods, Nationally, §26, pl3 
After-dinner coffee, §25, pl6 
Afternoon tea, §25, p21 

teas, §26, p51 
Age on children's diet. Effect of, §26, p30 

on diet. Effect of, §26, p28 
Alcoholic beverages, §25, rp2, 4 

beverages. Harmful effects of, §25, p4 

beverages, Kinds of, §25, pS 
Alligator pear, or avocado, §21, p44 
Apple butter, §23, p34 

sauce, §21, p21 
Apples, §21, p21; §22, p^ 

apricots, and peaches. Dried, §21, p54 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Drying of, §22, pSS 

Maple, §21, p23 

Porcupine, §21, p22 

Steamed, §21, p23 

Stewed quinces and, §21, p29 
Apportionment of income, §26, pl3 
Apricot souffle, §21, p23 
Apricots, §21, p23; §22, p43 

Drying of, §22, p55 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 

peaches, and apples. Dried, §21, p54 
Artificial flavorings, §24, p7 
Asparagus, Canning of, §22, p31 
Automatic seal tops, §22, pll 
Avocado, or alligator pear, §21, p44 



Baked apples, §21, p22 

bananas, §21, p40 

peaches, §21, p28 

pears, §21, p28 
Balancing the diet, §26, p22 
Banana fritters, §21, p41 
Bananas, §21, p39 

Baked, §21, p40 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 
Beans, Canning of lima and other shelled, 
§22, p34 

Canning of string, §22, p32 

Drying of string, §22, p54 

Pickled, §23, p38 

Roasting the coffee, §25, p9 
Beer, §25, p5 
Beet relish, §23, p42 

sugar, §24, p4 
Beets, Canning of, §22, p33 

Pickled, §23, p38 
Berries, Miscellaneous, §21, pl9 

Nature and care of, §21, pl2 
Berry, or fruit, sugar, §24, p'' 
Beverage, Definition of, §25, pi 
Beverages, Alcoholic, §25, pp2, 4 

Cereal, §25, p31 

Fruit, §25, p32 

Harmful effects of alcoholic, §25, p4 

in the diet, §25, pi 

Ingredients for fruit, §25, p32 

Instantaneous cereal, §25, pS2 

Kinds of alcoholic, §25, pS 

Nature and classes of, §25, pi 

Nature of stimulating, §25, p6 

Non-stimulating, §25, pp2, 31 

Nourishing, §25, p38 

Preparation of fruit, §25, p34 

Stimulating, §25, pp2, 6 

Table showing stimulant and tannic acid 
in stimulating, §25, p7 



INDEX 



Beverages to meals. Relation of, §25, p3 

Water in, §25, p2 
Birthday-party menus, §26, p50 
Bitter chocolate, §25, p26 
Black tea, §25, pl9 
Blackberries, §21, pl3 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Blackberry jam, §23, p33 

sponge, §21, pl3 
Blanching and scalding foods to be canned, 

§22, pl6 
Blend coffee, §25, pU 
Blueberries, §21, pl4 
Blueberry pudding, §21, pl5 

pudding. Pressed, §21, pl4 
Bohea tea, §25, pl9 
Boiled coffee, §25, pl4 

Boiling fruit juice and sugar in jelly 
making, §23, pl3 

the confection mixture, §24, pl7 
Bonbon cream, Coating candies with, §24, 

p22 
Bonbons, §24, p42 
Brandy, §25, p5 
Breakfast cocoa, §25, p27 

luncheon and dinner service, §26, p52 

menus, §26, p42 

menus, Summer, §26, p43 

menus. Wedding-, §26, p48 

menus. Winter, §26, p42 
Brown-sugar fudge, §24, p36 
Brussels sprouts, Canning of, §22, p31 
Budget, Household, §26, pl3 
Butter, Apple, §23, p34 

Cocoa, §25, p26 

milk, and cream in confections, §24, pl2 

Peach, §23, p34 

Pear, §23, p35 

Plum, §23, p35 

scotch, §24, p28 

scotch, Marshmallows coated with, §24, 
p29 

taffy, §24, p27 
Butters, Fruit, §23, p33 
Buying, Economical, §26, pl3 



Cabbage, Canning of, §22, p31 
Cafe au lait. Iced, §25, pl6 

noir, §25, pl8 
Caffeine, §25, p7 
Caffeol, §25, p9 
California oranges, §21, p36 
Calories, Quantity of foods in, §26, p23 
Candied and dried fruits in confections, 
§24, plO 

peel, §24, pS2 
Candies, Cream, §24, p34 

Finishing, §24, p21 

Marking and cutting, §24, p22 



Candies, Nature of cream, §24, p34 

with bonbon cream. Coating, §24, p22 

with chocolate. Coating, §24, p23 

Wrapping, §24, p25 
Candy, Serving, §24, pS3 

Table showing tests for, §24, pl9 

Testing, §24, pl8 
Cane sugar, §21, p5; §24, p4 
Canned food, Flavor of, §22, p49 

food. General appearance of, §22, p49 

food, Propoirtion of food to liquid, §22, p49 

food. Score card for, §22, p49 

food. Texture of, §22, p50 

foods from spoiling. Preventing, §22, p6 

foods. Method of sealing, §22, p49 

foods, Scoring, §22, p49 

foods. Spoiling of, §22, p6 

Preparation of food to be, §22, pl6 
Canning and drying, §22, pi 

Cold-pack method of, §22, pl3 

Commercial, §22, p2 

Definition of, §22, p5 

Equipment for, §22, p7 

fruit juices for jelly, §23, p20 

fruits. Directions for, §22, p37 

fruits. Table of sirups for, §22, p38 

greens, §22, p30 

Measuring devices for, §22, p9 

method. Fractional-sterilization, §22, p23 

method, Oven, §22, p26 

methods, §22, pl3 

methods for fruits, §22, p39 

methods. Steam-pressure, §22, p23 

of asparagus, §22, p31 

of beets, §22, p33 

of Brussels sprouts, §22, p31 

of cabbage, §22, p31 

of carrots, §22, p33 

of cauliflower, §22, p31 

of eggplant, §22, p32 

of fish, §22, p47 

of fruits, §22, p27 

of green com, §22, p34 

of green peppers, §22, p32 

of lima and other shelled beans, §22, p34 

of meat, §22, p47 

of okra, §22, p32 

of parsnips, §22, p33 

of peas, §22, p35 

of pumpkin, §22, p3S 

of root and tuber vegetables, §22, p33 

of squash, §22, p35 

of string beans, §22, p32 

of succotash, §22, p35 

of summer squash, §22, p32 

of tomatoes, §22, p36 

of tomatoes and corn, §22, p36 

of tomatoes for soup, §22, p36 

of turnips, §22, p33 

of vegetables, §22, p27 



INDEX 



Canning, Open-kettle method of, §22, pl3 

Oven method of, §22, pl3 

Preparation of fruits and vegetables for, 
§22, p27 

preservatives, §22, p7 

Principles of, §22, p5 

Sealing the jars when, §22, p20 

Selection of food for, §22, p5 

Sirups for, §22, p37 

Steam-pressure method of, §22, pl3 

Tin cans for, §22, pl2 

Utensils for, §22, p8 

Utensils required for open-kettle method 
of, §22, pl3 

vegetables, Directions for, §22, p29 

Vessels for, §22, p8 

with a pressure cooker, §22, p24 

with the water-seal outfit, §22, p24 

with tin cans, §22, p25 
Cans for canning. Tin, §22, pl2 
Cantaloupes and muskmelons, §21, p46 

Serving, §21, p46 
Caramels, §24, p32 

Chocolate, §24, p33 

Nature of, §24, p32 

Plain, §24, p32 
Caravan tea, §25, p20 
Carbohydrate in confections, §24, p3 

in fruit, §21, pS 
Carbonated water, §25, p3 
Card-file system for menu making, §26, p37 
Carrot conserve, §23, p29 
Carrots, Canning of, §22, p33 
Casaba melons, §21, p47 
Cash-and-carry plan of marketing, §25, p4 
Catsup, Grape, §23, p44 

Tomato, §23, p44 
Cauliflower, Canning of, §22, p31 

Pickled, §23, p39 
Cellulose in fruit, §21, pS 
Center cream, §24, p46 
Cereal beverages, §25, p31 

beverages, Instantaneous, §25, p32 

coffees, §25, p31 
Chain stores, §26, pl3 
Chemical or mineral colorings, §24, p8 
Cherries, §21, p24 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Sour, §22, p43 
Cherry-and-pineapple conserve, §23, p28 

fritters, §21, p25 

preserve, §23, p24 
Chewing taffy, §24, p28 
Children and infants, Diet for, §26, p29 
Children's birthday parties. Menus for, 
§26, p50 

diet. Effect of age on, §25, p30 

diet. Effect of weight on, §26, p29 
Chilli sauce, §23, p43 
China congou tea, §25, pl9 



Chocolate and cocoa, §25, p25 

and cocoa in confections, §24, plO 

and cocoa. Left-over, §25, p29 

and cocoa. Preparation of, §25, p26 

and cocoa. Production of, §25, p25 

and cocoa. Selection of, §25, p26 

and cocoa, Serving, §25, p30 

and cocoa, Source of, §25, p25 

Bitter, §25, p26 

caramels, §24, p33 

Coating candies with, §24, p23 

Egg, §25, p39 

Hot, §25, p29 

malted milk, §25, p39 

or cocoa. Iced, §25, p29 

sirup, §25, p38 

Sweet, §25, p27 

Table showing tannic acid and stimulant 
in, §25, p7 
Chow chow, §23, p42 
Christmas dinners, §26, p48 
Citric acid, §21, p7 
Citrus fruits, §21, p31 
Classification of fruits, §22, p39 

of tea, §25, pl9 

of vegetables, §22, p29 
Climate on diet. Effect of, §26, p27 
Clingstone peaches, §22, p43 
Closing and storing jelly, §23, plS 
Coarse granulated sugar, §24, p4 

powdered sugar, §24, p4 
Coating candies with bonbon cream, §24, p22 

candies with chocolate, §24, p23 
Cocktail, Fruit, §21, p49 

Grapefruit, §21, p48 

Summef, §21, p49 
Cocoa and chocolate, §25, p25 

and chocolate in confections, §24, plO 

and chocolate. Left-over, §25, p29 

and chocolate. Preparation of, §25, p26 

and chocolate. Production of, §25, p2S 

and chocolate. Selection of, §25, p26 

and chocolate. Serving, §25, p30 

and chocolate. Source of, §25, p25 

Breakfast, §25, p27 

butter, §25, p26 

Commercial, §25, p26 

Creamy, §25, p28 

Milling of, §25, p28 

nibs, §25, p26 

Plain, §25, p27 

or chocolate. Iced, %25, p29 

Rich, §25, p28 

Table showing tannic acid and stimulant 
in, §25, p7 

Theobroma, §25, p2S 
Coconut in confections, §24, p9 
Coffee, Adulteration of, §25, pll 

After-dinner, §25, pl6 

beans, Grinding, §25, p9 



INDEX 



Coffee beans, Roasting, §25, p9 
biggin, §25, pl3 
Blend, §25, pli 
Boiled, §25, pl4 
Filtered, §25, pl5 

History and production of, §25, p8 
Iced, §25, pl5 
Instantaneous, §25, p32 
Java, §22, pH 
Left-over, §25, pl6 
Mocha, §25, pll 
Percolated, §25, pl5 
percolators, §25, pl3 
pot, §25, pl2 
Preparation of, §25, pll 
Rio, §25, pll 
Rye, §25, p31 
seeds. Obtaining, §25, p9 
Selection of, §25, pll 
Serving, §25, pl7 
Table showing stimulant and tannic acid 

in, §25, p7 
Vienna, §25, pl6 

Coffees, Cereal, §25, p31 

Colander and wire strainer for canning, 
§22, p9 

Cold-dipping, §22, ppl5, 17 
-pack method of canning, §22, pl4 
-pack method, Procedure in one-period, 

§22, pl6 
-pack method, Utensils for, §22, plS 

Color of jelly, §23, pl7 

Colorings for confections, §24, p8 
Mineral, or chemical, §24, p8 
Vegetable, §24, p8 

Combination drying methods, §S2, p54 

Combining sugar and liquid in confection 
making, §24, pl7 

Commercial canning, §22, p2 
cocoa, §25, p26 

Composition and food value of bananas, 
§21, p7 
and food value of black raspberries, §21, 

p7 
and food value of blackberries, §21, p7 
and food value of cherries, §21, p7 
and food value of cranberries, §21, p7 
and food value of currants, §21, p7 
and food value of dates, §21, p7 
and food value of dried apples, §21, p7 
and food value of dried apricots, §21, p7 
and food value of dried figs, §21, p7 
and food value of dried prunes, §21, p7 
and food value of fresh apples, §21, p7 
and food value of fresh apricots, §21, p7 
and food value of fresh figs, §21, p7 
and food value of fresh prunes, §21, p7 
and food value of fruits, §21, p7 
and food value of grapefruit, §21, p7 
and food value, of grapes, §21, p7 



Composition and food value of huckle- 
berries, §21, p7 
and food value of lemons, §21, p7 
and food value of muskmelon, §21, p7 
and food value of nectarines, §21, p7 
and food value of oranges, §21, p7 
and food value of peaches, §21, p7 
and food value of pears, §21, p7 
and food value of persimmons, §21, p7 
and food value of pineapple, §21, p7 
and food value of plums, §21, p7 
and food value of pomegranates, §21, p7 
and food value of raisins, §21, p7 
and food value of red raspberries, §21, 

p7 
and food value of rhubarb, §21, p7 
and food value of strawberries, §21, p7 
and food value of watermelon, §21, p7 
of confections, §24, p3 
of food, §26. p20 
of fruits, §21, pp2, 4 

Confection making, §24, p4 
making, Combining sugar and liquid in, 

§24, pl7 
making. Effect of weather on, §24, pl7 
making, Equipment for, §24, pl3 
making. Procedure in, §24, pl7 
mixture, Boiling, §24, pl7 
mixture, Pouring and cooling, §24, p20 

Confectioners', or XXXX, sugar, §24, p5 

Confections, §24, pi 
Candied and dried fruits in, §24, plO 
Carbohydrate in, §24, p3 
Chocolate and cocoa in, §24, plO 
Coconut in, §34, p9 
Composition of, §24, p3 
Cooking, §24, pl7 
Definition of, §24, pi 
Fat in, §24, p3 
Food materials in, §24, p9 
Ingredients used in, §24, p4 
Milk, cream, and butter in, §24, pl2 
Mineral salts in, §24, p3 
Miscellaneous, §24, p49 
Nature of, §24, pi 
Nuts in, §24, pll 
Popcorn in, §24, pl2 
Protein in, §24, p3 
Use of acids in, §24, p9 
Varieties and preparations of, §24, p26 

Congou tea, §25, pl9 
tea, China, §25, pl9 

Conservation of foods, ^22, p2 

Conserve, Carrot, §23 p29 
Cherry-and-pineapple, §23, p28 
Crab-apple-and-orange, §23, p27 
Definition of, §23, p26 
Pineapple-and-apricot, §23, p27 
Plum, §2.1. p28 
Red-raspberry-and-currant, §23, p29 



INDEX 



Conserve, Strawberry-and-pineapple, §23, 
p26 

Strawberry-and-rhubarb, §23, p27 
Containers for jelly, §23, p7 
Cooking and storing of dried foods, §22, p55 

confections, §24, pl7 

fruit in jellymaking, §23, p8 

on fruit. Effect of, §21, p9 
Cooling and pouring the confection mix- 
ture, §24, p20 
Cordials, §25, p6 
Corn, Canning of green, §22, p34 

Canning of tomatoes and, §22, p36 

Drying of, §22, p54 

sirup, §24, p6 
Correct diet, §26, pl8 

weights for certain heights. Table show- 
ing, §26, p26 
Cost of foods, §26, plO 
Covers, Jar tops, or, §22, pll 
Crab-apple-and-orange conserve, §23, p27 

-apple jelly, §23, pl8 

-apple relish, §23, p45 

apples, Pickled, §23, p40 
Cracker jack, §24, p53 
Cranberries, §21, pl5; §22, p43 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Cranberry jelly, §21, pl6 

sauce, §21, pl6 
Cream candies, §24, p34 

Center, §24, p46 

milk, and butter in confections, §24, pl2 

Opera, §24, p45 
Creamy cocoa, §25, p28 
Cucumber pickles. Sliced-, §23, p37 

pickles. Small, §23, p37 
Cucumbers in brine, §23, p38 
Currant jelly, §23, pl8 
Currants, §21, pl9; §22, p42 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 
Cutting and marking candies, §24, p22 



Dates, §21, p50 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 

Stuffed, §24, p49 
Density of sirup for canning, §22, p37 
Desserts, Fruit, §21, pi 
Devices for canning. Measuring, §22, p9 

for drying, §22, p51 
Diet, Balancing the, §26, p22 

Beverages in the, §25, pi 

Correct, §26, pl8 

Effect of age on, §26, p28 

Effect of age on children's, §26, p30 

Effect of climate on, §26, p27 

Effect of sex on, §26, p27 

Effect of weight on, §26, p23 

Effect of weight on children's, §26, p29 

for infants and children, §26, p29 



Diet, Fruit in the, §21, pi 

Pickles in the, §23, p2 

Preserves and jellies in the, §23, p2 
Digestibility of fruits, §21, p8 
Dinner, breakfast, and luncheon service, 
§26, p52 

menus, §26, p38 

menus. Suggestions for, §26, p39 
Dinners, Christmas, §26, p48 

Easter, §26, p45 

New Year's, §26, p45 

Thanksgiving, §26, p47 

Wedding, §26, p49 
Distilled water, §25, p3 
Divinity, §24, p36 

Dried and candied fruits in confections, 
§24, plO 

apples, §21, p54 

apricots, §21, pS4 

foods. Cooking and storing, §22, p5S 

fruits, Varieties of, §21, p50 

peaches, §21, p54 
Drip pot, §25, pl3 
Drying and canning, §22, pi 

Devices for, §22, p51 

method. Electric-fan, §22, pp50, 53 

method. Stove-, §22, pp50, 52 

method. Sun-, §22, ppSO, 52 

methods. Combination, §22, p54 

of apples, §22, p55 

of apricots, §22, p55 

of corn, §22, p54 

of food, §22, p50 

of greens, §22, p54 

of peaches, §22, p55 

of pears, §22, p55 

of quinces, §22, p5S 

of small fruits, §22, p5S 

of string beans, §22, p54 

of tuber and root vegetables, §22, p55 

Preparation of foods for, §22, p54 

vegetables and fruits. Directions for, §22, 

p54 

B 

Easter dinners, §26, p45 
Economical food buying, §26, pl3 
Economies in purchasing food, §26, plS 
Economy of food preservation, §22, p2 

of jelly making and preserving, §23, pi 
Egg chocolate, §25, p39 

milk shake, §25, p39 

nog. Foamy, §25, p40 

nog. Orange, §25, p40 
Eggplant and summer squash, Canning o£ 

§22, p32 
Electric-fan drying method, §22, ppSO, 53 
English breakfast tea, §25, pl9 
Equipment for canning, §22, p7 

for confection making, §24, pl3 

for household accounts, §26, p5 



VI 



INDEX 



Equipment for jelly making, %23, p5 
ExJiausting in canning, Meaning of, §22, p25 
Extra fine, or fancy fine, granulated sugar, 

§24, p4 
Extracting fruit juice in jelly making, §23, 

p8 
Extracts, Flavoring, §24, p7 

P 

Factors influencing cost of foods, %26, plO 

influencing foods, §26, p22 
Family income for food. Table showing 

proportion of, §26, pl4 
Fancy fine, or extra fine, granulated sugar, 

§34, p4 
Fat in confections, §24, p3 

in fruits, Protein and, §21, pS 
Feeding scale for infants, §26, p30 
Fermentation of fruit juices, §21, p8 
Figs, §21, p51; §22, p45 

Composition and food value of dried, 
§21, p7 

Composition and food value of fresh, 
§21. p7 

Pressed, §21, p5l 

Pulled, §21, pSl 

Steamed, §21, p52 

Stewed, §21, p51 
Filtered coffee, §25, plS 
Fine granulated sugar, §24, p4 
Fish and meat. Canning of, §22, p47 
Flat sour in canning, §22, p5 
Flavor fruits, §21, p3 

of canned food, §22, p49 

of jelly, §23, pl7 
Flavoring extracts, §24, p7 

oils, §24, p7 
Flavorings, Adulteration of, §24, p7 

Artificial, §24, p7 

Natural, §24, p7 
Flavors, Synthetic, §24, p7 
Florida oranges, §21, p36 
Flowery pekoe tea, §25, pl9 
Foamy egg nog, §25, p40 
Fondant, §24, p39 

and related creams, §24, p37 

Nature of, §24, p37 

Uncooked, §24, p49 
Food, Composition of, §26, p20 

cost, Chart of factors in, §26, pll 

Drying of, §22, p50 

Economies in purchasing, §26, plS 

Factors influencing, §26, p22 

Factors influencing cost of, §26, plO 

for canning. Selection of, §22, pS 

fruits, §21, p3 

Importance of proper amount of, §26, p23 

in calories, Quantity of, §26, p23 

materials in confections, §24, p9 

Preparation of fruits as, §21, pU 



Food preservation, Economy of, §22, p2 
Principles of drying, §22, p50 
Sterile, §22, p7 

substances to growth and health, Re- 
lation of, ^26, p21 
Suitability of, §26, pl8 
Table showing proportion of family in- 
come for, %26, pl4 
to be canned, Preparation of, §22, pl6 
value and composition of apples, §21, p7 
value and composition of apricots, §21, p7 
value and composition of bananas, §21, p7 
value and composition of black rasp- 
berries, §21, p7 
value and composition of blackberries, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of cherries, §21, p7 
value and composition of cranberries, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of currants, §21, p7 
value and composition of dates, §21, p7 
value and composition of figs, §21, p7 
value and composition of fruits, §21, p7 
value and composition of grapefruit, §21, 

P7 
value and composition of grapes, §21, p7 
value and composition of huckleberries, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of lemons, §21, p7 
value and composition of muskmelon, 

121, p7 
value and composition of nectarines, §21, 

p7 
value and composition of oranges, §21, p7 
value and composition of peaches, §21, p7 
value and composition of pears, §21, p7 
value and composition of persimmons, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of pineapple, §21, p7 
value and composition of plums, §21, p7 
value and composition of pomegranates, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of prunes, |21, p7 
value and composition of raisins, §21, p7 
value and composition of red raspberries, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of rhubarb, §21, p7 
value and composition of strawberries, 

§21, p7 
value and composition of watermelon, 

§21. p7 
value of fruits, §21, p8 
Foods, Conservation of, §22, p2 
Cost of, §26, plO 

for drying, Preparation of, S22, p54 
from spoiling, Preventing canned, §22, p6 
Methods for preserving, §22, pi 
Necessity for preserving, §22, pi 
Purchase of, §26, p3 
Quantity and proportion of, §26, p22 



INDEX 



vu 



Foods, Scoring canned, §22, p49 

Spoiling of canned, §22, p6 

Storing and serving canned, §22, p48 
Formosa tea, §25, pl9 
Fourth-of-July luncheons, §26, p47 
Fractional-sterilization method of canning, 

§22, ppl5, 23 
Freestone peaches, §22, p43 
Fritters, Banana, §21, p41 

Cherry, §21, p25 
Fruit, Acids in, §21, p6 

and fruit desserts, §21, pi 

as food, Preparation of, §21, pll 

beverages, §25, p32 

beverages. Ingredients for, §25, p32 

beverages. Preparation of, §25, p34 

butters, §23, pp23, 33 

Carbohydrate in, §21, pS 

Cellulose in, §21, p5 

cocktails, §21, p48 

cultivation. Advance in, §21, p3 

Definition of, §21, pi 

desserts. Fruit and, §21, pi 

Effect of cooking on, §21, p9 

for preserving. Selection of, §23, p21 

in jars, Packing, §22, pl8 

in jelly making. Cooking, §23, p8 

in the diet, §21, pi 

juice and sugar in jelly making. Boil- 
ing the, §23, pl3 

juice and sugar in jelly making. Com- 
bining the, §23, pl2 

juice for pectin in jelly making. Test- 
ing the, §23, plO 

juice lacking in pectin in jelly making. 
Using, §23, plO 

Minerals in, §21, p6 

nectar, §25, p35 

or berry, sugar, §24, p4 

Preparing and serving, §21, pll 

punch, §25, p36 

sugar, or levulose, §21, p5 

Water in, §21, p8 
Fruits and vegetables. Directions for dry- 
ing, §22, p54 

and vegetables for canning, Preparation 
of, §22, p27 

Canning methods for, §22, p39 

Canning vegetables and, §22, p27 

Citrus, §21, p31 

Classification of, §22, p39 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Composition of, §21, pp2, 4 

Digestibility of, §21, p9 

Directions for canning, §22, d37 

Dried, §21, pSO 

Drying of small, §22, p5S 
■ Effect of ripeness on, §21, p8 

Flavor, §21, p3 

Food. §21, p3 
WI-C5-22 



Fruits, Food value of, §21, p8 

Hard, §22, pp39, 44 

in confections. Candied and dried, §24, plO 

Miscellaneous citrus, §21, p38 

Miscellaneous tropical, §21, p44 

Nature of, §21, p3 

Non-tropical, §21, p20 

Protein and fat in, §21, pS 

Serving, §21, pll 

Soft, §22, pp39, 41 

Sour soft, §22, pp39, 42 

Special, §22, pp39, 45 

Sweet soft, §22, pp39, 41 

Table showing composition and food 
value of, §21, p7 

Tropical, §21, p39 

Varieties of dried, §21, p50 

Varieties of tropical, §21, p39 

Very sour soft, §22, pp39, 43 

Washing, §21, pll 
Fudge, Brown-sugar, §24, p36 

recipes, §24, pp34, 35 

Two-layer, §24, p35 
Fudges and related candies, §24, p34 

G 

General appearance of canned food, §22, p49 

Gin, §25, p6 

Ginger-ale punch, §25, p37 

Glace nuts and fruits, §24, p29 

Glass jars, §22, p9 

Glasses, Closing and storing jelly, §23, pl5 

Filling jelly, §23, pl5 
Glove oranges, §21, p38 
Glucose, §21, pS; §24, pS 
Goods, Nationally advertised, §26, pl3 
Gooseberries, §21, p20 

Green, §22, p43 
Gooseberry jam, §23, p32 
Graining of sugar irii candy making, §24, p34 
Granulated sugar, §24, p4 

sugar. Coarse, §24, p4 

sugar, Fancy fine, or extra fine, §24, p4 

sugar. Fine, §24, p4 

sugar. Standard, §24, p4 
Grape catsup, §23, p44 

jelly, §23, pl9 

juice, Unfermented, §21, p26 

lemonade, §25, p34 

marmalade, §23, p31 
Grapefruit cocktail, §21, p48 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

or shaddock, §21, p32 

Preparation of, §21, p33 

Selection of, §21, p32 

Serving, §21, p35 
Grapes, §21, p25; §22, p42 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 
Green corn. Canning of, §22, p34 

-gaire jcm, §23, p32 



vni 



INDEX 



Green gooseberries, §22, p43 

peppers, Canning of ol<ra and, §22, p32 

tea, §25, pl9 

-tomato pickle, §23, p43 
Greens, §22, p29 

Canning, §22, p30 

Drying of, §22, pS4 
Growth and health, Relation of food sub- 
stances to, §26, p21 
Guavas, §21, p44 

Eed, §21, pis 

White, §21, p45 
Gunpowder tea, §25, p20 



Hallowe'en luncheons, §26, p47 
Hard fruits, §22, pp39, 44 

■water, §25, p3 
Heavy sirup, §22, p38 
Honey, §24, p6 
Hot chocolate, §25, p29 
Household accounts. Equipment for, §26, p5 

accounts. Keeping of, §26, p4 

accounts. Methods of keeping, §26, p6 

budget, §26, pl3 
Huckleberries, §21, pl4 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Hydrometer, or sirup gauge, §22, p39 
Hyson tea, §25, p20 



Ice-cream soda, §25, p37 
Iced cafe au lait, §25, pl6 

cocoa or chocolate, §25, p29 

coffee, §25, pl6 

tea, §25, p21 
Income, Apportionment of, §26, pl3 
Infants and children. Diet for, §26, p29 

Feeding scale for, §26, pp30, 31 
Ingredients used in confections, §24, p4 
Instantaneous cereal beverages, §25, p32 

coffee, §25, p32 

J 
Jam, §23, p23 

Blackberry, §23, p33 

Definition of, §23, p31 

Gooseberry, §23, p33 

Green-gage, §23, p32 

Raspberry, §23, p32 

Strawberry, §23, p32 
Japan tea, §25, p20 
Jar covers or tops, §22, pll 

rubbers, §22, pll 

tops or covers, §22, pll 
Jars, Glass, §22, p9 

Wrapping and labeling, §22, p23 
Java coffee, §25, pll 
Jellies and preserves in the diet, §23, p2 

preserves, and pickles. Value of, §23, pi 
Jelly bag, §23, p6 



Jelly, Canning Iruit juices for, §23, p20 

Color of, §23, pl7 

Containers for, §23, p7 

Crab-apple, §23, pl8 

Cranberry, §21, pl6 

Currant, §23, pl8 

Flavor of, §23, pl7 

glasses. Closing and storing, §23, pl5 

glasses. Filling, §23, pl5 

Grape, §23, pl9 

making, §23, pi 

making and preserving. Economy of, §23, 
ppl, 4 

making. Cooking fruit in, §23, p8 

making. Extracting fruit juice in, §23, p8 

making. Kettles for, §23, p6 

making. Necessary equipment for, §23, p5 

making, preserving, and pickling, §23, pi 

making. Principles of, §23, p4 

making. Procedure in, §23, p8 

making. Proportion of sugar in, §23, pll 

making. Sheeting in, §23, pl4 

making. Utensils for, §23, p6 

Method of sealing, §23, pl7 

mixture. Testing the, §23, pl4 

Peach, §23, p20 

Plum, §23, p20 

Quince, §23, pl9 

Raspberry, §23, pl9 

recipes, §23, pl8 

Score card for, §23, pl6 

Scoring, §23, pl6 

Solidity of, §23, pl7 

Strawberry, §23, pl9 

Sugar content of, §23, pl7 
Juice in jelly making. Extracting fruit, 

§23, p8 
Juices for jelly, Canning fruit, §23, p20 
Julep, Mint, §25, p35 

K 

Ketchup, Tomato, §23, p44 
Kettles for jelly making, §23, p6 
Kumquats, §21, p38 
and loquats, §22, p46 



Left-over cocoa and chocolate, §25, p29 

-over coffee, §25, pl6 

-over tea, §25, p22 
Lemonade, §25, p34 

Grape, §25, p34 

Pineapple, §25, p35 
Lemons, §21, p35 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Levulose, or fruit sugar, §21, p5 
Light sirup, §22, p38 
Lima and other shelled beans. Canning of, 

§22, p34 
Limis, §21, p38 



INDEX 



IX 



Liquid and sugar in confection making, 

§24, pl7 
Loganberries, §21, p20 
Long-boiling process, §23, pl2 
Loquats and kumquats, §22, p46 
Luncheon, breakfast, and dinner service, 
§26, p52 

menus, §26, p40 

menus, Fourth-of-JuIy, §26, p47 

menus, Hallowe'en, §26, p47 

menus. Suggestions for, §26, p41 

menus, Wedding, §26, p49 

M 
Malic acid, §21, p7 
Malted milk. Chocolate, §2S, p39 
Mandarins, §21, p38 
Mangoes, Tamarinds and, §21, p4S 
Maple apples, §21, p23 

penuchie, §24, p36 

sirup and maple supjar, §24, p6 
Marketing, Cash-and-carry plan of, §26, p4 

Successful, §26, p3 
Marking and cutting candies, §24, p22 
Marmalade, §23, pp23, 29 

Grape, §23, p31 

Orange, §23, p30 

Orange-and-pineapple, §23, p31 

Quince, §23, p30 
Marshmallows, §24, p51 

coated with butter scotch, §24, p29 
Meals, Planning of, §26, pi 

Relation of beverages to, §25, p3 
Mean-boiling process, §23, pl2 
Measuring devices for canning, §22, p9 
Meat and fish. Canning or, §22, p47 
Medium sirup, §22, p38 
Melons, §21, p46 

Casaba, §21, p47 
Menu making and table service, §26, p35 

making, Card-file system of, §26, p37 

making. Rules for, §26, p3S 
Menus, Breakfast, §26, p42 

Dinner, §26, p38 

for adults' birthday parties, §26, p50 

for afternoon teas, §26, p5 

for children's birthday parties, §26, pSO 

for Christmas dinners, §26, p48 

for Easter dinners, §26, p4S 

for Fourth-of-July luncheons, §26, p47 

for Hallowe'en luncheons, §26, p47 

for New Year's dinners, §26, p4S 

for Saint Patrick's day parties, §26, p46 

for Saint Valentine's day parties, §26, p46 

for special occasions, §26, p44 

for supper parties, §26, p51 

for wedding breakfasts, §26, p48 

for wedding dinners, §26, p49 

for wedding luncheons, §26, d49 



Menus, Luncheon, §26, p40 

Summer breakfast, §26, p43 

Winter breakfast, §26, p42 
Method of drying foods, Stove, §22, p52 

of drying foods. Sun, §22, p52 

of sealing canned tood, §22, p49 

of sealing jelly, S23, pl7 
Methods of canning, §2J, pl3 

of keeping household accounts, §26, p6 

of making tea, §25, p20 

of securing variety in meals, §26, p37 
Middlemen, §26. pl2 

Milk, cream, and butter in confections, 
§24, pl2 

shake. Egg, §25, p39 

shake. Plain, §25, p39 
Milling of cocoa, §25, p28 
Mineral, or chemical, colorings, §24, p8 

salts in confections, §24, p3 

water, §25, p3 
Minerals in fruit, §21, p6 
Mint julep, §25, p3S 
Miscellaneous berries, §21, pl9 

citrus fruits, §21, p38 

confections, §24, p49 

tropical fruits, §21, p44 
Mixed teas, §25, pl9 
Mocha coifee, §25, pll 
Molasses, §24, p5 

Sorghum, §24, p5 

tafly, §/!4, p28 
Muskmelon, Composition and food value 

of, §21, p7 
Muskmelons and cantaloupes, §21, p46 

Serving, §21, p46 
Mustard pickles, §23, p41 

N 

Nationally advertised goods, §26, pl3 
Natural flavorings, §24, p7 
Nature of confections, §24, pi 
Navel oranges, §21, p36 
Nectar, Fruit, §25, p35 

Red-raspberry, §25, p36 
Nectarines, §21, p4S; §22, p46 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
New Year's dinners, §26, p4S 
Non-stimulating beverages, §25, pp2, 31 

-tropical fruits, §21, p20 
Nougat, §24, p52 
Nourishing beverages, §25, p38 
Nut bars, §24, p31 
Nuts in confections, §24, pll 

Salted, §24, p50 



Okra and green peppers. Canning of, §22, p32 
One-period cold-pack method of canning, 

§22, pl5 
Onions, Pickled, §23, p39 



INDEX 



Oolong tea, §23, pl9 

Open-kettle method of canning, §22, pl3 

-kettle method of canning, Procedure in, 
§22, pl4 

-kettle method of canning. Utensils re- 
quired for, |22, pI3 
Opera cream, §24, p45 
Orange-and-pineapple marmalade, §23, p31 

-and-rhubarb marmalade, §23t p30 

egg nog, §25, p40 

marmalade, §23, p30 

pekoe tea, §25, pl9 
Orangeade, §25, p34 
Oranges, §21, p36 

California, §21, p36 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Florida, §21, p36 

Glove, §21, p38 

Navel, §21, p36 

Preparation of, §21, p36 
Oriental deMght, §24, p51 
Orientals, §24, p47 
Oven method of canning, §22, ppl3, 26 



Packing fruit or vegetables in jars, §22, pl8 
Parsnips, Canning of, §22, p33 
Parties for adults. Menus for birthday, 
§26, pSO 

for children. Menus for birthday, §26, p50 

Menus for Saint Patrick's day, §26, p46 

Menus for Saifit Valentine, §26, p46 

Menus for supper, §26, p51 
Peach butter, §23, p34 

jelly, §23, p20 

pitter, §22, p9 

preserve, §23, p25 
Peaches, §22, p43 

apples, and apricots. Dried, §21, p54 

Clingstone, §22, p43 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Drying of, §22, p55 

Freestone, §22, p43 

Kinds of, §21, p27 

Pickled, §23, p40 

Stewed, §21, p27 
Peanut brittle, §24, p30 
Pear butter, §23, p35 
Pears, §21, p28; §22, p45 

Baked, §21, p28 

Drying of, §22, pS5 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 

Pickled, §23, p40 
Peas, Canning of, §22, p3S 
Pectin, §21, p5; §23, p5 

Testing fruit juice for, §23, plO 

Using fruit juice lacking in, §23, plO 
Pekoe tea, §25, pl9 

tea, Flowery, §25, pl9 

tea, Orange, §25, pl9 



Penuchie, Maple, §24, p36 

Peppers, Canning of okra and green, §22, 

p32 
Percolated coffee, §25, pl5 
Persimmons, §21, p4S; §22, p46 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Pickle, Green-tomato, §23, p43 

Kipe-tomato, §23, p43 
Pickled beans, §23, p38 

beets, §23, p38 

cauliflower, §23, p39 

crab apples, §23, p40 

onions, §23, p39 

peaches, §23, p40 

pears, ^23, p40 

watermelon rind, §23, p45 
Pickles in the diet, §23, p2 

jellies, and preserves. Value of, §23, pi 

Mustard, §23, p41 

Sliced-cucumber, §23, p37 

Small cucumber, ^23, p37 
Pickling, §23, pi 

Definition of, §23, p36 

Principles of, §23, p36 

recipes, §23, p37 
Pineapple-and-apricot conserve, §23, p27 

Food value and composition of, §21, p7 

lemonade, §25, p35 

Preparation of, §21, p43 

pudding, §21, p44 
Pineapples, §21, p41; §22, p46 

Selecting, §21, p43 
Plain caramels, §24, p32 

cocoa, §25, p27 

milk shake, §25, p39 
Planning of meals, §26, pi 
Plum butter, §23, p35 

conserve, §23, p28 

jelly, §23, p20 

preserve, §23, p2S 
Plums, §21, p28; §22, p44 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Stewed, §21, p29 
Pod and related vegetables, §22, pp29, 31 
Pomegranates, §21, p45 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Pomelo grapefruit, §21, p32 
Pop-corn balls, §24, p53 

corn, Preparing, §24, pl2 
Porcupine apples, §21, p22 
Pouring and cooling the candy mixture, 

§24, p20 
Powdered sugar, Coarse, §24, p4 

sugar. Standard, §24, p4 

sugar, XXXX, §24, p4 
Preparation of cocoa and chocolate, §2S^ p26 

of coffee, §25, pll 

of confections. Varieties and, §24, p26 

of food to be canned, §22, pl6 

of fruit as food, §21, pll 



INDEX 



XI 



Preparation of grapefruit, §21, p33 
of oranges, §21, p36 
of pineapple, §21, p43 
Preparing and serving fruit, §21, pU 
Preservatives, Canning, §22, p7 
Preserve, Cherry, §23, p24 
Peach, §23, p25 
Plum, §23, p25 
Quince, §23, p25 
Raspberry, §23, p24 
Strawberry, §23, p23 
Preserved-fruit recipes, §23, p23 

fruits. Varieties of, §23, p23 
Preserves and jellies in the diet, §23, p2 
jellies, and pickles. Value of, §23, pi 
proper, §23, p23 
Preserving, §23, ppl, 21 
foods, Methods for, §22, pi 
foods. Necessity for, §22, pi 
Methods of, §23, p21 
Principles of, §23, p2I 
Selection of fruit for, §23, p21 
Utensils for, §23, p22 
Pressed blueberry pudding, §21, pl4 

figs, §21, pSl 
Pressure cooker, §22, p23 

cooker. Canning with a, §22, p24 
Preventing canned goods from spoiling, 

§22, p6 
Principles of canning, §22, p5 
of drying food, §22, p50 
of preserving, §23, p21 
Procedure in confection making, §24, pl7 
in one-period cold-pack method, §22, pl6 
in open-kettle method of canning, §22, pl4 
Processing, §22, pplS, 19 

Proportion of family income for food. Table 
showing, §26, pl4 
of food to liquid in canned food, §22, p49 
of foods in balanced diet. Quantity and, 

§26. p22 
of sugar in jelly making, ^22, pll 
Protein and fat in fruits, §21, p5 

in confections, §24, p3 
Prune whip, §21, p53 
Prunes, §21, p52 
Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Stewed, §21, p52 
Stuffed, §21, p53 
Pudding, Blueberry, §21, plS 
Pineapple, §21, p44 
Pressed blueberry, §21, pl4 
Pulled figs, §21, pSl 
Pulverized sugars, §24, p4 
Pumpkin and squash. Canning of, §22, p3S 
Punch, Fruit, §25, p36 
Ginger-ale, §25, p37 
Purchase of foods, §26, p3 
Purchasing food. Economies in, §26, pl5 
Pure water. Necessity for, §25, p3 



a 

Quality of canned food, §22, p2 
Quantity and proportion of foods, §26, p22 

of foods in calories, §26, p23 
Quince jelly, §23, pl9 

marmalade, §23, p30 

preserve, §23, p25 
Quinces, §21, p29; §22, p45 

and apples. Stewed, §21, p29 

Drying of, §22, p55 

R 

Rainbow delight, §24, p44 
Raisins, §21, p54 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Raspberries, §21, pl6 

Black, §21, pl6 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Red, §21, pl6 
Raspberry-and-currant conserve. Red-, §23, 
p28 

jam, §23, p32 

jelly, §23, pl9 

nectar. Red-, §25, p36 

preserve, §23, p24 

shortcake, §21, pl7 

whip. Red-, §21, pl7 
Reception wafers, §24, p43 
Red-raspberry-and-currant conserve, §23, p28 

-raspberry nectar, §25, p36 

-raspberry whip, §21, pl7 
Relation of beverages to meals, §25, p3 

of food substances to growth and health, 
§26, p21 
Relish, Beet, §23, p42 

Crab-apple, §23, p4S 

Spanish, §23, p41 
Relishes, §23, p41 
Rhubarb, §21, p30; §22, p44 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 

Stewed, §21, p30 
Rio coffee, §25, pll 
Ripe-tomato pickle, §23, p43 
Rolls, Tutti-frutti, §24, p4S 
Root and tuber vegetables, §22, p29 

and tuber vegetables. Canning! of,l §22, p33 

and tuber vegetables. Drying of, §22, p55 
Rubbers, Jar, §22, pll 
Rules for menu making, §26, p3S 
Rum, §25, p6 
Rye coffee, §25, p31 

S 
Saint Patrick's day parties. Menus for, 
§26, p46 
Valentine parties. Menus for, §26, p46 
Salted nuts, §24, p50 
Samovar, §25, p20 
Sauce, Apple, §21, p21 
Cranberry, §21, d16 



INDEX 



Scalding or blanching in canning, §22, 

ppl4, 16 
Score card for canned food, |22, p^ 

card for jelly, §23, pl6 
Scoring canned foods, §22, p49 

jelly, §23, pl6 
Sea foam, §24, p37 
Seal tops, Automatic, §22, pll 
Sealing jars when canning, §22, p20 
Selection of coffee, §25, pll 

of food for canning, §22, p5 

of fruit for preserving, §23, p21 

of grapefruit, §21, p32 
Service, Essentials of good table, §26, p51 
Serving candy, §24, pS3 

canned foods. Storing and, §22, p48 

cantaloupes, §21, p46 

cocoa and chocolate, §25, p30 

coffee, §25, pl7 

fruit, Preparing and, §21, pll 

grapefruit, §21, p3S 

muskmelons, §21, p46 

tea, §25, p22 
Sex on diet, Effect of, §26, p27 
Shaddock, or grapefruit, §21, p32 
Sheeting in jelly making, §23, pl4 
Short-boiling process, §23, pl3 
Shortcake, Raspberry, §21, pl7 

Strawberry, §21, pl8 
Sirup, Chocolate, §23, p38 

Corn, §24, p6 

Density of, §22, p37 

gauge, or hydrometer, §22, p39 

Heavy, §22, p38 

Light, §22, p38 

Maple, §24, p6 

Medium, §22, p38 
Sirups for canning, §22, p37 

for canning fruits. Table of, §22, p38 
Sliced-cucumber pickles, §23, p37 
Small cucumber pickles, §23, p37 

fruits. Drying of, §22, p55 
Soft drinks, §25, p37 

drinks. Definition of, §25, p37 

fruits, §22, pp39, 41 

fruits. Sour, §22, pp39, 42 

fruits. Sweet, §22, pp39, 41 

fruits. Very sour, §22, pp39, 43 

sugars, §24, pp4, 5 

water, §25, p3 
Solidity of jelly, §23, pl7 
Sorghum molasses, §24, p5 
Souchong first tea, §25, pl9 

pekoe tea, §25, pl9 

second tea, §25, pl9 
Souffle, Apricot, §21, p24 
Soup, Canning of tomatoes for, §22, p36 
Sour cherries, §22, p43 

soft fruits, §22, pp39, 42 

soft fruits, Very, §22, pp39, 43 



Spanish relish, §23, p41 
Special fruits, §22, pp39, 45 

vegetables, §22, p29 
Spice cup, §25, p36 
Spoiling of canned foods, §22, p5 
Sponge, Blackberry, §21, pi3 
Spores, §22, p6 
Squash and pumpkin. Canning of, §22, p35 

Canning of eggplant and summer, §22, p32 
Standard granulated sugar, §24, p4 

powdered sugar, §24, p4 
Steam-pressure methods of canning, §22^ 

ppl3, 23 
Steamed apples, §21, p23 

figs, §21, p52 
Steeped tea, §25, p21 
Sterile food, §22, p7\ 
Sterilizer, §22, pl5 V 
Stewed figs, §21, p51 \^ 

peaches, §21, p27 

plums, §21, p29 

prunes, §21, pS2 _ 

quinces with apples, §21, p29 

rhubarb, §21, p30 
Stimulant and tannic acid in stimulating 

beverages, Table showing, §25, p7 
Stimulating beverages, §25, pp2, 6 

beverages. Definitions of, §25, p6 

beverages. Nature of, §25, p6 

beverages. Table showing stimulant and 
tannic acid in, §25, p7 
Stores, Chain, §26, pl3 
Stor'ng and cooking dried foods, §22, pSS 

and serving canned foods, §22, p48 

jelly glasses. Closing and, §23, pl5 
Stove-drying method, §22, pp50, 52 
Strainer for canning. Colander and wire, 

§22, p9 
Strawberries, §21, pl7; §22, p42 

Composition and food value of, §21, p7 
Strawberry-and-pineapple conserve, §23, p26 

-and-rhubarb conserve, §23, p^ 

desserts, Miscellaneous, §21, pl9 

huller, §22, p9 

jam, §23, p32 

jelly, §23, pl9 

preserve, §23, p23 

shortcake, §21, pl8 

whip, §21, pl9 
String beans, Canning of, §22, p32 

beans. Drying of, §22, p54 
Stuffed dates, §24, p49 

prunes, §21, p53 
Successful marketing, §26, p3 
Succotash, Canning of, §22, p35 
Sugar and fruit juice in jelly making. 
Boiling the, §23, pl3 

and fruit juice in jelly making. Com- 
bining the. §23, pl2 

and liquid in confection making, §24, pl7 



INDEX 



Xlll 



Sugar, Beet, §24, p4 

Cane, §24, p4 

Coarse granulated, §24, p4 

Coarse powdered, §24, ^4 

content of jelly, §23, pl7 

Fancy fine, or extra fine, granulated, 
§24, p4 

Fine granulated, §24, p4 

Fruit, or berry, §24, p4 

Graining of, §24, p34 

Granulated, §24, p4 

in jelly making. Proportion of, §23, pll 

Levulose, or fruit, §21, p5 

Maple, §24, p6 

Pulverized, §24, p4 

Soft, §24, pp4, 5 

Standard granulated, §24, p4 

Standard powdered, §24, p4 

XXXX, or confectioners', §24, p5 

XXXX powdered, §24, p4. 
Suggestions for dinner menus, §26, p39 

for luncheon menus, §26, p41 
Suitability of food, §26, pl8 
Summer breakfast menus, §26, p43 

cocktail, §21, p49 

squash, Canning of eggplant and, §22, p32 
Sun-drying method, §22, pp50, 52 
Supper parties. Menus for, §26, pSl 
Sweet chocolate, §25, p26 

soft fruits, §22, pp39, 41 
Synthetic flavors, §24, p7 
System of menu making. Card-file, §26, p37 



T 

Table of sirups for canning fruits, §22, p38 

service, §26, pSl 

service and menu making, §26, p35 

service. Essentials of good, §26, p51 

showing composition and food value of 
fruits, §21, p7 

showing correct weight for certain 
heights, §26, p28 

showing proportion of family income for 
food, §26, pl4 

showing stimulant and tannic acid in 
stimulating beverages, §25, p7 

showing tests for candy, §24, pl9 
Tables showing effect of weight on diet, 

§26, pp24, 25, 26 
Taffies and similar candies, §24, p26 

Nature of, §24, p26 
Taffy, Butter, §24, p27 

Chewing, §24, p28 

Method of treating, §24, p26 

Molasses, §24, p28 

recipes, §24, p27 

Vanilla, §24, p27 
Tamarinds and mangoes, §21, p45 
Tangerines, §21, p38 



Tannic acid in stimulating beverages. 
Table showing stimulant and, §25, p7 

acid, or tannin, §25, p7 
Tartaric acid, §21, p7 
Tea, Afternoon, §25, p21 

ball, §25, p21 

Black, §25, pl9 

Bohea, §25, pl9 

Caravan, §25, p20 

China congou, §25, pl9 

Classification of, §25, pl9 

Congou, §25, pl9 

English breakfast, §25, pl9 

Flowery pekoe, §25, pl9 

Formosa, §25, pl9 

Green, §25, pl9 

Gunpowder, §25, p20 

History and production of, §25, plS 

Hyson, §25, p20 

Iced, §25, p21 

Japan, §25, p20 

Left-over, §25, p22 

Methods of making, §25, p20 

Mixed, §25, pl9 

Oolong, §25, pl9 

Orange pekoe, §25, pl9 

Pekoe, §25, pl9 

Preparation of, §25, p20 

Selection of, §25, p20 

Serving, §25, p22 

Souchong first, §25, pl9 

Souchong pekoe, §25, pl9 

Souchong second, §25, pl9 

Steeped, §25, p21 

Table showing stimulant and tannic acid 
in, §25, p7 

Varieties of, §25, pl9 
Teas, Afternoon, §26, p51 
Testing candy, §24, pl8 

fruit juice for pectin, §23, plO 

the jelly mixture, §23, pl4 
Tests for candy. Table showing, §24, pl9 
Texture of canned food, §22, p50 
Thanksgiving dinners, Menus for, %26f p47 
Theine, §25, p7 
Theobromine, §25, p7 
Tin cans. Canning with, §22, p2S 

cans for canning, §22, pl2 
Tomato catsup, §23, p44 

ketchup, §23, p44 
Tomatoes and corn. Canning of, §22, p36 
Canning of, §22, p36 
for soup. Canning of, §22, p36 
Tops, Jar covers or, §22, pll 
Tropical fruits, §21, p39 
fruits. Miscellaneous, §21, p44 
fruits. Varieties of, §21, p39 
Tuber and root vegetables. Canning of, 
§22, p33 
vegetables. Root and, §22, p29 



INDEX 



Tubers and roof vegetables. Drying of, 

§22, p55 
Turnips, Canning of, §22, p33 
Tutti-frutti rolls, §24, p4S 
Two-layer fudge, §24, p35 

V 

Uncooked fondant, §24, p49 
Unfermented grape juice, §21, p26 
Utensils for canning, §22, p8 

for coffee making, §25, pl2 

for confection making, §24, pl3 

for drying, §22, p51 

for jelly making, §23, p5 

for preserving, §23, p22 

for tea making, §25, p20 

required for cold-pack method, §22, pl5 

required for open-kettle method of can- 
ning, §22, pl3 



Value of jellies, preserves, and pickles, 

§23, pi 
Vanilla taffy, §24, p27 

Varieties and preparation of confections, 
§24, p26 
of tea, §25, pl9 
of tropical fruits, §21, p39 
Variety in meals. Methods for securing, 

§26, p37 
Vegetable colorings, §24, p8 
Vegetables and fruits. Canning, §22, p27 
and fruits. Directions for drying, §22, p54 
Canning of root and tuber, §22, p33 
Classification of, §22, p29 
Direction for canning, §22, p29 
Drying of root and tuber, §22, p55 
for canning. Preparation of fruits and. 

§22, p27 
Pod and related, §22, pp29, 31 



Vegetables, Root and tuber, §22, p29 

Special, §22, p29 
Very sour soft fruits, §22, p43 
Vessels for canning, §22, p8 
Vienna coffee, §25, pl6 
Vitamines, §21, plO; §26, p22 

TV 

Washing fruits, §21, pll 
Water bath in canning. Preparing jars for 
the, §22, pl8 

Carbonated, §25, p3 

Distilled, §25, p3 

Hard, §25, p3 

in beverages, §25, p2 

in fruit, §21, p8 

Kinds of, §25, p2 

Mineral, §25, p3 

Necessity for pure, §25, p3 

-seal outfit, §22, p23 

-seal outfit. Canning with a, §22, p23 

Soft, §25, p3 
Watermelon, Composition and food value 
of, §21, p7 

rind. Pickled, §23, p45 
Watermelons, §21, p47 
Wedding-breakfast menus, §26, p48 

-dinner menus, §26, p49 

-luncheon menus, §26, p49 
Weight on children's diet. Effect of, §26, p29 

on diet, Effect of, §26, p23 
Whip, Prune, §21. pS3 

Red-raspberry, §21, pl7 

Strawberry, §21, pl9 
Whisky, §25, p6 
Wine, §25, p5 

Winter Lreakfast menus, §26, p42 
Wire strainer. Colander and, §22, p9 
Wrapping and labeling jars, §22, p23 

candies, §24, p25 



