NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736275 8 









\ 



TA e 

New r leans Federation 

of 

Clubs Cook Book 



COMPILED BY 

MRS. BEN. I. ISAACS, Chairman 
MRS. E. J- GRAHAM 
MRS. W. W. VAN METER 
MRS. P. A. BALMER 
MRS. THEO. DALY 



'That all softening, 

overpowering knell, 
The tocsin of the soul, 
the dinner bell" . 



PUBLISHED IN 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 
APRIL, 1917 



THE NEY; >~M" 

PUBLIC ^||ABV 

ASTOR. LENOX AM 



R 




^s 



FOREWORD 





; X placing the New Orleans Federation of Clubs Cook 
Book before the public we have a dual object. Firstly 
that the many tried and tested recipes, used for years 
in hundreds of our homes may be in ready exchange, 
and also to demonstrate that club women are real home 
makers, as interested service in the preparation and dispensing of 
the food of the family is the keystone in the arch of home life. 
When we serve well in our homes, we render a' great national ser- 
vice, and this viewpoint raises home-making out of the plane of 
drudgery and places it on the plane of Art. 

One takes satisfaction in one's work when one thinks of its re- 
lation to the larger life of the nation, but when what one is doing 
seems to have no connection with larger things, then it becomes 
drudgery. But when that work is illumined by science and tin- 
feeling that one is rendering social service it becomes a joy and is 
soul satisfying. We earnestly hope that the women who consult 
this book, whether club women or non-club women, will have a 
sense of comradeship and loyalty, as feeling themselves not isolated 
workers in the world but as members of a great profession, and so 
this profession of home-making will become a greater joy and a 
more splendid service. 

We would be less than appreciative, did we not say a few 
words in commendation of the spirit of co-operation which has 
been shown by the firms and individuals advertising in our bonk, 
and those others whose generosity in donating to its publication 
has been of material assistance. We thank the women who have 
contributed recipes, and enjoy with them a feeling of proprietor- 
ship in its success. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

President, N. O. F. C. 



NEW ORLEANS ASSOCIATION OF COMMERCE 

April 17. 1917. 



lire. 2. J. Graham, President, 

Nw Orleans Federation of Clubs, 

New Orleans, La 
Dear Madam: 

I am very glad indeed to avail myself 
of the opportunity you hava given me to eay a word in 
appreciation of the splendid work the organized women 
are now doing along civic, industrial and aocial lines. 
The fact that the women are taking an active and con- 
structive interest in the solution of many inportant 
problems is an assurance of greater progress and more| 
effective success. 

Very truly yours. 




President, 

NEW ORLEANS ASSOCIATION 07 COMMERCE. 



A Collect for Club Women 



KEEP us, O God, from pettiness; let us be large in thought, in 
word, in deed. 

Let us be done with fault-finding and leave off self-seeking. 

May we put away all pretense and meet each other face to face- 
without self-pity and without prejudice. 

May we be never hasty in judgment and always generous. 

Let us take time for all things ; make us to grow calm, serene, gentle. 

Teach us to put into action our better impulses, straightforward and 
unafraid. 

Grant that we may realize it is the little things that create differences ; 
that in the big things of life we are as one. 

And may we strive to touch and to know the great, common wo- 
man's-heart of us all, and, O Lord God, let us not forget to be 
kind ! Amen. 



4 




(No. 3) Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham, President N. O. F. C. 

(No. 1) Mrs. B. I. Isaacs, Chairman Cook Book Committee. 

(No. 2) Mrs. (W. W.) Gathering G. Van Meter, 4th Vice-Pres., Member 

Cook Book Committee. 
(<No. 4) .Mrs. P. A. Balmer, Federation Treasurer, and Member Cook 

Book Committee. 
(No. 5) .Mrs. Theo. T. Daly, Member Cook Book Committee. 



MEASUREMENTS. 

CHAPTER I. 

All measurements should be made LEVEL. 
Accurate measurement is essential to insure good cooking. 

A half-pint cup is the standard. They can be had with fourths 
and thirds indicated. 

A cupful is a cup filled LEVEL with the top. To measure a cup- 
ful, fill lightly with a spoon, taking care not to shake the cup; then 
level with a knife. 

A spoonful is a spoon filled LEVEL with the top. First sift 
the material into the bowl, clip in the spoon, lift it slightly heaping, 
and level it by sliding the side of a knife across the top of the spoon. 
Do not level by pressing it. 

Half a spoonful is obtained by dividing through the middle 
lengthwise. 

A speck of anything is what will lie within a space %-inch 
square. 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

2 Cups i pint 

2 Pints _ _ i quart 

4 Quarts i gallon 

8 Quarts i peck 

4 Cups flour i pound 

2 Cups solid butter i pound 

2 Cups granulated sugar i pound 

3 Cups corn meal i pound 

2 2-3 Cups powdered sugar i pound 

2 2-3 Cups brown sugar _ i pound 

2 Cups solid meat I pound 

16 Ounces i pound 

2 Tablespoons butter, sugar, salt i ounce 

4 Tablespoons flour i ounce 

1 6 Tablespoons i cup 

60 Drops . i teaspoon 

8 Salt spoons i teaspoon 

3 Teaspoons .. i tablespoon 

4 Tablespoons 1 A CU P 

4 Tablespoons I wine glass 



"Here's to the Club Woman, brave and true. 
Who does with a will what her hands find to do." 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING. 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION. 



I. PROTEIDS. . 



( E gg s 


i. Albumen - 


Meat 




Fish 




( Milk 
Animal 1 Cheese 






Peas 


2. Casein 


Vegetable * 


Beans 
Lentils 






L Peanuts 


3. Gluten Cereals 


4. Gelatine Bones and Fish 


5. Fibrine Muscle of Meat 



Use To build 
up tissue and 
repair worn- 
out tissue. 



u 

6 

o 



II. CARBONHYDRATES 



III. FATS AND OILS. 



( Cereals 

1. Starch | vegetables 

f Fruits 

2. Sugar < Vegetables 

( Sugar 

1. Butter 

2. Cream 

3. Fat of Meat 

4. Fish 

5. Cereals 

6. Nuts 

7. Olive Oil 



Use To f ur- 
ii i s h energy 
and maintain 
heat. 



U 

i i 

X 

< 
o 



I . Mi NERAL MATTER -< 



11. WATER 



I. 

2. 

3- 

4- 

15- 



Use To build up bone and 
other tissue, to aid diges- 
tion, to purify the blood. 



Sodium 
Iron 
Lime 
Potash 
Sulphur _ 

1. Regulates temperature. 

2. Aids in carrying off 
[ \ e : J 3- Acts as a carrier. 

4. Aids in digestion. 

5. Acts as a solvent. 

6 



RELATIVE VALUE OF FOOD. 

This table shows the quantities of various foods that are re- 
quired to equal a quart of milk in total nutrients. 

A quart of standard milk weighing 34.4 ounces contains 3.3 per 
cent Proteid, 4 per cent Fat, 5 per cent Starch and Sugar, ;md 7 
per cent Mineral matter, or 13 per cent Total Nutrients equal to 
4.47 ounces. 

Total Amount Net 

nutrients, required. cost. 

Kind of Food Per cent. Ounces. $ 

Beef, round, medium fat 32.1 13.9 $0.104 

Oysters 1 1.7 38.2 .382 

Codfish, boneless, dried _ 42.7 10.4 .065 

Eggs at 20 cents per dozen 23.3 19.1 .172 

Cheese, Cheddar 72.6 6.1 .061 

Wheat, flour 87.2 5.1 .008 

Macaroni 89.7 4.9 .046 

Cornmeal, granular 87.5 5.1 .017 

Potatoes at 60 cents per bushel 17.4 25.7 .016 

Beans, navy, dried 87.4 5.1 .017 

Cabbage 7.3 61.2 .076 

Cauliflower 7.7 58.0 .276 

Apples at $1.15 per bushel . ...11.4 39.2 .049 

Bananas at 15 cents per dozen 16.1 27.7 .111 

Prunes 66.0 6.8 .05 1 

LAYING THE TABLE. 

General Directions Cover the table with a silence cloth of felt- 
ing or Canton flannel. Over this spread a spotless table cloth 
evenly, the middle crease dividing the table exactly in half. 

Position of Host and Hostess Position of the host, at the head 
of the table near entrance door. Hostess at the foot of the table 
opposite. 

Placing Knives, Forks and Spoons Place the knife or knives 
at the right of each place, the sharp edge toward the plate ; the 
fork or forks next, tines up, one inch from the edge, being careful 
to have the spacing the same at every place. Soup spoons over 
the plate, handles to the right. Teaspoons to left of forks, bowls up. 

Place silver in the order in which it is to be used, counting 
from the outside toward the plate. 

Placing of Glasses Place the water glass at the right of plate, 
at end of knife blade. 

Placing Napkins, Pepper, Salt Place napkins at left of plate. 
Pepper and salt near corners, or one of each between the plao^ 
between two peoples. 

Sideboard and Side-TableObject: To hold all extras that may 
be needed during a meal. 

7 



WAITING ON TABLE. 

The table should look as neat and attractive as possible. Place 
everything straight upon the table. Turn no dishes upside down. 

Always heat the dishes in which warm food is served. 

Never fill the glasses and cups more than three-quarters full. 

When passing a plate, hold it so that the thumb will not rest 
upon the upper surface. When refilling the glasses, take hold of 
them near the bottom and draw them to the edge of the table, then 
remove them from the table. 

A waiter passes food to the left side of each person, except bev- 
erages, which should be placed at the right. 

In placing a dish in front of a person, the waiter should stand 
at the right. Food and dishes are removed from the right. 

In passing dishes from which a person is to help himself to 
a portion, pass it always from the left side, so that it may be taken 
with the right hand. 

In passing individual dishes from which the person does not 
help himself such as coffee, etc. set it down slowly and easily 
from the right hand side. 

When the dishes are being served by a person at the table, 
stand at the left hand of that person, hold your tray low and near 
the table, and take on the tray one plate at a time and place it 
before the person for whom it is intended, setting it down from 
the right side. 

Serve first the most honored guest. 

When one course is finished, take the tray in the left hand, and 
stand on the left side of the person you are waiting upon, and re- 
move with your right hand the spoons, knives and forks. Then 
remove the plate and small dishes, never piling them on top of 
each other, but removing them one at a time. Fill the glasses 
before each course. Before the dessert is served, remove the 
crumbs from the cloth, either with a brush or crumb knife. Do 
not let the table become disordered during the meal. The hostess 
should serve the soup, salad, dessert and coffee, and, at a family 
dinner, the vegetables and entrees. The host serves the fish and 
meat. 

To clear the table remove all dishes from each place, then the 
meat and vegetables. Remove crumbs from the cloth before bring- 
ing in dessert. 

TO CLEAR THE TABLE AFTER A MEAL. 

Brush the crumbs from the floor. Arrange the chairs in their 
places. Collect and remove the knives, forks and spoons. Empty 
the cups and remove them. Scrape off the dishes never set any 
food away on the dishes used for serving pile them up neatly and 
remove to the place where they are to be washed. Brush the 
crumbs from the cloth and fold it carefully in the old crease, as it 
lays on the table. If the napkins are used again, place them neat- 
ly folded in their individual rings. 

8 



CHAPTER II. 

"May Good Digestion wait on Appetite, and Health on both.'' 

CEREALS. 

Cereals or grains are seeds of certain members of the grass 
family ; they form a very important part of the food of man. Cer- 
eals are wheat, Indian corn or maize, oats, rice, rye, and barley. 
From these are prepared various breakfast foods, oatmeal, wheat- 
ena, etc. They all contain more or less starch. 

For family use, cereals should be bought in small quantities 
and kept in tightly corked jars. 

GENERAL RULES. 

Boiling water and salt should always be added to cereals- 
one teaspoon salt to one cup of cereal. 

They should be cooked directly over heat the first five min- 
utes and then over boiling water in a double boiler. 

Long cooking improves the flavor and makes them more eas- 
ily digested. 

ROLLED OATS OR WHEAT. 

i cup rolled oats, i teaspoon salt, 2 cups boiling water. 

Boil ten minutes, stirring constantly; then over boiling water 
one hour longer. A better flavor is developed by longer cooking. 
One-fourth pound of dates, stoned and cut in pieces and stirred in 
the mush, may be added, and served as a dessert for dinner or 
luncheon. 

CREAM OF WHEAT. 

]/2 Cup cream wheat, i teaspoon salt, 

4 cups boiling water. 

See that the water is actually boiling in a saucepan. Add salt, 
then cream of wheat gradually. Stir constantly until thick. Cook 
Y-Z to y$ hour over hot water. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

4 Cups boiling water, 2]/ 2 teaspoons salt, 

i cup cornmeal. 

Add the salt to the boiling water. Add the meal gradually, 
so that the water will not stop boiling, and stir continually, keep- 
ing it directly over the heat 10 minutes. Cook over boiling water 
T /> to 3 hours longer. Long cooking improves the flavor. 

SAUTED CORNMEAL MUSH. 

Put left over mush into a dish and smooth it over the top. 
When cold cut into slices y 2 inch thick. Dip each slice into flour. 
Melt y-2. teaspoon dripping in a frying pan, and be careful to let it 
get smoking hot. Brown the floured slices on each side. Drain 
if necessary and serve on a hot plate with syrup. 



BAKED CORN CAKE. 

i Pint cornmeal, 2 teaspoons salt, 

2 quarts boiling water, I ounce butter. 

Scald cornmeal with water and add salt. Spread about one- 
fourth inch thick on greased baking pan; finish in hot oven till 
quite dry. 

CEREAL WITH SLICED BANANAS. 

i Pint cooked oatmeal, 4 bananas sliced, 

i pint whipped cream. 

Pour left-over breakfast cereal into after-dinner coffee cups, 
rinsed in cold water and set aside. When cold and ready to use, 
turn from the cups on to a buttered pan, and heat in the oven. To 
serve surround with sliced bananas; whipped cream, clotted cream 
or plain cream with sugar. 

BARLEY, TAPIOCA. SAGO, ETC. 

y% Cup barley or other hard grain, i quart boiling water, 

i teaspoon salt. 

Add salt to the boiling water and pour gradually on the barley, 
or other hard grain and boil until tender from i to 2 or more hours, 
according to the grain, and have each kernel stand out distinct when 
done. 

Add more boiling water as it evaporates. Use as a vegetable, 
or in soups. Pearl barley, tapioca and sago cook quicker than the 
ordinary large grains. 

BOILED RICE. 

i Cup rice, i tablespoon salt, 2 quarts boiling water. 

Pick over rice and wash thoroughly. 

Add slowly to boiling, salted water so as not to check boiling 
of water. Boil rapidly for 30 minutes or until kernels are soft. 
Drain in coarse strainer, pour over i quart hot water. Drain, place 
strainer in pan, in a moderate oven, to keep rice hot and dry. 

STEAMED RICE. 

i Cup rice, 2 teaspoons salt, 4 cups boiling water. 

Pick over and wash the rice in three or four waters. Put it 
with the boiling water, and salt into the double boiler. Steam 40 
minutes or until tender. Serve with milk or cream. 

CURRIED RICE. 

i Cup rice, 3 cups hot chicken or veal broth, 

i onion, butter, 2 teaspoons curry powder. 

Cover rice with cold water, bring quickly to boiling point, 
drain and rinse in cold water. Then cook in the chicken or veal 
broth and when half done add the onion finely chopped and sauted 
in butter and the curry powder creamed with a little butter. Mix 
thoroughly, add more stock if needed, and finish cooking in a slow 
oven. Serve with hot chicken or veal. 

10 



TURKISH RICE. 

YZ Cup washed rice, -}4 cup tomatoes, stewed and strained, 
i cup brown soup stock, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 

highly seasoned. 

Add tomato to stock and heat to boiling point; add rice and 
steam until rice is soft; stir in butter with a fork and keep uncov- 
ered that steam may escape. Serve in place of vegetables, or as 
a border for curried or fricassed meat. 

RICE WITH GRATED SWEET CHOCOLATE. 

Cook one cup rice, (as boiled rice given above), place in hot 
serving dish, sprinkle generously with grated sweet chocolate, set 
in oven one minute and serve. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Put i cup washed rice in frying pan with 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls 
poultry or bacon fat. add 5 onions chopped, 2 cloves of garlic minced 
fine. Fry 10 minutes, add i red pepper or i canned pimento chop- 
ped, or i teaspoon paprika and 3 ripe tomatoes or 2 cups strained 
tomatoes, add i teaspoon salt. Cook slowly about i hour, and as 
water evaporates, add more to keep from burning. 

BAKED RICE. 

i Cup rice, 2^/2 cups boiling water, i teaspoon salt, Y* CU P 
chicken gravy or 2 beef cubes dissolved in Y* cup boling 
water, paprika and celery salt, Y-\ CU P strained tomatoes, 
l /4 cup cracker crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter. 
Add salt to the boiling water, add gravy and cook with rice in 

a double boiler until nearly tender. Butter a pudding dish, dust 

with cracker crumbs, add rice, seasonings and the tomato juice. 

Cover with the cracker crumbs and bits of butter and bake i hour. 

Turn out of pan and serve hot with broiled lamb chops. 

SCALLOPED RICE AND TOMATOES. 

4 Cups cooked rice, salt and pepper, i can tomatoes, 

Y cup bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Put alternate layers of boiled or steamed rice, and canned to- 
matoes in a buttered baking dish, season each layer of tomatoes 
with salt and pepner. Cover top with crumbs and bits of butter. 
Bake 20 minutes in hot oven or until mixture is hot and the crumbs 
are browned. 

RICE WITH CHEESE. 

i Quart cooked rice, Y$ CU P grated cheese, 

i cup white sauce. 

Cook i cup rice and keep hot. Make white sauce, and just 
before taking from the fire, add the cheese; beat until melted and 
pour over the rice into a heated vegetable dish, lifting the grains 
with a fork that the sauce may pass through every grain. Serve 
at once. 



RICE SOUP. 

Add a cup of boiled rice to one quart of heated home-prepared 
soup stock or canned consomme. Stir until it comes to a boil, 
season with pepper, salt and parsley or anything you like. 

CREAM OF RICE. 

Cover a cup of rice with a quart of chicken or veal stock, add 
a slice of onion and half-teaspoonful of celery salt. Boil for 35 
minutes. Press through a colander; add one quart of hot milk. 
Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour or some rice water. Add a 
tablespoonful of butter and serve. 

RICE WITH VEGETABLES. 

Wash a knuckle of beef or soup bone and place in three quarts 
of cold water for an hour. Put it on the stove and let it gradu- 
ally heat, then simmer for two hours. Any scum rising when it 
first begins to boil should be skimmed off. Have y* cup of chop- 
ped onions, carrots, cabbage, tomatoes, *4 CU P of turnip, three cloves, 
a pinch of cayenne, black pepper and i l /2 teaspoonfuls salt. Add 
these to the simmering meat and let boil for one hour; then add a 
cup of rice and a bay leaf. Boil, stirring occasionally until the 
rice is cooked. When the kettle is closely covered there is little 
need of adding water ; if water is added it must be kept boiling. 

RICE JAMBALAYA. 

One and a half cups of rice that has been thoroughly washed, 
one pound of fresh pork, one pound of sausage, one slice of ham, 
half a seeded red pepper, one large tomato, one sweet pepper, one 
large onion, one clove of garlic, 3 sprigs of parsely, one sprig of 
thyme, two ground cloves, one crushed bay leaf, one tablespoonful 
of butter. Cut pork and ham in very small pieces ; the sausage 
in rather large slices. Mince all of the other ingredients. Care- 
fully brown the onion and the pork in butter. When light brown 
add the ham and the other seasoning and brown together for five 
minutes. Then add the sausage and cook five minutes longer, stir- 
ring constantly. Add three quarts of hot water or clear soup stock. 
Boil ten minutes then add the washed rice after which boil half an 
hour or until firm. This is the real Jambalaya. But the average 
Southern housekeeper does not make such an elaborate dish of it, 
the Jambalaya being a method of utilizing left-overs. It is a fav- 
orite way of finishing up ham, veal and beef scraps in combination. 
Chicken, sausage, shrimp and oysters make good Jambalaya. 



12 



CHAPTER III. 

Four things that do not return "The spoken word; the sped 
arrow, time past; and neglected opportunity." Words uttered by 
Mrs. Philip North Moore, at San Francisco Biennial. 

BEVERAGES. 



HOT DRINKS. 
GENERAL RULES. 

A beverage is any drink. Water is a beverage and is an es- 
sential to life. All beverages contain a large per cent of water, 
and aid to quench thirst, to introduce water into the system and 
regulate the temperature ; to assist in carrying off waste ; to nour- 
ish ; to stimulate the nervous system and various organs. Freshly 
boiled water should be used for making hot beverages ; freshly 
drawn water for making cold beverages. 

MILK. 

Vessels used for milk must be thoroughly cleansed ; they should 
be first washed in clear, cold water. Fill them with water in 
which a teaspoon of borax or bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, 
and let stand one hour. Then scald, wipe thoroughly, and stand 
in the sun or'near the stove to dry. 

Cover milk with muslin and keep in a cold place. Milk may be 
sterilized or pasteurized to destroy disease germs. 

In summer, milk should be sterilized twice a day, for babies 
or young children. 

PASTEURIZED MILK. 

Sterilize milk bottles or jars by boiling them twenty minutes 
in water. 

Fill sterile bottles or jars nearly full of milk, cork them with 
baked cotton, place on rings in a deep pan and fill with cold water 
so that the water may be as high outside the jars as the milk is in- 
side, place the pan over the fire and allow the bottle to stand there 
15 minutes, then reduce the temperature as quickly as possible, 
and when milk is cold remove the bottles from the water and keep 
in a cold place. In summer milk should be pasteurized twice a 
day for babies. 

"Everything in the world depends on woman."- Beaconsfield. 

FILTERED COFFEE. 

i Cup coffee, finely ground, 6 cups freshly boiling water. 

Place coffee in strainer, strainer in coffee pot and pot over slow 
fire. Add gradually the boiling water and allow it to filter or drip. 
Cover between additions of w^ater. If desired stronger, refilter. 
Serve at once with cut sugar, cream or scalded milk. Put sugar 
and cream in cup, then add the hot coffee. 

13 



BOILED COFFEE. 

i Heaping teaspoon ground coffee to i cup freshly boiling water. 

i Cup ground coffee to i quart freshly boiling water. 
Mix the coffee with a clean eggshell and a little cold water, and 
place in a well-aired coffee pot. Add the freshly boiling water and 
boil five minutes. Let stand on back of stove 10 minutes. Add 
^2 cup cold water. 

NOTE : Coffee should be freshly ground and kept in air-tight 
cans. A favorite coffee is 2-3 Java and 1-3 Mocha. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

Cook one cup of strong coffee with -}^ cup of sugar until it will 
spin a thread, pour slowly onto 3 or 4 well beaten yolks, add dash 
of salt and beat until cold. Add 2 cups whipped cream ; pack in 
ice cream cylinder and freeze. When ready to serve, fill tall 
stemmed glasses, cover with whipped and sweetened cream and 
place Maraschino cherry in centre, or dust with powdered choco- 
late. Mrs. B. I. Isaacs, President "Bluebirds". 

"Man may be at the head of the family, but far better than that, 
woman is the heart of it."- -Punch. 

i Tablespoon tea, i quart boiling water, 2 cups sugar, 
6 lemons, juice, 2 oranges, juice, i pint Apollinaris. 

Place tea in large earthenware pitcher, pour on the water, cov- 
er well with heavy holded napkin, let stand 5 minutes and strain. 
Add sugar and the fruit juices, and crushed mint leaves, if desired. 
Cool and when ready to serve add ice and the chilled Apollinaris. 

GRAPE JUICE PUNCH. 

Melt 6 cups sugar in 6 quarts of water, add 2 cans of pineapple 
chunks, cut in shreds, and add three oranges cut across in slices 
and into tiny pieces, one quart of grape juice, let stand two hours; 
then add juice of twenty lemons and large piece of ice. 

This will serve one hundred guests. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

RUSSIAN ICED TEA. 

i Tablespoon tea, i cup boiling water, loaf sugar, i slice 
lemon or i teaspoon preserved strawberries, respberries, 
cherries, or pineapple or, i teaspoon rum or brandy. 

Make tea for as many cups as desired, strain and cool. Place 
in ice box, chill thoroughly and serve in tall glass with ice and 
flavor with any of the above ingredients. 

NOTE: Loaf sugar may be flavored with lemon or orange and 
packed and stored in jars to be used later, to flavor and sweeten 
the tea. Wash rind of lemon or orange and wipe dry, then rub 
all over all sides of the sugar. 

"Fairest of creatures, last and best."- -French. 

14 



CREME DE MENTHE. 

\y 2 Quarts of water to 3 cups crushed sugar ; boil to thick sy- 
rup. When boiled this should make 4 of a quart; strain through 
cloth; leave it to cool; when cool add 3 or 4 drops of Oil of Pep- 
permint, then 4 oz. of best alcohol: shake well, color with 4 drops 
of green vegetable coloring. 

Same recipe can be used instead of peppermint, use almond oil 
and color with red vegetable coloring or flavor with oil of anise (4 
drops) and no coloring will make a delicious anisette; if it is cloudy, 
dip bottle in warm water for few minutes. 

Mrs. F. K. Rice, 
McDonogh School No. n, Co-operative Club. 

CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

Mix in punch bowl : i Quart champagne, i bottle Club Soda, 
i pony glass Curacoa, 2 slices cucumber rind, a few strawberries, 
if in season, 3 or 4 slices of pineapples. Serve in Star Champagne 
glasses. 

Mrs. Frank K. Rice, 
McDonogh School No. 17. Co-operative Club. 

FRUIT ACID. 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in 2 quarts of water; pour 
it over 12 pounds of berries, or any kind of fruit, let it stand twelve 
hours; then strain without pressing, and to a pint of juice add l / 2 
pound white sugar, or sweeten to taste; stir it till thoroughly dis- 
solved, then bottle, but do not cork for several days. It makes a 
nice summer drink with ice water, or frozen. 

Mrs. Lee R. Harris, Baton Rouge, La. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

Put in punch bowl: I* 1 /* cup of strong black tea, 6 oranges, 
(sliced), 6 lemons, (juice only), i pineapple (diced), i pint Maras- 
chino cherries, i quart plain syrup, i quart white wine, ]/ 2 pint rum, 
y 2 pint good whiskey, 2 bottles seltzer just before serving; sweeten 

to suit taste. 

Mrs. Frank K. Rice, Woman's Exposition Club. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Squeeze one water bucket of berries; add to one pint of juice 
one pound of white sugar, half ounce powdered cinnamon ; *4 ounce 
of mace, two teaspoonfuls of cloves. Boil together for one-fourth 
hour. Strain the syrup through thin cloth bag, and to each pint 
add wineglass of brandy. Bottle and cork air-tight. This will 

keep indefinitely. 

K. L. Anderson, X. O. l ; . C. 

15 



RICE'S COCKTAIL. 

i Quart of any good whiskey, }/ 2 pint anisette, l /4 pint curacao, 
l /4 pint any good bitters, l /^ pint Maraschino ; dash peppermint, 
serve with lemon or cherries, if too sweet, add whiskey to suit taste. 

Mrs. F. K. Rice. 
McDonogh No. 17 Co-operative Club. 

"All the reasonings of men are not worth one sentiment of woman." 

Voltaire. 

PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

i Quart cold water, 2 cups sugar, i cup orange juice. 

y 2 cup lemon juice, 2 cups chopped pineapple. 
Boil water and sugar and pineapple 20 minutes; add fruit juice; 
cool, strain and dilute with ice water. 

FRUIT PUNCH FOR 50 PEOPLE. 

i Cup water, 2 cups sugar, i cup tea infusion, i quart apol- 
linaris, 2 cups strawberry syrup. Juice of 5 lemons, juice 
of 5 oranges, i can grated pineapple. 

Boil water and sugar to a syrup 10 minutes, add tea, straw- 
berry syrup, lemon juice, orange juice and pineapple; let stand l / 2 
hour. Strain and add ice water to make 2 gallons of liquid. Add 
cherries and Apollinaris, serve in punch bowl with large piece of ice. 

GRAPE PUNCH. 
No. i. 

l /4 Cup grape juice, i teaspoon lemon juice, ^ CU P C W water, 

sugar to taste. 

Mix with strained grape juice, add lemon juice and water, 
slice of orange or pineapple may also be added. 

No. 2. 

i Pound sugar, i cup water, 6 lemons, juice, 

i quart unsweetened grape juice. 

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread when dropped from 
a spoon. Take from fire and when cool add the juice of the lemon 
and grape juice. Let stand over night. When ready to serve 
add Apollinarus or soda water. 

"From four things God preserve us : A painted woman, a con- 
ceited valet, salt beef without mustard, and a little late dinner.' 

Italian. 

-16 



WASHINGTON PUNCH FOR 12 PEOPLE. 

1 Pint pineapple, sliced, i cup sugar, }/> bottle Moselle 
wine, 2 bottles Rhine wine, i bottle claret wine, I pint 
pineapple, sliced fine, i quart champagne, large piece of ice. 

Sprinkle the sugar over the pineapple, add the half bottle .Mo- 
selle and let stand 24 hours. Strain, add the rest of the Rhine and 
the claret wine and the other ^ sliced pineapple. Place on ice, 
just before serving add the champagne and serve from punch bowl 
with large piece of ice. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

To every quart bottle of champagne, allow i pint of white 
wine and 2 cups of water. Sweeten to taste, add the juice of 2 
oranges, the juice of 2 lemons, YZ pint of sliced pineapple and a few 
sliced oranges. Put in a punch bowl, add a big lump of ice and 
serve. 

Airs. C. J. Altman, Fin-Sec. N. O. Federation. 

STRAWBERRY PUNCH. 

2 Quarts strawberries, 2 pounds sugar, juice 2 oranges, 
juice i lemon, ice water, i cup champagne, 2 whites of 
eggs, ice. 

Crush the berries with the sugar. Let stand 2 hours; strain 
through a bag. Add orange and lemon juice and let stand on ice 
until wanted, then add an equal measure of ice water the cham- 
pagne and whites beaten stiff. Place in punch bowl with large 
piece of ice and serve in tall glasses. 



CHAPTER IV. 

BREAD. 

''She needeth least who kneadeth best, 
These rules which we shall tell, 
Who kneadeth ill shall need them more 
Than she who kneadeth well." 

One yeast cake, dissolved in one gill of luke warm water. Use 
compressed yeast cake. 4 quarts flour, 2 level tablespoonfuls salt, 
4 level tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 rounded tablespoonfuls lard. 

Sift flour and sugar together into a large bowl or deep pan, 
kept specially for the purpose, rub in the lard, mixing well. Then 
add the dissolved yeast cake. Then add a scant quart and a half 
of tepid water to make very stiff dough, using a stout strong knife 
to mix cutting and mixing thoroughly ; cover with bread board or 
tray and set in warm place until morning to rise. In morning 
empty out on well floured bread board, do not knead much, turn 
the mass over a few times to smooth it out, cut it into six pieces, 
place in pans greased with lard, dot tops of loaves with butter to 
form nice crust, set aside until loaves rise to within half-inch of 
top of pans. Place in oven, if gas stove is used light after loaves 
are in oven, turn both flames half off and bake forty-five minutes 
to an hour. In summer bread may be mixed in morning about 
eight or nine o'clock to be baked at four in the afternoon. To make 
rolls take pieces of the dough smaller than an egg, and roll a tiny 
piece of butter in each and place close together in pan with high 
sides, bake same as bread. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 
RAISIN BREAD. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, three eggs, one cake 
compressed yeast, one cup milk, one cup boiling water, one tea- 
spoon salt, one cup seeded raisins, and seven cups flour. Make 
at night. Scald the milk and add the water. Let stand until 
luke warm, remove one-half of this mixture and dissolve the yeast 
cake in it. To the remaining milk and water add four cups of 
flour and make a batter ; beat it for ten minutes, and then add the 
yeast, let stand until light, or over night. In the morning cream, 
butter and sugar together, and add the eggs to this, one at a time, 
then add the egg and sugar mixture to the sponge together with 
the raisins and the remaining flour. Mix thoroughly, place in a 
buttered bowl, and let rise until light. Form into loaves and place 
in buttered pans, let rise again, and bake forty minutes. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

18 



BUTTERMILK CORN BREAD. 

One cup meal ; l /> teaspoonful soda ; i egg ; i heaping teaspoon- 
full flour; salt; buttermilk to make soft batter. Beat all smooth 
and pour in pan where 2 teaspoons lard have been melted and is 
very hot. Cook in steady medium hot oven until brown and firm 
and serve hot. 

Mrs. S. E. McClendon. 

MUSH BREAD. 

One pint sweet milk; i heaping tablespoon butter; i cup meal; 
4 eggs; salt to taste. Put milk on to heat and when hot sift in 
meal, stirring constantly until smooth and stiff. Add butter and 
take off to cool then add lightly beaten yolks of eggs, then the 
whites and pour in buttered baking pans. Set pan in a larger pan 
of hot water and bake in oven for about 20 minutes. 

Mrs. S. E. McClendon. 

GINGER BREAD No. 1. 

One cup of molasses, *< teaspoon of soda, i cup of melted lard, 
2 eggs, l / 2 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 teaspoons ginger, pinch of salt, i 
cup buttermilk, flour to make a thick batter. Bake .in slow oven. 
Mrs. B. A. Warriner, 1525 Short St., N. O., La. 

GINGER BREAD No. 2. 

Stir to a cream I cup of butter and l / 2 cup of brown sugar. 
Add i l /2 cups molasses, i cup sweet milk, I tablespoon ginger, i 
teaspoon cinnamon. Beat 3 eggs, whites and yolks separate, add 
2 cups of flour, i teaspoon soda, then add 2 cups more of flour. 

Mrs. J. M. Dresser. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One pint sweet milk, i cup molasses, 2]/ 2 cups graham flour, 
sifted, i cup corn meal, y 2 cup white flour, i teaspoon soda, i tea- 
spoon salt, i cup seeded raisins. Put in baking powder cans, put 
on cover and steam three hours. 

Mrs. J. M. Dresser. 

NUT (PECAN) BREAD. 

Two cups flour, 1-3 cup sugar, i cup sweet milk, i cup chopped 
pecan nuts, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 4 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, i teaspoon salt. Let mixture stand 20 minutes in baking 
tin ; bake *4 hour. 

NUT BREAD. 

Sift together 4 cups flour, 4 tablespoonfuls sugar (scant ) */> 
teaspoonful salt, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. I'c.'it 2 
eggs very light, add one cup milk to them, and add to the above 
ingredients also, i tablespoonful melted butter, i cup raisins, i cup 
nuts. Bake in square pan about 35 minutes. 

Mrs. C. A. Mcis^ner. 

19 



SOFT CORN BREAD. 

One large egg, beaten light ; i cupful corn meal ; i tablespoon- 
ful melted lard; i teaspoonful baking powder; i cupful could grits 
(fine); iy> cupfuls milk; l /> teaspoonful salt. Bake in greased bis- 
cuit pan, and serve with spoon. 

Kingsley House Social Settlement. 

POTATO BREAD. 

(Normal Alumnae) 

One quart flour; 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder; i teaspoonful 
salt; I tablespoonful shortening; l / 2 cup mashed Irish potatoes; i 
cup sweet milk. Sift dry ingredients together, cut the shortening 
into the mixture with knife, add potatoes, then milk, mixing until 
the whole is a light spongy mass ; turn on a well floured board and 
shape into a loaf. Let stand 5 minutes before putting in oven. 
Bake in a greased pan in a moderate oven. 

CRUMB GINGER BREAD. 

Four cups flour, 2 cups sugar, i cup butter; work till fine 
crumbs. Set aside 2 cups of this. To the rest add 2 eggs beaten 
well, i cup buttermilk, i teaspoon soda, i teaspoon ginger, i tea- 
spoon cinnamon, i teaspoon nutmeg. Grease pan, put i cup 
crumbs in bottom, then batter and other cup of crumbs over top. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

SPOON BREAD. 

One pint buttermilk or good clabber; i tablespoonful butter; 
YZ cup meal ; 3 eggs beaten together ; i level teaspoon soda ; salt to 
taste. Put soda into milk, add beaten eggs and melted butter; 
gradually beat in meal, with salt to taste. The batter must be 
very thin; if necessary, use less than given quantity of meal. Pour 
into well-greased pan and bake rather slowly till set and nice light 
brown. Serve while hot with butter. The mass will be about 
consistency of rice pudding. 

Mrs. R. J. Herring, Floyd, La. 



20 



CHAPTER V. 

BISCUITS, BREAKFAST CAKES AND PIES. 
BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Two pounds of flour; y 2 pound lard or crisco ; salt, and a little 
pinch of soda. Put aside several tablespoons of flour for rolling. 
Put the lard or crisco in the flour and mix thoroughly by squeexi-i,: 
it up and rubbing it between your hands until it looks somewhat 
like rolled cracker crumbs, then add cold water, a little at the time, 
until you have a stiff dough, if any sticks to the tray, rub it up with 
a little of the reserve flour and wet it a little so it will mix together. 
Put it on the board (I have a marble slab) beat until it is white, 
smooth, and blisters, use the reserve flour to put on the board and 
beater to keep from sticking. Have the oven moderately hot, they 
will blister if too hot, but it" not hot enough the biscuit will be dry 
and tasteless. If you see they are blistering, open the stove door 
often, but never take them out to cool, if you do they will fall, and 
will never rise again. 

Make the dough a good deal stiffer than yeast powder biscuit, 
roll moderately thin, and stick lightly with a fork to prevent blis- 
tering. This receipt makes over a hundred little biscuits. 

If you have a heavy rolling pin you can beat with that, but a 
heavier and longer stick is better. I have a beater which was made 
by one of my old slaves. 

Mrs. M. E. Connor. 
DOUGHNUTS. 

Five good-sized Irish potatoes creamed with i cup sweet milk 
and heaping tablespoon butter. Season potatoes with salt just as 
though they were to be used for table. 

Two cups sugar, 4 eggs. 5 cups flour, measured before sifting. 
i grated nutmeg, 4 teaspoons baking powder. Add potatoes to 
well beaten eggs and sugar, then flour, cup by cup, and fry in large 
saucepan of boiling grease. 

Mrs. E. K. Harrison. 
BISCUIT. 

Two cups of flour, i heaping teaspoon of salt, 2 rounding tea- 
spoons baking powder. Sift together. Mix well i heaping table- 
spoon of lard; add enough sweet milk to make a soft dough. Roll 
out, cut and bake in hot oven. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Jerome E. Landry. 

DELICIOUS QUICK ROLLS. 

Sift 3J/2 cups flour; make a hole in center; put in i teaspoonful 
salt, i tablespoon sugar. Dissolve a cake of Fleischmann's yeast 
in y 2 cup luke warm water. Add this to flour. Lastly, add heat- 
en white of one egg. Knead as little as possible. Set aside to 
rise for two hours. Make into rolls, (or bread), let it rise i hour. 
Bake 35 minutes in slow oven. Just before browning, grease t 
with lard. Same may be made into cinnamon mil-. 

Mrs. Henry Alcus, X. ('). I ; . C. 

21 



MUFFINS. 

Beat i egg in I pint of sweet milk, add enough flour to make 
a rather stiff batter, 2 tablespoons of lard, i level teaspoon of salt, 
2 rounding teaspoons baking powder; grease pan well. Cook in 
a quick oven, serve hot. 

Mrs. Jerome E. Landry 

BRAN MUFFINS. 

Two cups flour, pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons soda, 4 cups bran, 
2*/> cups milk, y cup molasses. Sift together flour, soda and salt, 
add bran, then milk and molasses. Beat thoroughly. Bake in 
gem pans. This makes 2 dozen. 

PLAIN MUFFINS. 

Six tablespoons melted Good Luck margerine; i egg; 1%. cup- 
fuls milk; 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; \V 2 cupfuls flour; 1-3 teaspoon- 
ful salt ; 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream together the mar- 
garine and sugar, and add the egg, well beaten. Sift together the 
flour, baking powder and salt, and add alternately to the mixture 
with the milk. Dispose in twelve muffin pans well oiled with 
Good Luck margarine and made hissing hot. Bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. 

THIN BISCUITS OR TEA WAFERS. 

Three cups flour; rounded tablespoonful butter; i egg, beaten 
light; i teaspoonful salt; rounded tablespoonful lard; i cup milk, 
with piece of ice in it. Work into smooth dough, make into balls 
about size of hickory nut, roll very thin, about size of a saucer, prick 
with fork and bake. Makes three or four dozens. 

Kingsley House Social Settlement. 

SIX-HOUR ROLLS. 

One quart of flour, one pint milk and one cake of compressed 
yeast. The milk should be warm. Into half the milk pour one 
tablespoonful of melted butter; into the other half of the milk put 
the yeast cake, when dissolved, put the milk all together. Sift a 
pint of flour into a bowl with a salt spoon of salt and a tablespoonful 
of sugar, pour into this the milk with its added ingredients, beat 
into a smooth batter, and then add enough flour to make stiff, light 
dough. Knead lightly and replace in the bowl, set to rise, grease 
the top of the mass with butter, keep in warm place covered with 
cloth. If the batter is made at ten o'clock, by one o'clock it should 
be ready for first working. Turn it out onto a well-floured board, 
knead thoroughly, roll again into a round mound and return to the 
bread bowl, by three o'clock it should be ready to form into rolls. 
Place the dough on well floured board, roll out about one inch thick, 
cut with large biscuit cutter, cut a slit on one side with sharp knife 

22 



so they will double over and place in layer cake pans, greased with 
lard. Brush the tops with melted butter, set to raise again ; when 
they feel bubbly to the touch, bake them in hot oven about twenty 
minutes. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

OLD FASHIONED RUSK. 

The making of Rusk is almost a lost art, preserved only among 
the cooks of the South. Here are directions for making delicious 
rusk, and failure is impossible if directions are followed : 

Dissolve a cake of compressed yeast in a gill of warm water. 
Sift a pint of flour in a large bowl, add a teaspoon of salt, and a 
pint of warm milk, stir well and add the melted yeast cake. Cover 
and set in warm place over night. In the morning beat to a cream 
a half cupful of butter, one cup granulated sugar and three eggs, 
and stir this mixture into the sponge, then sift in enough flour to 
make a soft dough ; put it out on a floured board, roll the dough to 
the thickness of half-inch, cut out with small biscuit cutter, put 
them in a baking pan greased with lard, and cover and let rise till 
spongy and light. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five min- 
utes. When removed from oven brush tops with a roll of paper 
dipped in milk, and sprinkle powdered sugar over them. Serve 
hot. Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

1, 2, 3, PIE CRUST (FINE). 

One cup flour; 3 tablespoons ice water; 2 rounding tablespoon- 
fuls lard or crisco ; salt to taste. Cut shortening into dry flour 
with knife or spoon, mix with the cold water and roll out quite thin. 
Enough for two under crusts. 

Mrs. R. J. Herring, Floyd, La. 
LEMON PIE (GOOD). 

Sufficient for two pies : 5 eggs, yolks and whites beaten sep- 
arately ; i tablespoonful butter; 2 tablespoonfuls corn starch, or 3 
of flour; 2 cups sugar; grated rind of I, and juice of 2 lemon?; i 
cup water. Beat yolks well, adding sugar and butter, then rind 
and lemon juice. Dissolve corn starch in little of water used, 
lastly beat in whipped egg whites. A part of beaten egg may be 
used for meringue, adding tablespoonful sugar to each white used. 

Mrs. R. J. Herring, Floyd, La. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Bake crust first. Dissolve one cake chocola-te in -}4 cup milk 
on stove. When boiled, add one teaspoonful corn starch. Take 
yolks of 2 eggs and mix with y^ cup sugar; beat whites and mix 
with yolks, then mix with chocolate. Put in crust and bake until 
stiff. Put whites of eggs on top. 

Mrs. Geo. R. Fisk, N. O. Woman's Club. 

MOLASSES PIE. 

One-half cup sugar, i cup molasses, 2 eggs, a small piece of 
butter, a little flour or cornstarch. Bake crust first. 

23 



BEEF STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. 

For one large pie, (deep dish), take 2 pounds good, juicy steak 
and one beef kidney. Cut in small pieces, about 2 inches square, 
stew until tender in cold water, just enough to cover; i medium- 
sized onion cut up, pepper and salt to taste. Put in dish and cover 
with crust made of ]/?. pound suet chopped fine and i pound flour, 
pinch of salt and l /2 teaspoon baking powder. Mix with water 
until a light paste to roll, not too dry. Or a good puff paste could 
be made. Crust made with suet must be eaten hot. 

LEMON PIE. 

Filling, for two pies : 5 tablespoonfuls sugar (granulated) ; 
4 eggs; l /2 teaspoonful cornstarch ; 3 good lemons; pint of milk. 
Grate the rind and add the juice of lemons, sugar and milk. Beat 
and add the yolks of the eggs ; make a thin paste of the cornstarch 
and add. Line two deep pie pans with a good pie crust and bake 
in moderate oven until done ; then have the whites of eggs whipped 
to a stiff froth, a little sugar added. Take the pie out of oven, 
add the whites of eggs and set back one minute, or until brown. 

Mrs. A. S. Phelps, N. O. F. C. 

APPLE PIE. 

Four apples, medium size; flavor with cinnamon, nutmeg or 
lemon juice; ]/ 2 cup sugar; i or 2 tablespoons water, if apples are 
not juicy. Pare, core and slice the apples. Line a plate with 
plain pastry. Sprinkle with bread crumbs. Lay In the apples, 
sprinkle with sugar and spices, if wanted. Cover with upper crust, 
slash and prick, and bake in moderate oven until the crust is brown 
and the fruit is soft. 

CHEESE PIE, OR KUCHEN. 

Two tablespoons butter, melt and add to cheese; i pound (i 
pint) cheese, press dry and put through colander; i cup sugar; i 
cup cream, beaten stiff; lemon rind or vanilla; 3 eggs, beaten sep- 
arately; i heaping tablespoonful cornstarch; juice of l /> lemon. 
Mix well and bake on cookie dough, or Kuchen dough, until a gold- 
en brown and well set in moderate oven from }<$ to i hour. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

i l /2 Cups scalded milk; 2 eggs; speck salt; 3 tablespoons sugar; 
a little nutmeg. Line a deep pie dish with pastry, pinch down the 
edges, and fill in the custard made as follows : Scald the milk and 
add it to the beaten eggs and sugar, and seasoning. Bake in a 
quick oven at first, then decrease the heat or it will curdle. 

PRUNE FILLING FOR PIE OR KUCHEN. 

One-half pound prunes ; l /2 cup sugar ; i tablespoonful lemon 
juice. Boil prunes; stone and run through colander. Mix and 
mash well with juice, add sugar to taste and flavor with lemon juice 
or rind or cinnamon. If used for pie, have upper crust or add 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored. 

24 



to' 



CHAPTER VI. 
EGGS, OMELET AND PANCAKES. 

MATZOS WITH SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Three whole eggs ; 6 matzos ; 4 tablespoons goose fat or oil ; 4 
tablespoons sugar. Break matzos in small pieces in colander. Pour 
boiling water through them, drain quickly. They should be moist 
but not soggy. Beat eggs well, fold the matzos in lightly. Heat 
the fat in a spider, add the egg mixture; scrape and scramble care- 
fully with spoon from the bottom of the pan and while scrambling 
add sugar and cook gently until eggs are set. Serve at once. 

BAKED EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Six eggs; 6 tablespoons grated cheese, (American) ; 6 teaspoons 
butter; YZ teaspoon salt; l /+ teaspoon paprika. Butter 6 ramikins 
and drop a whole egg in each, add salt and paprika, a teaspoon but- 
ter and cover with a tablespoon of cheese. Place ramikin in a 
pan of hot water (V^-inch deep) and bake until the eggs are set. 
Place under flame and brown quickly. 

CREOLE EGGS. 

One tablespoon chopped onion ; i tablespoon green peppers ; i 
tablespoon butter; i small can mushrooms; i cup tomato, strained; 
i tablespoon capers; 6 eggs; toast. Let onions and pepper simmer 
a few minutes in the butter, add the mushrooms, capers and tomato 
liquid, heat through. Beat the whole eggs well and cook with the 
other ingredients, stirring constantly until the eggs are well scram- 
bled. Serve on toast. 

OMELET. 

Three eggs beaten separately ; add to yolks pinch of salt ; i 
drop Tabasco pepper sauce ; full teaspoon of flour mixed in well ; 
half cup sweet milk, then add the whites which have betn beaten to 
a stiff froth. Pour into buttered pans (not too hot), and brown 
in oven. 

K. L. Anderson, N. O. F. C. 

PLAIN CHEAP OMELET. 

Three eggs, beaten with spoon only long enough to thoroughly 
mix whites and yolks; add 3 tablespoonfuls-of boiling water; have 
a skillet very hot with a teaspoonful of lard or oil, in which pour 
the beaten eggs after water has been added. When omelet is set, 
sprinkle on it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, then turn it over 
and let it reach a golden brown on both sides ; place on serving dish 
and season with salt and pepper to taste. 

Mrs. O. V. Waggner, Pres. Gretna Civic League. 

25 



STUFFED EGGS. WITH SARDINES. 

Boil hard 12 eggs, mash the yolks fine; mash contents of I can 
sardines and mix with the yolks. Fill the halves with this mixture 
and put together to look like whole egg; serve on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. C. J. Altman, Fin.-Sec., N. O. F. C. 

FAVORITE EGGS. 

Three eggs ; l / 2 teaspoonful salt ; i cup milk ; pepper to taste. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, then add milk and seasoning. Cook in 
double boiler 15 minutes, or until a knife will come out clean. Turn 
out as an omelette, or break up with fork and serve on buttered 
toast. 

M. C. Walker, Baldwin, La.. 

EGG APPETIZER. 

Allow i}/2 eggs for each person: Hard boil eggs; put them 
through a fruit press or colander, then pack this in after coffee cups 
or any mould one may have ; turn out on lettuce leaf. Before serv- 
ing to table, prepare this sauce and put 2 tablespoons of it on each 
portion. Sauce: One finely chopped green pepper, pepper sauce; 
tomato catsup; salt, pepper; l /> onion; mayonnaise; Worcestershire 
sauce. 

Mrs. S. Lichenstein. 

"A man can only find real delight in one wife."- Hebrew. 

BREAD OMELET. 

Two tablespoons bread crumbs ; i speck of salt ; I speck of 
pepper; 2 tablespoons milk; i egg; l / 2 teaspoon butter. Soak the 
bread crumbs in the milk for fifteen minutes, then add the salt and 
pepper. Separate the whites and yolks of the egg and beat until 
light. Turn in the heated buttered pan and cook until set. Fold 
and turn on heated dish. 

FRENCH PANCAKE. 

Three eggs separated; y^ cup flour; l / 2 teaspoon salt; i cup 
cold water. Stir yolks with the salt and flour until smooth, add 
milk gradually, then fold in the beaten whites. Heat pan, add 2 
tablespoons butter and when hot, nour in pancake ; let cook slowly 
and evenly on one side, finish baking in oven. 

GERMAN PANCAKE. 

Two eggs; i cup milk; y 2 teaspoon salt; 2 l / 2 teaspoons flour; 
2 tablespoons butter. Beat eggs very thoroughly without separ- 
ating the yolks and whites ; add salt, sift in the flour, add the milk 
gradually at first and beat the whole very well. Melt i tablespoon 
butter in a large frying pan, turn mixture in and cook slowly until 
brown underneath. Grease the bottom of a large pie plate, slip 
the pancake on the plate ; add the other tablespoon of butter to the 

26 



frying pan, when hot, turn uncooked side of pancake down and 
brown. Serve at once with sugar and lemon slices or with any 
desired preserve or syrup. Or, when the pancake is nicely browned 
on the one side, the remaining tablespoon of butter may be heated 
in another spider and the uncooked side of the pancake turned down 
to brown slowly on this frying pan. Slip carefully on large plat- 
ter and serve at once. 

MATZOS MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One-half cup Matzo meal ; i teaspoon salt ; i tablespoon sugar ; 
I cup milk or water ; 2 eggs, separated. Mix ingredients. Beat 
yolks of eggs, add milk and combine the two mixtures, and lastly 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Heat grjddle, grease with 
any desired fat. Pour cakes on the griddle from the end of a large 
spoon. When cakes are full of bubbles, and brown on one side, 
turn with a broad knife and brown the other side. Serve with 
sugar or sugar syrup. 

MATZOS PANCAKES. 

Three or 4 eggs; }/2 teaspoon salt; dash of pepper; i l /> cups 
water ; % cup Matzo meal ; 2 tablespoons goose fat or oil. Pour 
water on Matzos meal, let stand 15 minutes to swell. Beat the 
eggs, add salt and pepper, heat fat in spider, drop by spoonfuls in 
small cakes, and fry brown, turn and bro\vn on the other side. 
Serve with raspberry jelly. Left over pancakes may be cut into 
noodles and served in soup. 

MATZOS FRITTERS. 

Two matzos ; 2 tablespoons fat ; i egg yolk, beaten ; i table- 
spoon sugar; i cup milk; i beaten white of egg; ^ cup matzos 
meal for thin batter. Mix the pancake batter of the five last in- 
gredients, in the order given. Let water just run over the matzos, 
then place in oven for a minute. Heat the fat in the spider, spread 
one side of matzos with batter and fry, batter side down until 
nicely browned. Spread other side and brown. Serve hot, sprink- 
led with powdered sugar. 



27 



CHAPTER VII. 

"Is there any harmony of tints that has such stirrings of delight 
As the sweet modulations of a woman's voice?" George Eliot. 

SOUPS. 
CONSOMME. 

Five pounds shin bone; 4 pounds lean beef; i carrot, cut; i po- 
tato, cut; 1-16 teaspoon red pepper; l / 4 cup celery, cut; i small on- 
ion, sliced; I bay leaf; chicken bones, or cold left over chicken; 4 
quarts water. Place meat and bone in soup kettle, add the cold 
water, let stand i hour. Let slowly come to the boiling point and 
simmer slowly 4 or more hours. Add vegetables, boil I hour long- 
er. Strain all through a sieve and season when cold ; skim off fat. 
serve hot. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Three to 4 pounds chicken; 3 to 4 quarts water; i tablespoon 
salt; i onion; 2 stalks celery, or ;4 cup celery root, diced; *4 tea- 
spoon pepper; 1-8 teaspoon nutmeg. Select an old hen. Singe, 
clean and joint; then salt and let stand several hours overnight. 
Put on to boil in cold water and let it come to a boil quickly. Skim 
thoroughly if you want a clear soup. Let simmer slowly 3 or more 
hours, add the vegetables, boil i hour longer, strain, remove fat an'd 
add seasoning to taste. Take out the chicken before it falls to 
pieces and use for salads, croquettes or with brown sauce. Serve 
soup hot with noodles, or almost any of the soup garnishings. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

Two quarts soup stock; l / 2 cup pearl barley; i quart boiling 
water; i teaspoon salt; 1-8 teaspoon pepper; i cup croutons. 
Wash barley in cold water and then cook in i quart of boiling salted 
water until tender, 2 hours or more. When water has evaporated 
add soup stock. If you are making fresh soup, keep adding the 
"top soup," strained, to the barley and let boil until tender; l /z cup 
celery root or stalks, and l /2 cup carrots, diced, boiled with the bar- 
ley improves the flavor. Serve hot with croutons. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Three potatoes (cut small); 2 teaspoons chopped onions; l /2 
teaspoon salt; i quart boiling water; 2 teaspoons chopped celery; 
2 teaspoons parsley (chopped fine) ; 2 tablespoons butter ; i table- 
spoon flour; 1-8 teaspoon white pepper. Heat i tablespoon but- 
ter, add the onions and celery, and let simmer TO minutes. Add 
potato, cover and cook 2 minutes. Add the water and boil one 
hour. Add more boiling water as it evaporates. Kind the re- 
maining flour and butter, add some potato liquid and cook. Com- 
bine the mixture and serve hot with croutons. Any cold cooked 
vegetables, left over, may be added. 

28 



CREAM OF OYSTER SOUP. 

One pint of oysters; l / 2 cup cold water; i cup white sauce; salt 
and pepper to taste. Wash oysters with l / 2 cup cold water, through 
colander, remove any bits of shell ; reserve the liquid ; heat gradu- 
ally to the boiling point; let oysters simmer until they look plump 
and the edges curl; drain and skim the liquid. Make a white 
sauce, add the hot strained oyster liquid, salt and pepper to taste 
and cook until smooth. Add the oysters and serve hot with oys- 
ter crackers toasted in the oven just a few minutes. 

CROUTONS FOR SOUP. 

In the Oven : Cut stale bread into cubes, place in pan and 
brown in the oven ; or butter the bread, cut into cubes and then 
brown the same way. 

To Fry : Cook small cubes of stale bread in deep hot fat until 
brown or cook them in a little butter or fat in a hot spider until 
brown. 

"The mind is the monarch that leads in the fray, 
And victory follows to lighten the way, 
Her mind, heart and soul are the banners unfurled, 
Which are to make better and raise the whole world." 

MATZOS MEAL NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Two eggs; 1-8 teaspoon salt; 2 tablespoons matzos meal, or 
potato flour. Add salt to egg, beat slightly, stir in matzos meal 
or potato flour. Heat a little fat in spicier, pour in egg mixture; 
when cooked on one side turn on the other. Roll the pancake and 
cut into noodles 1-8 inch wide. Drop into boiling soup before 
serving. 

BAKING POWDER DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

One cup flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder; l / teaspoon salt; 
YZ cup milk or water, scant. Sift dry ingredients, stir in the milk 
or water and mix to smooth batter. Drop a teaspoonful at a time 
in the boiling soup ; cover kettle, let boil 5 minutes and serve at once. 

DROP DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP. 

Three eggs; ^ cup milk; 2 tablespoons butter; i cup flour; Y* 
teaspoon salt; 1-16 teaspoon pepper; a nutmeg grated. Break the 
whites of the egg into a cup and add enough milk to fill cup; mix 
with the butter and flour in a spider and stir as it boils until it 
leaves the spider clean. When cool stir in the yolks well and sea- 
son to taste. Drop from teaspoon into boiling soup 5 minutes be- 
fore serving. 

CRACKER BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Six tablespoons cracker crumbs; i egg; 2 tablesnoons butter or 
fat; i teaspoon chopped parsley; i tablespoon milk or soup; 1-8 
teaspoon salt; nutmeg, ginger and pepper to taste. Stir butter 
with the egg, add the seasoning, liquid and enough meal to shape 
into small balls. Drop into boiling soup 10 minutes before serving. 

29 



CREOLE CORN SOUP. 

The ingredients required are : One pound of salt pork ; i doz- 
en medium sized ears of corn ; I small onion ; i tablespoonful of 
lard or cooking oil; i heaping tablespoonful of flour; parsley, gar- 
lic and red pepper as desired. Brown the salt pork well in the 
hot lard or oil, then remove from the pot and set aside. Brown 
one finely cut onion in the same fat. When the onion is well- 
browned, add the flour to form a roux. Have the corn prepared 
by splitting the grains lengthwise and then cutting from cob. Add 
the corn to the roux and allow it to fry until tender, stirring con- 
stantly. Add parsley, garlic and pepper and salt to taste. Then 
thin with about a quart of boiling water, (more if necessary). Re- 
place salt pork, cover and stand on a slow fire to simmer until meat 
is thoroughly cooked. 

Mrs. O. V. Waggner, Pres. Gretna Civic League. 

OKRA GUMBO. 

Slice okra, fry in hot lard until it is not slimy ; fry tomatoes, 
crabs, raw ham, chicken and veal stew. When each has been well 
fried, add hot water to form a soup, season with salt, black pepper 
and red pepper. McDonogh No. n Co-operative Club. 

OLD FASHIONED CREOLE FILE GUMBO. 

One slice of ham, i pound shrimp, 2^ dozen oysters, l / 2 can 
(small) tomatoes; i small onion; i pod garlic; i sprig parsley. 
Fry ham, onions and garlic together, add shrimp water after they 
have been scalded, also tomatoes ; let boil about YZ hour, then add 
oysters and liquor, let come to a boil, add tablespoon file and let 
boil but once ; take off the fire and serve with boiled rice. You 
can substitute spring chicken or poule d'eau instead of shrimp. 

GUMBO JOSEPHINE. 

Hard shell crabs mashed fine, sliced okra, tomatoes, eggs, car- 
rots, turnips and onions, bay leaf and thyme. Clarify the same as 
consomme ; garnish for gumbo, lake shrimps, oysters, crab meat, 
tomatoes, okra ; boiled Louisiana rice. The consomme must cook 
four hours. 

NEW ORLEANS CRAB GUMBO. 
(Serve 8 or 10 People) 

One-quarter pound bacon (cut in small cubes), i large onion, 
(cut fine), i slice ham, (% pound cut in small cubes), 5 or 6 young 
okra pods, i can (large) or l / 2 dozen fresh tomatoes, 6 or 8 crabs, 
i pound shrimps (large, l /> gallon boiling water, 2 bay leaves, 2 
sprigs thyme, i pod red pepper, 2 sprigs parsley, salt to taste. 
Fry bacon golden brown, add onion, then ham and okra pods which 
have been washed and finely cut. let simmer about 15 minutes, stir- 
ring often. Then add tomatoes, crabs and shrimps which have 
been previously washed, then add water, thyme, bay leaf, parsley, 
pepper, and lastly salt. Let simmer 2 or 2 l / 2 hours. Serve with 
boiled rice. Mae E. Seiler. 

30 



TURTLE SOUP. 

Into a well-heated pan put a tablespoon of grease ; brown two 
large onions chopped fine, then challots, parsley and half box of 
tomatoes; I pound turtle. Brown a small cup flour in a dry skil- 
let, when turtle cooks for ten minutes, add flour and a quart <>r 
more of hot water; then add bay leaf, thyme (whole allspice), 
cloves, black and red pepper; tie seasoning in a thin cloth and put 
in soup. Let boil slowly for two hours ; keep scraped from bot- 
tom of pot. Put in soup tureen I hard-boiled egg cut in quarters, 
l /2 sliced lemon, I teacup claret wine ; pour soup over this when 
ready to serve. 

Mrs. Ferdinand Kaufman, 4221 St. Charles Ave. 

"Prudent men choose frugal wives." 

MATZO BALLS. 

Beat yolks of 2 eggs lightly with one spoonful of chicken 
grease. Butter can also be used. Stir in sufficient Mazo meal, 
(sifted) until a smooth batter is obtained, then stir in beaten whites; 
add a pinch of salt. Take a portion of soup stock and boil balls 
for soup y\ hour before ready for serving. Then pour in with the 
rest of soup ; if not boiled sufficiently, will be hard and tasteless. 
Mrs. C. J. Altman, 4223 St. Charles Ave., N. O., La. 

MARROW BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Take marrows out of beef bones; mash marrow well, adding 
a pinch of salt. Mix in well V 2 cup of grated bread, yolk of one 
egg, parsley chopped fine, thyme and grate in a little nutmeg; roll 
in small balls, dipping the hand in flour to roll balls. Strain soup, 
place soup back until it boils, then drop in slowly the marrow balsl. 
Boil ten minutes, leaving cover off soup pot. 

Mrs. J. Stechman, McDonogh No. n Co-operative Club. 

RED BEAN SOUP. 

Two cups cooked, mashed red beans, Vz cup of tomato ketchup, 
r tablespoon sherry. 



31 



CHAPTER VIII. 

SAUCES. 
PARSLEY BUTTER. 

One tablespoon butter; i teaspoon minced parsley; i teaspoon 
lemon juice; *4 teaspoon salt; a few grains pepper. Rub butter 
to a cream, add salt, pepper, parsley and lemon juice. Spread over 
hot broiled fish or steak. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Half cup butter; 2 eggs (yolks); i tablespoon lemon juice; a 
few grains cayenne pepper ; *4 teaspoon salt ; y 2 cup boiling water. 
With a wooden or silver spoon rub the butter to a cream, add the 
yolks one at a time. Beat well, add the lemon juice, salt and pep- 
per. About 5 minutes before serving add the boiling water. 

TARTAR SAUCE. 

One cup mayonnaise dressing; i tablespoon chopped capers; 

1 tablespoon tarragon vinegar; i tablespoon chopped olives; i ta- 
blespoon cucumber pickles. Make any desired mayonnaise, and 
add to it the rest of the ingredients. Serve cold with fish or cold 
meat dishes. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Two tablespoons butter; % teaspoon onion juice; 2 tablespoons 
flour; l / 2 cup water; i cup strained tomato; i teaspoon salt; speck 
pepper. Heat the butter, remove from the fire, stir in the flour. 
Add the water, stir well, add the tomato, the onion juice, salt and 
pepper, boil 5 minutes. Serve hot with boiled macaroni, or with 
boiled or baked meat, or with baked eggs or fish. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Six hard cooked eggs, riced ; i cup cream; i tablespoon butter; 
a little grated nutmeg; 4 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. Place 
the first 4 ingredients in top of double boiler, let cook 15 or 20 min- 
utes. Remove from fire, add parsley and pour hot over cauliflow- 
er, asparagus or fish. 

NEWBURG SAUCE FOR FISH OR LOBSTER. 

Four or 5 yolks; 3 tablespoons sherry; i cup milk; i cup of 
cream; salt and pepper to taste. Beat the yolks until very light, 
add the rest of the ingredients and cook over boiling water, until 4 
thick and smooth, stirring constantly. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Two tablespoons fat ; \/\ onion, cut fine ; 2 tablespoons flour or 
cracker meal; 3 tablespoons grated horseradish; 2 tablespoons vin- 
egar; 2 cloves; 2 bay leaves ^2 teaspoon salt; 1-8 teaspoon pepper; 

2 tablespoons sugar; i cup soup stock or water. Fry the onion 
in the fat until brown, add the cracker meal and horseradish and 
gradually the hot soup stock and when smooth, the other ingredi- 
ents. Cook 5 minutes more and if desired, add more horseradish, 
sugar or vinegar. Or, add the horseradish, vinegar, salt, pepper 
and sugar to white sauce. Serve hot with soup meat. 



CHAPTER IX. 

'The silvery fish, fresh from the wave 
Now cheers our festive hoard." 

FISH. 
GENERAL RULE. 

Fish must be perfectly fresh and should' be kept in a cool place 
until cooked. Do not put in refrigerator on account of odor. The 
flesh should be firm and the eyes bright, the gills bright red. Fish 
is less stimulating and nourishing than the meat of other animals, 
but is easier of digestion. 

To Scale Fish : Use fish-sealer, ordinary grater or knife. Be- 
gin at tail end and go toward head, slanting the knife toward you 
to prevent scales from flying. Rinse and cleanse thoroughly in 
cold water. Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper, to preserve it and 
improve the flavor. 

The head and tail may be removed. Dry fish need butter 
rubbed over them before broiling. When fish is cooked the flesh 
separates from the bone. It can be served hot or cold with a 
sauce or garnished with lemon, hard cooked eggs or parsley. Cold 
cooked fish may be used in various ways, as creamed, scalloped, etc. 

BOILED FISH. 

Two large onions ; I pod red pepper ; 3 cloves ; I pod garlic ; 3 
bay leaves ; parsley, sprig of thyme, salt and black pepper, used to 
season water which should be boiled thirty minutes. Fish should 
be carefully cleansed, salted, tied in a napkin, and placed in boiling 
water, allowing ten minutes of actual boiling to each pound of fish. 
Serve with drawn butter and minced parsley as a sauce. 

Mrs. C. M. Eustis, Past Pres. High School Alumnae. 

BOILED GREEN TROUT. 

Wrap fish in a towel, or place in a fish boiler in well seasoned 
water, containing onions, thyme, bay leaf, salt and black pepper; 
boil about fifteen minutes and serve with drawn butter and very 
fine chopped parsley. 

Mrs. J. Stechman, 
McDonogh No. 11 Co-operative Club. 

BROILED FISH. 

In broiling fish, rub vinegar on fish before placing fish on bro 1 !- 
er. Salt and pepper fish and place on well greased broiler. Broil <! 
fish served with melted butter and fine chopped parsley and the 
dish garnished with lettuce and sliced lemon, is quite appetizing 
and relishable. 

Mrs. J. Stechman, 
McDonogh No. n Co-operative Club. 

33 



RED FISH COURTBOUILLON. 

Four pounds of red fish, or any firm fish, cut into slices : Place 
a large pot on fire in which have a cooking spoonful of lard or oil; 
fry the fish in this a golden brown, and remove from the pot ; into 
this grease place a small onion, chopped fine, a half dozen large 
tomatoes, fry together till it forms a paste ; put into this a mixture 
of parsley, eschalotte, red pepper, thyme and one sweet pepper 
with seeds removed and one clove of garlic chopped fine; add this 
to the roux, then add ^ pint of boiling water; replace the pieces 
of fried fish, salt to taste, cover pot and cook ten minutes. Toast 
6 slices of bread ; place on large serving dish ; place pieces of fish 
on the toast, pour the gravy over this, garnish with slices of lemon. 
Mrs. O. V. Waggner, Pres. Gretna Civic League. 

SWEET AND SOUR FISH. 

Get a red snapper, sliced. To make gravy : Put in 3 cups of 
water, a large onion cut round, l /> lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
YZ teaspoon salt, l /\. teaspoon black pepper, ( l / 2 cup raisins). Brown 
i tablespoonful sugar in iron skillet, put in gravy, then add fish, let 
cook till tender; thicken gravy with i tablespoonful flour dissolved 
in water. 

Mrs. Ferd Kaufman, 4221 St. Charles Ave. 

HADDIE HASH. 

Pick up any left-over finnan hadclie, being particular to remove 
every bit of bone. Have ready twice the amount of fish in boiled 
potatoes, chopped fine, mix well, add a cup of milk, a little onion 
juice and parsley to season, with a few bits of red pepper. Put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan. add the fish and toss until 
well browned. Serve hot. 

"A virtuous woman, though ugly, is the ornament of the house." 



STUFFED CRABS. 

Boil six large crabs, remove the meat, and chop it with a me- 
dium sized onion, parsley, red pepper, salt to taste, and a cupful 
of grated toast crumbs, place in a frying pan into which a half tea- 
spoonful each of butter and lard has been made very hot, cook until 
the particles of onion are cooked then add two eggs that hn\e 
been beaten to a froth, stirring constantly to distribute thoroughly, 
remove from fire, add a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, fill 
the empty crab shells with this mixture, place a lump of butter on 
top of each, sprinkle lightly with toast crumbs, and bake about ten 
minutes just before ready to serve. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

34 



CRAB BISQUE, No. 2. 

One dozen large crabs, boiled; i small head of celery; i onion; 
~/2 bunch parsley; i cup soaked bread; i small head garlic; 3 sprigs 
of thyme. Pick crawfish, chop all seasoning together with the tails. 
Fry all together in half butter and lard ; then stuff heads with same. 
Put saucepan with half butter and lard, small portion of shallot 
onions, garlic, parsley and thyme to fry, add six cups of water, 
heads of crawfish, 3 boiled eggs sliced fine and 2 pieces of lemon. 
Boil one hour. 

P. S. This is a fine Crab Bisque, if minced crab meat is added 
instead of crawfish heads stuffed. 

Mrs. F. H. Rice, Alden Sunshiners. 

CRAB LAILLEE. 

(Service for Six People) 

One dozen blue crabs; i can tomato paste; 2 ounces lard; 3 
onions; i herb bouquet; i can tomatoes; ^ pint olive oil; i gill 
flour; i pod garlic; salt and peper to taste. Time one hour and 
a half. Scald, shell and cleanse crabs thoroughly, reserving for 
cooking only the bodies and great claws ; crack the latter with nut 
crackers. Save all fat, eggs and liquid in shells. Heat lard and 
oil together in deep iron skillet ; fry crab bodies and claws to a light 
golden brown. Remove from fire, add flour to boiling grease in 
skillet, brown very lightly; then add onions, garlic and parsley all 
chopped fine. 

Cook slowly, so as not to darken flour ; add tomato paste and 
potatoes, cook a few minutes ; pour in sufficient water to keep from 
burning and stir constantly; sufficient water to fill pot half full 
should be added and the mixture allowed to boil hard a few minutes. 
The crabs, eggs, fat, etc., may now be put in seasoning with herb 
bouquet. Two or three whole cloves may be edded, if desired. 
Salt and red pepper to taste, using enough pepper to make the dish 
piquant. Let simmer slowly, adding water occasionally, so that 
crabs may be at all times just covered. When cooked the gravy 
should be smooth, almost creamy in consistency and in color nearly 
that known as crushed strawberry. Serve with rice. 

Rubie G. Eustis, N. O. F. C. 

DEVILED OR BAKED CRABS. 

Half dozen crabs boiled and minced ; breadcrumbs ; small por- 
tion celeray; garlic, onion, sage, and spices; pepper and salt to taste. 
Mix all together, place in shell and bake, cover top with cracker 
crumbs and bits of butter. 

Mrs. F. H. Rice, Equal Rights T'arty. 

"A woman either loves or hates, there is no third part." - Syru-. 

35 



CREOLE JAMBALAYA. 

Two dozen large shrimps ; i slice ham (diced) ; 4 garlic ; 8 
sprigs parsley ; i small can tomatoes ; 2 dozen large oysters ; i onion ; 
3 sprigs thyme ; 3 cups head rice. Chop all seasoning very fine ; 
put in saucepan 2 spoons lard, ham, shrimp and seasoning to brown, 
then add oysters and liquor, rice, coloring pepper, salt and pepper 
to taste; cover rice 2 inches of water; cook till dry and rice is done. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

CRAB GUMEO. 

One dozen crabs, one large onion, one pint of okra, one slice 
of ham, cut into dice, one can of tomatoes, two large cooking spoon- 
fuls of flour, one large cooking spoonful of lard ; scald and clean 
the crabs, but do not boil them. 

Place the lard in an iron stew pan, when boiling hot put in the 
ham, brown it and then add the onion sliced thin, brown carefully, 
then add the flour, being sure to get it very brown, then add the 
tomatoes, a quart of boiling water, to thin, and then transfer all 
to a granite pot, next add the crabs, and lastly the okra ; boil not 
less than an hour, season with salt and red pepper, salt during the 
last fifteen minutes of cooking as salt tends to darken the okra. 
The use of a granite pot is advised as it will keep the gumbo an 
inviting color ; serve with rice. To boil the rice Southern style, 
wash in three waters, one and a half cupfuls of best head rice, place 
in saucepan with level teaspoon of salt and three cupfuls of boil- 
ing water, boil slowly, allowing time to swell, when half cooked, 
turn the top under carefully with a fork so as not to make it into a 
mass, thus the rice will be thoroughly cooked. 

Mrs. F. H. Rice, The Bluebirds. 

SHRIMP A LA CREOLE. 

One pound shrimp; 2 large tomatoes; 3 tablespoonfuls flour; 
i medium-sized onion ; 2 tablespoonfuls lard ; 2 cupfuls boiling wa- 
ter. Heat lard, add onion sliced thin, then add flour and brown; 
then add tomatoes cut fine, then add the water and lastly the shrimp. 
after shelling them. Season with salt, pepper, red pepper, pars- 
ley ; boil about twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Maude L. Daly. 

RIVER SHRIMP IN JELLY. 

Make a jelly from heads of fish, decorate bottom of mold, place 
peeled river shrimp in mould, pour dissolved jelly over shrimps, 
let set one hour in ice box. Jelly must be clarified same as Aspic 
jelly, same ingredients are used, the only difference is that a little 
white wine and lemon juice are used. 

-36- 



CRAWFISH BISQUE, No. 1. 

One dozen large crawfish boiled ; i small head of celery ; i on- 
ion; l / 2 bunch of parsley; i cup soaked bread; i small head of garlic; 
3 sprigs of thyme; salt and pepper to taste. Pick crawfish, chop 
all seasoning together with crawfish tails, clean heads, stuff as 
much as each head will hold. Put in a saucepan lump of butter 
size of egg, a little flour to brown, and six cups of water. Add 
heads and let boil one hour slowly. 

Mrs. F. H. Rice, McDonogh No. u Club. 

CRAWFISH BISQUE, No. 2. 

Wash the crawfish and cover with water to boil ; when cold, 
pick out the meat and chop it very fine. Fry minced onions and 
parsley and thyme; add head (that has been soaked in water, and 
squeezed dry), also the crawfish meat, season, add an egg and put 
dressing in the heads. Now put a piece of brisket in the water 
that the crawfish were boiled in, and let it boil two hours. Brown 
a little flour, add to broth. A half-hour before serving, add the 
stuffed heads; leave a little dressing in the broth as it adds to the 
flavor of the soup. 

Mrs. J. Michealis, 2nd Vice-Pres. City Federation. 

OYSTER JAMBALAYA. 

Two cups of rice washed in several waters, one tablespoon of 
cottolene or any fat, a little minced onion and parsley, 2 dozen oys- 
ters or more. Fry the raw rice and onion until brown, stir con- 
stantly, season highly with red pepper and salt ; when brown, add 
liquor of oysters, a cup or more. Cover, set back of stove and 
stir occasionally, add more water if it becomes dry; when .rice is 
tender, add oysters and parsley and let cook for 20 minutes. Serve 
hot. Shrimp, Kocher sausage, veal or chicken, all may be used. 
A good left-over dish. 

Mrs. H. Joyar, Lafayette. La. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Boil four dozen oysters in their own juice, prepare a dozen 
slices of toast. Make a cream sauce of three tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, three tablespoonfuls of flour, blend well, put on fire to boil a 
pint of cow's milk or Pet cream may be used, adding water to 
make a pint, stir a small quantity of the warm milk with the butter 
and flour to thin it before adding it to the boiling milk, stir and 
watch carefully to keep from scorching, when thick and smooth , 
add a cup of the oyster juice, put an equal number of oysters on 
each slice of toast, and cover with the cream sauce. Delicious 
supper dish. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

37 



STEWED OYSTERS. 

Place two tablespoonfuls of lard or oil in a stewpan, and when 
hot, add a medium-sized onion ; brown the onion and four table- 
spoonfuls of flour, add one cup boiling water; then add two dozen 
fine oysters and then juice. Boil until the edges of the oysters 
curl. Serve hot. Fine supper dish. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

OYSTERS ROASTED IN SHELL. 

Wash the shells clean and wipe dry. Place in a baking pan 
and put in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve on a hot dish 
the moment they are out of the oven. Season with butter, lemon, 
pepper and salt. This is not a fancy dish, yet, it is one of the 
finest ways to eat oysters. 

Mrs. J. Michaelis. 

OYSTERS A LA DIABLE. 

Two dozen large oysters, quartered ; 3 chives ; thyme, black 
pepper, salt, a pod of garlic; i egg; 3 onions; i red pepper; juice 
and grated rind ow one lemon ; i loaf of stale bread.. Seasoning 
to be chopped very fine, blended with bread crumbs moistened with 
oyster water; oysters to be mixed in with bread crumbs and the 
mixture fried in bacon drippings until well cooked. Serve in 
shells, sprinkle with bread crumbs and a bit of butter, after lightly 
browning in oven. 

Mrs. C. M. Eustis, 
Treas., N. O. Woman's Club. 



-38- 



CHAPTER X. 
MEAT. 

CREAMED MEAT. 

One pound of ground meat; 2 small onions, chopped fine, 
thyme, parsley, salt and pepper; i cup of milk; i tablespoon flour; 
i tablespoon of lard and butter mixed. Fry meat after it is sea- 
soned slowly, then add onion and flour. Let cook a few minutes; 
pour milk gradually. Cook on a slow fire 30 minutes. Serve on 
toast. 

Mrs. J. Robt. Lusher. 

PIGS IN A BLANKET. 

One round steak of i}/2 or 2 pounds; 5 or 6 slices of bacon; l / 2 
cup tomatoes; i onion. I prefer i l / 2 pounds steak, as then I do 
not find it too thick to roll. Trim all unnecessary skin from it ; 
cut it in pieces about 3 inches square. Have your bacon sliced 
about l /2 inch thick, and your onion cut in dices. Place a slice of 
bacon and a pinch of onion on each slice of meat ; roll and hold to- 
gether with toothpicks. Dip each roll in flour, brown nicely on 
both sides in a little hot lard. Add salt, pepper, a sprig of thyme, 
bay leaf, clove and V 2 cup of tomatoes. Add sufficient boiling wa- 
ter to make your gravy. Simmer for l / 2 hour. 

Mrs. Wm. Arndt, 
McDonogh School Co-operative Club. 

SOUR BEEF DAUBE. 

Place meat a cut from the shoulder being preferable in a 
bowl, cover with vinegar; add onions, thyme, allspice, bay leaf, 
salt and pepper. Let the meat remain in vinegar two clays. Brown 
meat well on both sides, cover the meat while frying, add kitchen 
spoon of flour, let it brown, then add onions, thyme, etc., that was 
in the vinegar. Let all brown well, then add water to cover meat, 
also add in the vinegar. Boil slowly until meat is tender. Serve 
with home-made noodles. 

ROUND STEAK PAN-BROILED. 

Have a slice of round steak -)4 inch thick. Wipe and trim off 
extra fat. Heat an iron frying pan blue hot, grease lightly with 
the fat scraps and put steak into it. Count 60, turn and let brown 
on under side; when brown on both sides, half cover with boiling 
water, cover frying pan with a heavy cover and let simmer for from 
20 to 30 minutes. Uncover, season with 2 tablespoons butter or 
fat, salt and peper, and serve on a hot platter. 

39 



HAMBERG STEAK. 

One pound round steak ; i tablespoon drippings ; I teaspoon 
chopped onions; salt and pepper. Take one pound of raw flank 
or round steak. Salt and prepare as desired. Cut off fat, bone 
and stringy pieces. Chop it very fine. Chop onions very fine 
and mix with meat. Season to taste. Make into round cakes a 
little less than >j inch thick. Heat pan blue hot, grease lightly ; 
add cakes, count 60, then turn and cook on other side until brown. 
When well browned they are done if liked rare. Cook 10 minutes 
if liked well done. 

VIENNA ROAST BEEF. 

Prepare and season meat with salt and paprika, to taste. Slice 
i medium onion and fry a golden brown in 2 tablespoons of any 
desired fat in deep iron spider, add the meat, dredged with flour, 
place in a very hot oven, that the surface may be quickly browned, 
then reduce heat. Add i cup vegetable stock (recipe below). 
Cover tightly and when meat is tender, add cooked vegetables, and 
thicken the gravy with 2 rolled ginger snaps, 3 tablespoons sweet 
cream and one tablespoon tomato juice,, stirring until smooth. 
Vegetable Stock : Cook y, cup raw diced turnips, carrots, celery 
and parsley root in i quart boiling water until tender, and the liquor 
is reduced to i cup, strain. 

STEWED MUTTON. 

Prepare and season to taste, remove the pink skin and extra 
fat, and put into boiling water. Boil 15 minutes, push kettle back, 
and allow the meat to cook slowly until tender, 15 minutes for each 
pound. A carrot diced and cooked with the meat improves the 
flavor. Serve meat with a border of baking powder biscuits, split 
in halves, and pour all over the top the following gravy. ( \ny 
tough meat is nice prepared in this way). 

Gravy For Mutton : To each cup of meat stock add 2 table- 
spoons flour, moistened with a little cold water and stir until smooth 
and thick like cream, pour it slowly in the boiling stock, stirring all 
the time. Boil until thoroughly cooked. Add salt and pepper to 
taste, and just before serving, add one teaspoon chopped parsley. 

BAKED HAM. 

Scrape and wash a whole ham, make a thick paste of flour and 
water, and spread thickly all over ham, place in pan with the rind 
downwards, bake in moderate oven for two hours, if ham weighs 
not over eight pounds, three hours if ham weighs twelve pounds. 
The ham will tear from the rind when removing from pan, remove 
the brown flour crust. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

40 



STEWED TRIPE. 

Wash carefully I pound tripe that has not been pickled, and 
cut into inch squares. Put it into a stew pan with y teaspoon 
each of salt, sugar and prepared mustard, with water enough to 
cover, about I pint. Boil up and skim carefully, then set back to 
simmer for 3 hours, watching closely lest it stick to the bottom of 
the pan and skim if necessary. Mix tablespoon flour with a little 
cold water, stir it in, simmer y hour longer, and serve with more 
seasoning, if desired. 

Or, one hour before serving, cook 6 medium sized onions y 2 
hour. Drain and slice them and put them into a dry frying pan 
with 2 tablespoons of fat. Season with I teaspoon each of salt, 
sugar, dry mustard, a little white pepper and nutmeg; cook until 
golden brown and pour over tripe ; thicken with flour. 

''All other good by Fortune's hand is given, 
A wife is the peculiar gift of heaven."- -Pope. 

Veal is the meat from the calf and is less nourishing than beef 
or mutton. The muscle should be pink or flesh-colored, and the 
fat white and clear. Veal should be thoroughly cooked, to make 
it digestible. Spring is the season for veal. It is cooked and 
served the same as other meats. 

ROAST VEAL BREAST. STUFFED. 

Select a piece of veal breast and have the butcher make an 
opening on the underside and stuff with bread dressing or potato 
stuffing. Sew up ends, dredge with salt, pepper, ginger and flour; 
place in hot oven in roasting pan, with 2 tablespoons beef or poul- 
try fat, an onion cut fine and a little boiling water. Turn and 
baste roast ofen until brown and tender. A little allspice and bay 
leaf may be added for seasoning. Lamb breast may be prepared 
the same w r ay. 

VEAL POT PIE. 

Ends of the ribs, the neck or the knuckle may be used for a 
stew. Cut the meat in small pieces and remove the small bones. 
Cover the meat with boiling water, skim as it begins to boil, add I 
onion, i teaspoon salt, ]/\ teaspoon pepper for each pound of meat. 
Simmer till thoroughly tender. Cut 2 potatoes in quarters, soak 
in cold water and parboil 5 minutes before adding the stew. Thick- 
en with i tablespoonful flour rubbed smooth in cold water, adding 
more seasoning if liked. Just before serving add y 2 cup cream or 
milk with i tablespoon butter or fat. Serve with dumplings. 

BEEF STEW. 

Three and one-half pounds beef; l / 2 onion; l /4 cup turnip, cut 
up; Yi cup carrots, cut up; 2 tablespoons beef drippings; 2 potatoes; 
salt and pepper; *4 cup flour; water to cover dumplings. Wipe 
the meat, remove all the small pieces of bone and cut into small 
pieces. Put the larger bones and tough meat into the kettle and 

41 



cover with cold water. Dredge the rest of the meat with flour, 
pepper and salt, and brown it in the melted fat in the frying pan. 
Brown the onions also. Then put the meat and onions into the 
kettle and let it simmer 2 or 3 hours or until the meat is tender. 
Half an hour before serving add the other vegetables; 15 minutes 
before serving add the dumplings. Cook 15 minutes. When 
done take out the dumplings, remove the pieces of bone and fat. 
If necessary thicken the gravy with flour and add some pepper and 
salt. Half cup strained tomatoes can be added, if liked. 

BAKED CALF'S LIVER. 

Calf's liver; 2 tablespoons beef or poultry fat; 2 onions, sliced; 
2 tablespoons flour; salt and pepper. Wash, drain and trim calf's 
liver, sprinkle all over with salt, pepper and flour and place in a spid- 
er with beef or poultry fat and the onions. Melt fat and spread 
some over top of liver. Cover spider closely and place in a hot 
oven 15 minutes. Uncover, reduce the heat and bake slowly one 
hour, or until tender and well browned. Serve plain or with slices 
of fried bacon on top and decorate with parsley. 

MEAT PIE WITH POTATO CRUST. 

Chop cold roast beef, removing all fat and gristle ; cover bones 
and trimmings with cold water. Add a few slices of onion and 
carrot and a stalk of celery, if at hand. Let simmer i hour; strain 
off the broth and simmer it in the slices of beef until they are tender. 
Season with salt and pepper and pour into a baking dish ; shake 
in a little flour from the dredger, and, if at hand, add 4 or 5 mush- 
rooms peeled, broken in pieces and sauted 5 minutes in a little but- 
ter; cover closely with round of potato crust in which there is an 
opening; bake until the crust is done (about 15 minutes). 

Potato Crust: 2 cups flour; }/ 2 teaspoon salt; 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder; l /> cup shortening; I cup of cold mashed potato; milk 
or water. Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder, cut in 
the shortening, add the cold mashed potato and lastly the milk. 
Put on a floured board and roll gently. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Three and one-half pounds chicken; 3 quarts boiling water; ]& 
cup each onion, celery and carrot, diced ; 3 tablespoons chicken fat 
or butter ; 4 tablespoons flour ; 2 cups chicken stock ; salt, pepper 
and giner. Dress, clean and cut the chicken at the joints, in pieces 
ready to serve. Add salt, pepper and ginger and allow to stand 
several hours, or over night. Cover chicken with the boiling wa- 
ter, simmer 3 hours, add vegetables, cook until tender. Melt fat 
or butter in frying pan, add the flour, and gradually pour on the 
chicken stock or liquor. Stir to prevent lumps, season to taste 
and pour over chicken. Let cook a few minutts and serve with 
biscuits or dumplings. A good way to prepare old chicken or 
fowl, as they are always made tender by long, slow cooking. 

Or, season chicken with salt and pepper, add red pepper (seeds 
removed), a sliced onion, l /2 clove garlic minced, if desired, *4 CU P 

42 



diced celery, 2 bay leaves. Cover with boiling water and let sim- 
mer until tender. Drain and serve with cream sauce and boiled 
rice. 

POULTRY. 

CHICKEN CASSEROLE. 

Dress and cut up one grown chicken, dust lightly with flour 
and fry in half cup of hot drippings until slightly browned on both 
sides. Dice one small onion and one clove of garlic in bottom of 
casserole. Place chicken in cesserole and add one tablespoonful 
of butter, dust with black pepper and a dash of red pepper if liked. 
Make a paste of one tablespoonful of flour and two tablespoonfuls 
Lea and Perrin's Worcestershire sauce, about consistency of cream. 
Pour over chicken which has been placed in casserole, add drip- 
pings used for frying and boiling water to barely cover all. Put 
cover on casserole, set in oven and cook one hour without looking 
at it. It will be tender and good. 

Mrs. W. T. Fitzgerald, 
819 Carondelet St., New Orleans, La. 

CHICKEN AND RICE. 

Creole : No. i : ^y> pounds fat chicken ; salt, pepper and pap- 
rika ; l /4 cup chicken fat; I onion, sliced; i l / 2 cups rice; I can toma- 
toes ; i green pepper, seeds removed. Dress, clean and cut chicken 
in pieces to serve. Season with salt, pepper and paprika, brown 
onion in the chickent fat, add chicken, brown lightly, cover and 
let simmer i hour. Add the rest of the ingredients, place in sas- 
serole, cover and bale i hour in moderate oven oruntil tender. 

Hungarian No. 2: 3 1-3 pounds fat yellow chicken; boiling 
water; ^4 CU P chicken fat; i medium onion, chopped; i cup rice; 
salt and paprika. Dress, clean and cut chicken in pieces to serve. 
Salt and let stand several hours. Heat fat in iron kettle, add on- 
ion, fry golden brown and set aside. Then fry chicken in the fat 
and when nicely browned, add paprika to taste and boiling water 
to cover and let simmer about i hour. 

Soak rice in cold water, drain, add the fried onion and i tea- 
spoon salt and gradually 3 cups of the chicken broth, more if nec- 
essary. When nearly done add the chicken and finish cooking 
in a slow oven ^ hour. 

CHICKEN A LA KING. 

Three and one-half pounds young chicken ; i can broken mush- 
rooms ; i large green pepper ; i pimento cut ; i can peas ; T can as- 
paragus tips; l /2 cup chicken fat or butter; l /i cup flour; 2 or 3 cups 
chicken soup ; l /> cup cream ; l / 4 cup sherry wine ; salt and pepper ; 
2 yolks of eggs. Boil the chicken, take the large white and dark 
pieces, cut in strips 2 inches long, cut peppers in thin strips, cut 
pimento in small pieces. Drain the mushrooms and peas. Heat 
Vx of the fat in a spider, add flour, when bubbling, add ij/? cups 
soup, stir until thick and smooth, season with salt, pepper and pap- 
rika, add liquid from the mushrooms, stir. 

43 



CHAPTER XI. 
VEGETABLES. 

GENERAL RULES FOR VEGETABLES. 

Wash vegetables thoroughly, pare and scrape, if skins must be 
removed. Keep in cold water until they are to be cooked, to keep 
them crisp and to prevent their being discolored. Cook in boiling 
water; the water must be kept at boiling point. Use I teaspoon 
salt with i quart water ; put the salt into the water when the veg- 
eables are partially cooked. The water in which vegetables are 
cooked is called vegetable stock. 

FRESH ASPARAGUS. 

Cut asparagus on lower parts of stalks, as far down as they 
will snap. Wash, remove scales and retie bunches. Cook in boil- 
ing, salted water 15 minutes, or until tender, leaving tips out of 
water first 10 minutes. To remove the bitter taste of white as- 
paragus, parboil, drain and add fresh boiling water, then boil until 
tender. Drain, remove string and add tablespoon butter browned, 
to each pound bunch of asparagus, or serve in white sauce, or cream 
sauce, or pour over them a few bread crumbs in hot butter or fat, 
allowing one tablespoon butter to one pound asparagus. Serve on 
toast. 

CANNED ASPARAGUS. 

Open one end of the can, as indicated on wrapper, so tips will 
be at opening. Pour off the liquid and allow cold water to run 
over them gently and to rinse. Drain and pour boiling water over 
them in the can and set in an oven to heat thoroughly. When 
ready to serve, drain and arrange carefull} r on hot platter, and serve 
same as fresh asparagus, hot on toast or cold with salad dressing 
poured over. 

STRING BEANS AND TOMATOES. 

One quart string beans; i cup strained tomatoes; 2 table- 
spoons butter or fat ; i teaspoon salt ; i teaspoon sugar ; *4 teaspoon 
pepper; 2 tablespoons flour. Cut off both ends of the beans, string 
them carefully and break into pieces about i inch in length and cook 
in boiling, salted water, i teaspoon salt to quart of water. When 
tender reduce the liquor to about l /2 cup. 

Heat the butter, add the flour and seasoning and add the 
strained tomatoes; cook until smooth and pour this sauce over the 
beans; let cook slowly for about 15 minutes and serve hot. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER. 

One pound head cauliflower; 2 quarts boiling water; j tea- 
spoons salt. Select cauliflower with white head and fresh, green 
leaves. Remove leaves, cut off stalk and soak, (head douii) in 
cold water. Separate flowerets and cook twenty minutes or until 
soft in boiling salted water. Drain and reheat in 1^2' cups <>f white 
sauce, or cream sauce. A little grated nutmeg may be added. 

44 



\ 



With Butter Sauce : Drain and place the hot boiled cauliflower 
in serving dish and pour over it l /4 cup hot browned butter. Serve 
hot. 

With Browned Crumbs: Drain and place the hot boiled cauli- 
flower in serving dish and pour over it 2 tablespoons fine bread 
crumbs, browned in I tablespoon of hot butter or fat. Serve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Put boiled cauliflower with white or cream sauce, in buttered 
baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs, and if desired, l / 2 cup 
grated cheese, and bake on center grate until crumbs are brown. 

CABBAGE AU GRATIN. 

One-half large cooked cabbage; i pint white sauce; ^4 CU P g rat ~ 
ed cheese ; salt and paprika ; l /2 cup cracker crumbs ; 3 tablespoons 
melted butter. Put a layer of the cabbage, coarse-chopped, into 
a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, paprika, and 
salt as needed, and cover with a layer of white sauce. Repeat the 
layers until all the ingredients have been used, having the last layer 
of sauce. Cover with the cracker crumbs mixed with the butter. 
Let stay in the oven only long enough to make very hot and brown 
the crumbs. 

SWEET AND SOUR CABBAGE. 

One quart cabbage (red or white) ; 2 sour apples ; 2 tablespoons 1 
fat; 4 tablespoons brown sugar; 2 tablespoons vinegar; salt and pep- 
per ; 2 tablespoons flour. Shred the cabbage fine, salt and pepper 
to taste, add the apples cut in slices. 

Heat the fat in a spider, add the cabbage and apples. Pour 
boiling water over them and let cook until tender; sprinkle' over 
the flour, add sugar and vinegar. Cook a little longer and serve 
hot with potato dumplings. If red cabbage is used, pour boiling 
water over 2 or 3 times to take out some of the color. 

CARROTS AND PEAS. 

One pint carrots ; y{ cup soup stock ; 2 tablespoons butter or 
fat; i pint peas; */2 cup carrot water; 2 tablespoons flour. Wash, 
scrape and cut carrots in small cubes, cook until tender, drain and 
reserve ^ cup carrot water. Mix carrots well with cooked green 
peas. Sprinkle with flour, salt, sugar and pepper to taste, add fat 
or butter, soup stock and carrot water, boil a little longer and 
serve. Can also be served with sweet and sour sauce. 

SPINACH. 

One-half peck spinach; 2 tablespoons butter or fat; 2 teaspoons 
chopped onion; 2 tablespoons bread crumbs or flour; y 2 teaspoon 
salt; 1-8 teaspoon pepper; 1-16 teaspoon nutmeg; i cup soup stock 
or meat gravy and hot water. 

Pick off the roots and the decayed leaves, wash in three or four 
waters. Put the spinach in a large kettle without water. Let 
cook slowly, until some of the juice is drawn out, then boil about 

45 



15 minutes, or until tender. Drain and chop very fine with empty 
baking powder can. If spinach is old. cook in i quart of boiling, 
salted water. 

Heat the butter in a spider, add the onions and brown, then 
the bread crumbs or flour and the seasoning, and gradually the 
soup stock or gravy and hot water. Then add the spinach. Pleat 
through and if desired, stir in 2 raw eggs and garnish with poached 
or hard-cooked eggs, sliced. 

CORN SOUTHERN STYLE. 

One can corn, chopped; 2 eggs; i teaspoon salt; 1-8 teaspoon 
pepper; i 1 /^ teaspoons melted butter; i pint hot milk. Beat eggs 
slightly, add rest of the ingredients and turn into a well buttered 
pudding dish. Bake until firm in a slow oven and serve hot. 

BAKED EGG PLANT. 

Mashed egg plant; 2 tablespoons fat or butter; l / 2 onion, cut 
fine ; 2 tablespoons bread crumbs ; i yolk egg. Parboil egg plant 
until tender, but not soft, in boiling, salted water. Cut in half 
crosswise with a sharp knife. Scrape out the inside and do not 
break the skin. 

Heat i tablespoon butter or fat, add the onion, brown, then 
scraped egg plant, bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste and the 
egg yolk. Mix well together, refill shells, place in dripping pan, 
in oven baste with butter or sprinkle cracker crumbs on top with 
bits of butter, baste often and brown nicely. 

STUFFED SQUASH. 

One quart mashed squash ; 2 tablespoons butter or fat ; l /2 on- 
ion, chopped; Yi cup soaked bread; i egg; y 2 tablespoon salt; 1-8 
teaspoon pepper; }/> cup cracker crumbs. Cut the squash in two 
crosswise, remove seed and strings ; place in dripping pan, shell 
side up, and bake 2 hours or until soft, in a slow oven. Scrape out 
the shells, being careful not to break the shells. 

Heat the butter or fat in a spider, add the onion chopped fine, 
let 'brown lightly, add the soaked bread, mashed and the squash. 
Fry all together 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from 
fire, add the salt, pepper and stir in the egg well. Place mixture 
back into shells; sprinkle cracker crumbs and bits of butter on top 
and return to oven to brown nicely. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take six medium-sized tomatoes, cut off the tops and dig out 
the pulp, place the empty skins in a pie plate. Fry two or three 
rashers of bacon browning slightly, but not making at all crisp, 
remove from pan and chop them up with a meat chopper, adding 
one onion, parsley, red pepper, salt to taste, the tomato pulp, and 
one cup of grated bread crumbs. Place this mixture in the pan 
in which the bacon was fried, and cook a few minutes or until the 
onions are half cooked, add one egg well beaten, stirring rapidly in 

-46- 



order to mix well. Remove from fire and put into the empty to- 
mato shells, cover tops with grated bread crumbs. Bake in mod- 
erate oven for about twenty-five minutes. This dish takes the 
place of a meat dish when desired. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Three large cucumbers; iY 2 dozen shrimp; 2 eggs; 2 medium- 
sized onions; 2 cups grated bread crumbs. Parboil cucumbers, 
drain and slice in halves; scoop out pulp, being careful not to break 
skins. Cut onions in dices, parsley and thyme very finely ; also 
cut up shrimp. Brown onion in a little lard, add parsley, thyme 
and shrimp. Mix in your bread crumbs. Take from fire and beat 
2 eggs, to which add salt and pepper, with the above mixture. Fill 
your skins, sprinkle top with bread crumbs and bake for fifteen 
minutes. 

Mrs. Wm. Arndt. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. Normal Alumnae 

Six large sweet peppers ; 2 cups bread crumbs ; i box potted 
ham; I onion; I sprig parsley; I tomato. Cut a slice from each 
stem end of the peppers. Remove the seeds and parboil fifteen 
minutes. Chop fine bread crumbs, ham, onion, parsley, and to- 
mato, season with salt and pepper. Stuff the peppers with this 
mixture and stand them in a dripping pan into which has been 
placed one tablespoon of butter, one-half chopped onion, and a half 
pint of water or stock. Bake fifteen minutes, basting frequently. 

BREAD AND POTATO BALLS. 

Six large potatoes ; i large onion ; 2 eggs ; l / 2 pound stale bread ; 
6 green onions, parsley, thyme, summer savory ; i cooking spoon- 
ful flour. Boil potatoes in salt water and mash. Soak bread, 
press dry and break up. Cut onion in dices, chop green onion and 
parsley fine. Put a little lard in pan, put in onions and when they 
turn yellow, add green onion, parsley, thyme and bread. When 
bread is steamed through, add hot mashed potatoes and mix ; take 
from fire and cool. When cooled off, beat 2 eggs, then add a little 
salt and pepper and mixture with just enough flour to hold it to- 
gether amount depends upon potatoes; if mealy less is used. Flour 
your hands and roll into balls about two inches in diameter. Boil 
in plenty of boiling salted water until they rise to the top, about 
fifteen minutes. Take out of pot with skimmer, finish off by pour- 
ing bread dices browned in lard and butter over them. 

Mrs. Wm. Arndt. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Grate four large raw potatoes, grate in colander so water can 
drip freely from potatoes; grate in one small onion, parsley chopped 
fine, four eggs, salt, mix thoroughly; then add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Fry in hot lard; about one large kitchen spoon of mix- 
ture to each cake. 

47 



CHAPTER XII. 

SALADS. 

"O, green and glorious, 

O, herbaceous treat ! 

'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 

Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul. 

And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl." 

Salads are playing a more prominent part in the daily menu. 
They whet the appetite. They are refreshing and healthful, and 
their presence upon the table at least once each day should be a 
part of the program of every wife whose duty it is to plan the meals 
for a household. 

The salad may be rich in nutriment, or it may merely be light 
and refreshing, according to the meal it is to accompany or supple- 
ment. Daintiness is the expected thing regardless of the aim of 
the salad course, and its service may lift the most common-place 
meal to a high standard. Now that lettuce is procurable at all 
seasons, crisp leaves should form the foundation for the salads. A 
dainty plate, crisp leaves of lettuce, cold ingredients, are necessary 
to success. Crisp crackers are served with many varieties of salad, 
and special forks for eating it are now among the attractions of 
every jewelry store. Make the most of the salad course. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil one chicken tender ; when cold cut in small pieces, add to 
this cut into small pieces one stalk celery and one head of lettuce ; 
mix, season with salt and pepper, a little olive oil and lemon juice 
or vinegar (lemon juice preferred). 

MAYONNAISSE DRESSING. 

Yolks of 2 boiled eggs (hard); yolks of 2 raw eggs; l /$ pint 
pompein olive oil. Make a paste of the eggs by using a spoon ; 
beat them together until smooth, then gradually pour in olive oil, 
when all oil is used, season with a little salt and drop in by drops, 
a little lemon juice to suit taste. Garnish your platter with let- 
tuce leaves, put in your chicken, spread the dressing on top; decor- 
ate top with a little pimento. 

Mrs. L. R. Stumpf, 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten ; I teaspoonful dry mustard ; i tea- 
spoonful sugar; l / 2 cup vinegar; i tablespoonful butter; salt and 
black pepper to taste. Salad oil may be used instead of butter. 
After heating all together, set over water, slow fire and stir con- 
stantly till it thickens. One-half cup of rich sweet milk, heated 
but not boiling, may be added to the cooking mixture, and it is im- 
proved. If milk is used add salt after dressing is done. 

Mrs. R. J. Herring, Floyd, La. 

-48- 



Harris's Jersey Ice Cream 

"None Better Made" 



Families, Receptions, Weddings and all occa- 
sions requiring the best will make no mis- 
take by ordering from Harris's. 



A full assortment of CAKES and PASTRY suitable 

for all occasions 



n W- ll-i AA THERE IS PSYCHOLOGY MANIFEST IN HOMEf 

N[ Afifif ACQUIRING. Every wife desires a home and every hus- 
band's pride is in providing one to satisfy her and hi 

family, thereby establishing contentment in his kingdom. We show him how to 
gratify that ambition. We also endeavor to guard him against overstepping his possi- 
bilities. Why not acquire or build a home now and start your happy regime. No 
charge to find out how with us. Our reserve of $55,508.00 is for the protection of our 
stockholders and borrowers. 

GERMAN-AMERICAN HOMESTEAD 



730 COMMON STREET. 



Capital Stock $5,000,000.00. 

LOUIS ERNEST RABOUIN, President. 



Interstate 

Trust and Banking 
Company 

Camp and Canal Sts. 



DIRECTORS 

LEIGH CARROLL 

LYNN H. DINKINS 
Mrs. JOHN DIBERT 
GEO. W. DODGE 
I. C. ENOCHS 

JOHN W. FAIRFAX 

CHAS. PAYNE FENNER 
CHARLES KARST 
JAMES D. LACEY 

JOSEPH W. LENNOX 
WM. T. MAGINNIS 

L. H. PRICE 

Mrs. SAMUEL B. SNEATH 
CHARLES B. THORN 

Resources over $7,000,000.00 



Be Coffee Wise not Coupon 
foolish 

Union Coffee 

25c the Pound 

All Quality No Premiums 

At Your Grocer 
In the Green Package 

Merchants Coffee Co, 

of New Orleans, Limited 

Scientific Blenders of High 
Grade Coffees 

B. C. CASANAS, Prest. 



49 



POTATO SALAD. 

Dressing: I cup vinegar; i tablespoon flour; 4 or 5 tablespoons 
butter; 34 teaspoon pepper; yolks of 8 eggs, to which add a little 
water; I level tablespoon mustard; 2 teaspoons salt; y& teaspoon 
sugar. 

Cook all of these into a stiff, soft custard, put on ice until cold 
and then add I pint of whipped cream. Stir together lightly with 
a large fork and pour over salad the day you are to use it. If it 
stands over night with the whipped cream in it, it sometimes be- 
comes watery. 

Salad : About 6 large potatoes, sliced very thin. Do not boil 
until too mealy ; 8 or 10 hard-boiled eggs sliced thin. One very 
small onion chopped fine ; i cup of celery which has soaked in salt 
water one-half hour and then cut in small pieces with the scissors, 
do not chop. One cup of English walnuts cut in small pieces. 
Stir together and mix dressing in lightly with a two-pronged fork. 
Serve ice-cold on lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. George R. Fisk, 

TOMATO. GREEN PEPPER-AND-ONION SALAD. 

Chill peeled tomatoes. Pour boiling water over a green pep- 
per, rub off the outer layer of skin, cut out the stem, remove and 
discard the seeds, and then set the pepper in a cool place to become 
thoroughly chilled. Peel half a Spanish or other mild onion, then 
cut into exceedingly thin slices and separate these into rings; set 
these, also, to chill. When ready to serve set tht tomatoes, cut 
into halves or slices, into a salad bowl and pour over them French 
dressing (one tablespoonful of oil to each two slices). Cut the 
pepper into narrow rings. Mix the pepper and onion with French 
dressing, turning the slices over and over and crushing them slight- 
ly in the dressing. Use enough dressing to moisten them thor- 
oughly. Sprinkle the dressed onion and pepper over the slices of 
tomato and serve at once. 

GROUND ARTICHOKE SALAD. 

Boil artichoke until tender and peel, slice; add onion, celery 
seed, mustard seed and celery chopped fine. Mix and serve with 
French dressing on lettuce leaves. Mrs. J. Michaelis, 

CRAB SALAD. 

Boil and pick crabs, season very highly, mix picked meat with 
finely chopped celery, serve in tomato baskets or tomatoes scooped 
out, cover top with mayonnaisse. 

SALAD AND SLAW DRESSING. 

One tablespoonful flour: i tablespoonful sugar; salt spoon mus- 
tard; l /2 cup vinegar: i tablespoonful butter; i egg; salt spoon salt; 
l /2 cup water. Boil in double boiler, add }4 can evaporated milk 
or cream. This is fine for slaw or fruit salad ; if used for potato 
salad or meat, omit sugar. Increased four times will cover an 
apple and celery salad for thirty-two persons. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 

50 



D!lll!llllll!lllllll!lil!l!lllll!lll!H 

T F the present era of almost 

universal high prices results in 

forcing us to a realization that 

we can be just as healthy and just 

as happy, by doing without many 

of our modern expensive luxuries, 

it will indeed have proved a bless- 

j= ing in disguise. 

T F the National American pas- 
SE I sion to spend, spend, SPEND, 

H is finally strangled and habits 

of thrift substituted, we will be 

= individually better people and na- 

tionally a greater nation 

Try to practice thrift habits now 
A savings account will help yoit 

| Hibernia Bank 
| and Trust Co. 

Resources Over 28 Millions 



BIIIIHIIUIIIIIIH 

-51- 



APPLE-NUT-AND-CELERY SALAD. 

One cup of apple (peeled and cut in half-inch cubes) ; l / 2 table- 
spoonful of lemon juice; ^ to I full cup of tender celery (inner 
stalks cut in one-fourth inch slices) ; French or mayonnaise dressing 
as desired; *4 cup of nut meats, broken in pieces. Mix the apple 
and lemon juice to keep the apple from discoloring, then mix the 
apple and celery with French dressing. Use lemon juice instead 
of vinegar, in making the dressing, and allow for the lemon juice 
poured over the apple when it was cut. Instead of French dress- 
ing, mayonnaise may be used. 

APPLE-AND-DATE SALAD. 

Pare and core about three choice apples. Cut them into match- 
like pieces; there should be about one pint. Squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over the apple. Pour boiling water over half a pound 
of dates; separate them with a silver fork and skim out upon an 
agate dish. Let dry off in a hot oven. When cold cut each date 
into four or five strips, rejecting the stones; sprinkle with one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of salt and three or four tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil. Mix the apple and date and set aside in a cool place about an 
hour. When ready to serve, add a tablespoonful of lemon juice 
and one or two tablespoonfuls of oil, if the mixture seems dry. Mix 
thoroughly. Serve in a bowl lined with lettuce hearts. 

MANHATTAN SALAD. 

Mix one measure of apple, apred and cut in cubes, half the 
quantity of sliced celery, and one-fourth the quantity of celery, in 
diced chicken breast, with a generous allowance of mayonnaise. 
Serve on lettuce hearts. This is a particularly good salad to serve 
at tea and luncheon rooms. 

DRESSING FOR VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Chop half a small onion, twice as much parsley as onion and 
half a can of pimentos, exceedingly fine. To these, in a fruit jar, 
add one teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar and one cup of olive oil, and let stand 
one hour. Shake about five minutes when the dressing is ready to 
use. Shake a moment each time thereafter before using. This 
dressing may be made in quantity, as it will keep a long time. Two 
or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, rather than the quantity given, 
would be preferable for some tastes. 

FRUIT SALAD AND DRESSING. 

Dice 2 good-sized apples, slice 2 oranges, i bunch white grapes, 
I pint of Maraschino cherries, l /z cup chopped walnuts, }/? cup chop- 
ped pecans, ^ cup chopped almonds, 2 bananas, (if desired). 

Salad Dressing: Take 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, i cup sugar, 
3 e gg yolks, white of one, i lemon rind and juice grated. Put 
sugar and butter on to melt slowly ; beat lemon and eggs together, 
add slowly to sugar and butter, cook until thick, when cold, add 
half cup sweet cream, pour over fruit one hour before serving. 

Mrs. F. K. Rice, 

52 






A WOMANLY VOCATION 

New Orleans School of Midwifery 

Under the Auspices of Loyola University 

Offers courses for equipping white women for the practice of the Profession of 
Midwifery. 

Instituted in fulfillment of an expressed desire of the Louisiana State Board of 
Medical Examiners in its report read and approved at the annual meeting of the 
Louisiana State Medical Society in May, 1916. 

Approved .by said Board at a subsequent meeting. 

Especially recommended for Graduate Nurses and practicing Midwives who have 
not had the advantage of a thorough, systematic, practical and theoretical course, and 
for intelligent young women in other callings. 



JOSEPH A. DANNA, M. D., Secretary 



SUITE 714-716 MAISON BLANCHE BLDG., 



NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



The Standard Water 
Route to Mexico 

10 Day Direct Service to 

TAMPICO VERA CRUZ 

PROGRESO 

Suite 512-513-514 Whitney Bldg. 
NEW ORLEANS 

Mexican Navigation Go. 



$100, $500, and 
$1,000 Bonds 

Secured by first mortgage on 
Farm and -City real estate with 
payment of principal and interest 
guaranteed by us. 




Capital Paid in $600,000 
NEW ORLEANS. 



Delta Lumber Co. 

DEALERS IN 

ALL KINDS OF LUMBER 

Office: 3536 CARROLLTON AVENUE. 

Yard: Carrollton Avenue and I. C. R. R. 

Crossing 
Phones: Walnut 88 & 89 NEW ORLEANS 



COMPLIMENTS OF 

New Orleans Queens- 
ware Company 

A. SHverstein, Pres. 



The Store That Reflects the 
Styles. 

B. Cohn Co., Ltd, 

727-729 Canal Street. 

DRY GOODS READY TO 
WEAR 

MILLINERY 



DYERS CLEANERS 

Z E L O N 

PHONE MAIN 221. 222. 223 
Baronne St. Corner Julia NEW ORLEANS 

Men's, Women's and Children's Garments, 
Rugs, "Draperies. Etc. 



Mrs. H. B. Bradford 

FURNITURE 

Carondelet and Howard A\venue 
Phone Main 4G58 New Orleans 



ATTENTION 

MUTUAL BOARDING HOUSE EXCHANGE 

Visitors Tourists Transients. 

ROOMS BOARD. 

Finest accommodations in famjlies of 
highest respectability in all parts of the 
city. 
423 AUDUBON BLDG., MAIN 3874. 



QUALITY SELLS 

"Cafe Du MondeCoffee" 

Samples Given Away 

SOUTHERN COFFEE MILLS, LIMITED 



D. H. HOFFMAN, Pres. 



53 



CHAPTER XIII. 
PUDDINGS. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Before soaking bread cut off crust, dip in water and squeeze 
out. Mix 6 eggs and five kitchen spoonfuls of sugar; add to it the 
soaked bread, then I quart of milk, i kitchen spoonful of butter and 
i tablespoonful of vanilla. 

Mrs. J. Stechman, 

Yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
then add i pint milk and i teaspoonful vanilla. Slice and butter 
several slices of bread cut in cubes about an inch square ; add to 
custard and let stand 15 minutes. If all the custard is not absorbed 
by bread, add more bread; then add y cup raisins, y$ cup nuts; 
bake in a shallow buttered pan, (have it about i l /> inches thick), in 
a slow oven. When cool put jelly on top about one inch thick; 
take whites and make meringue; place on top of jelly and let mer- 
ingue brown slightly. When cool, cut in slices and serve like cake. 

Maude L. Daly, N. O. Woman's Club. 

CANADIAN PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound flour; l /> pint sweet milk; i cup brown sugar; l /2 
teaspoonful allspice; small piece citron chopped fine; 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; 6 eggs; l /2, pint black molasses; 2 cups raisins, 
chopped fine; i cup currants; y> pound beef suet, chopped fine; l /2 
teaspoonful salt. Mix all well together to a very stiff batter; sift 
a little flour in raisins and currants before mixing; boil 4 hours in 
a pudding bag and serve with sauce either hot or cold. 

Mrs. Theo. T. Daly. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One pound figs chopped ; 3 eggs ; 2 scant cupfuls milk ; a little 
salt ; 2 cupfuls fine dry bread crurnbs ; l / 2 cupful beef suet chopped 
fine; l /2 cupful sugar; y^ teaspoonful baking powder stirred in l /2 
cup sifted flour. Soak crumbs in milk, add eggs beaten light with 
sugar, salt, suet, floured figs ; beat, put in buttered mold with tight 
top, set in boiling water. Boil three hours. 

Mrs. Geo. R. Fisk, 

PUDDING (Cost About 5 Centso. 

Take i pint of flour ; i cup chopped suet ; i teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder; i cup raisins (if desired); a little salt; mix with milk 
into rather a stiff batter. Dip small cloths into hot water, then 
flour them, put tablespoonful of butter in, roll and put into steamer 
over hot water. Cover tightly, steam one hour. Makes six dumplings. 

Sauce: i teacup sugar; */>' pint water; i tablespoonful flour. 
Cook in double boiler, then when thick, add i tablespoonful butter, 
and when taken off, one teaspoonful orange juice. 

Mrs. Geo. R. Fisk. 

54 



FACTS ABOUT DICE 



Rice contains more strength giving 
material than potatoes and can be 
used in place of potatoes. 

Potatos are three-quarters water 
while rice has practically no water. 

Potatoes are one-fifth starch while 
rice is more than three-quarters 
starch, and starch gives heat and 
strength to the body. 

Rice contains two-thirds more flesh- 
.building material than potatoes. 
Therefore, a given amount of money 
will buy four tims as much food value 
if spent for rice as it will if spent for 
potatoes. 

Rice is best eaten when boiled and 
served with meat gravy, cheese, peas, 
beans or lentils, and when eaten in 
either of these combinations will give 
you practically all the food your body 
needs. 

The United States Department of 
Agriculture gives the analysis of po- 
tatoes and rke as follows: 

Potatoes Rice 

Water 7a3% 12.4% 

Protein 2.2% 7.4% 

Fat 1% .4% 

Starch 18.4% 79.4% 

Mineral Water 1.0% .4% 

also the comparative food values as 
follows: 

Rice 86.09% 

Wheat 82.54% 

Rye ._ 82.79% 

Oats _ 74J02% 

Maize :. 82.97% 

Potatoes .23.24% 

Fat Beef _ 46.03% 

Lean Beef 26.83% 

The following is a simple recipe 
for boiling rice: 

"Let your water, salted to taste, 
come to a violent boil, put in your 
rice, boil for twenty minutes, pour 
into straining colander, let a stream, 
of water pass through the rice to 
take out the starchy residue, then 
serve. The violent boiling prevents 
the grains from coming together or 
sticking to the pot. Do not stir. 



EAT RICE NOT BECAUSE IT'S 

CHEAPEST, BUT BECAUSE IT'S 

BEST 



Rickert's Rice Mills 



Triangle Theatre 

Dauphine and Iberville 
NOTHING BUT STARS 

In Dramatic and Comedy Photo- 
Plays \vith Musical Accompani- 
ment to Suit Action on Screen. 

ADMISSION, ALWAYS lOc 



Levy Rice 

Milling Co 

Rice Millers 

and 
Distributors 



New Orleans, La. 



Imperial Shoe Store 



Largest South 



Grunewald 
Laundry 



818 CONTI STREET 
Phone M 3129 

Auto Truck and Wagon Service 
To All Parts of City 



55 



STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Beat together to a cream two tablespoonfuls of butter, }/ 2 cup 
of sugar and one egg; then add }/ A cup of milk, one scant cup of 
flour, sifted twice with two scant teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Bake in small muffin tins about twenty minutes, and when 
done, remove the centers, fill with crushed, sweetened strawberries; 
put whole berries on top. Dust with powdered sugar and serve 
with rich sweet cream. 

Maude L. Daly, 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Take one pound blackberries, stew for ten minutes. Have 
ready a pie dish lined with strips of stale bread well sifted with 
white sugar. Pour the fruit over them while it is boiling and when 
quite cold, cover it all over with a thin custard. 

Mrs. B. A. Warriner, 

ORANGE AND MACCAROON PUDDING. 

Soak 1-3 pound of almond macaroons in a pint of milk until 
soft. Beat four eggs without separating, and add to them l / 2 cup 
of sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Do not grate in any 
of the white pith as it spoils the flavor ; stir this mixture carefully 
into the macaroons and add the juice of two oranges. Pour into 
a buttered mold and set on a stand or ring in a kettle of boiling wa- 
ter. Boil steadily for one hour; serve hot with orange sauce. 

Maude L. Daly, 

KISS PUDDING. 

Get y? pound stale lady fingers stale sponge cake will do- 
put l /2 the cake in the botton of a pudding pan. If lady fingers 
are used, separate into halves. No\v put in a layer of peaches, 
canned are best, then the other halves of the cake, then another 
layer of the peaches. 

Make a boiled custard, one pint of milk, the yolk of three eggs 
and i tablespoon of cornstarch. When thickened, pour it over the 
peaches and cake, and put the pudding in the oven for about 10 
minutes. Remove from oven, pour over it a meringue made of 
the whites of the 3 eggs and 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar, put back in 
the oven and brown lightly ; serve cold. 

Mrs. Chas. J. Altman, 

APPLE PUDDING. 

(A delicate and delicious Southern dessert). 

Peel and core enough good cooking apples to cover the bottom 
of a pan about thirteen inches in diameter, and sprinkle over them 
a good cup of sugar, add a little water and bake until soft and very 
little juice remains in the pan. 

Then make a quart of thickened milk. Put the milk on the 

-56- 



000 0000000000000000 00000 n 
n 



n Rice, The King of Cereals }=} 

|lj "Rice forms the principal food of one-half the popu- 

lation of the earth. It is more widely and generally 

used as a food material than any other cereal."- *_, 

Farmers' Bulletin No. no, U. S. Department of Agri- >-* 

culture. 

T-J "A combination of rice and legumes is a much 

cheaper complete food ration than wheat and meat."- 

p; Farmers' Bulletin No. 417, U. S. Department of Agri- 

Q culture, Page 5. 

Rice Is Very Nutritious 

n 

Comparative table taken from Report No. 6 of the 
Miscellaneous Series, Division of Statistics, U. S. De- 

partment of Agriculture, page 12. Nutritive matter jz; 

contained in : 

Per Cent. Per Cent. 

Rice ............... 86.09 Maize ............. 82.97 

vlj Wheat ............. 82.54 Potatoes ........... 23.24 

^ Rye ............... 82.79 Fat Beef ........... 46.03 

Oats .............. 74-02 Lean Beef ......... 26.83 

"These figures show that rice contains a slightly 

larger amount of total nutritive matter than wheat or 

jz! rye, the exact proportion being i pound of rice equiv- 

alent to 1.043 pounds of wheat or to 1.040 pounds of 
rye. Maize approached somewhat more nearly, the 
proportion of rice to maize being i to 1.038. Rice is jz| 

more nutritious than whole oats, i pound of the former 

being equivalent to 1.163 pounds of the latter, while 

it contains 3.70 times as much nutritive matter as po- 

tatoes, 1.87 times as much as fat beef, and 3.21 times 
|z: as much as lean or good ordinary beef." 

O rz 

Rice Is the Easiest Cereal to Digest 

Doctors prescribe it. Excellent for those who have 

stomach troubles, also for those that do heavy work 

and those who take little exercise. They need a food to 

digest quickly. ("In the selection of food the first 

thing to be considered is digestion, for if the food is 

not digested it is worse than useless.") %_* 

g LOUISIANA STATE RICE MILLING CO., ING. jjj 

New Orleans, U. S. A. 

n' 

00000000000000000000000000 

57 



stove to heat, keep out a little to wet the flour or cornstarch. Take 
several heaping tablespoons of flour and wet it with the cold milk, 
stir it into the hot milk and cook until stiff, it should be almost as 
stiff as mush. Add a good tablespoon of butter, and set aside to 
cool. When the milk cools, beat eight eggs separately, and when 
the milk is cool enough not to cook the eggs, add the yolks and then 
the whites. Pour over the apples and bake, it does not take long 
to cook. Serve with hard sauce, using any flavoring you like. 

Mrs. M. E. Conner. 
SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Grate two cups of potato. Beat four eggs well, add one cup 
of sugar and the grated potato, four heaping tablespoons of flour, a 
little salt and }/\ cup of crisco, beat thoroughly then add enough 
sweet milk to make a thin batter. Put in a greased pan, and cook 
in a moderate oven for one hour. If it gets too brown at the sides 
stir from the sides and let it form again. Put a tin under the pan 
to prevent burning at the bottom. Maude L. Daly, 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

Cook 30 prunes until soft, strain them and beat whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth ; mix with one cup of sugar. Stir together, put in a 
double boiler and cook one and a half hours. When ready to serve, 
cover with whipped cream flavored with vanilla and sweetened a 
little. Mrs. M. Schneider. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Six eggs, i tumbler of sugar, i pint of sherry wine, I package 
granulated gelatine, l /2 pound crystallized fruits, 2 dozen macaroons. 
Beat yolks and sugar very light, add wine, stir thoroughly. Set 
on stove to boil, stirring constantly until thick as custard. Dis- 
solve gelatine in half glass warm water and add to custard just 
before taking from fire. Set aside to cool. Beat whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth and add to the custard when cold, mixing all well. 
Cut fruits into small pieces and crumb maccaroons. Take mold, 
put in layer of maccaroons, then a layer of fruits, then pour a part 
of custard over this. Fill up mold in this manner and set on ice to 
harden. Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. L. B. Facquet. 

PUDDING A LA REINE. 

Soak a loaf of bread until soft. Take off crust and squeeze 
bread not too dry. Put I quart milk on fire, when hot add bread 
and let come to a boil. Take off fire and stir in 6 beaten eggs, 
leaving out 3 whites for merinque ; i}/ 2 cups sugar powdered, i cup 
seedless raisins, 34 cup butter, i tablespoonful vanilla ; mix well, 
put in baking dish and bake like any other pudding. 

When done, take from oven, spread top with meringue, made 
of the 3 beaten whites and 2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. Sprin- 
kle chopped pecan meats all over the meringue, put back in oven 
and let brown, watching closely so it does not burn. This quan- 
tity will serve 10 persons and is most delicious. 

Mrs. Ambrose L. Moore. 

-58- 




SPREAD YOUR BREAD WITH 






JELKE 







c 

MARGARINE 



Don't pay high prices for butter when 
you can get GOOD LUCK for so much 
less. GOOD LUCK is a nutritious, 
healthful food, churned from materials 
used in your kitchen every day. Rec- 
ommended by the New Orleans Fed- 
eration of Clubs. 



Ch B r y ned John F. JelkeCo, 



If 



Mente & Company 

Importers and Manufacturers of 

Burlap and Bags Bagging and Ties 
Twines Cotton Patches, Etc. 



Sugar Bag Cloth 

And Our Celebrated 

"No Spider" Spliced Cotton Ties 

"As Good for Your Use as New" 



New Orleans 



L 



59 



i 



FROZEN PUDDING. 

Quarter pound stale maccaroons ; 3 tablespoonfuls sherry ; 3 
eggs; 1*4 cups sugar, I cup milk, i quart cream; 10 cents burnt al- 
monds. Roll marracoons and pour the sherry over them. Beat 
eggs and sugar until light; add cup of milk and scald. When this 
is cool, pour it over the maccaroons and sherry. Add cream, whip- 
ped) and mix well, then the burnt almonds which have been ground. 
Pack with ice and salt for three or four hours. This mixture can 
also be used as ice cream. 

Mrs. Leon C. Simon. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Dissolve i tablespoonful of gelatine in half cup of cold water; 
fill cup with boiling water and set aside till needed. Beat whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth and add i cup of sugar, a teaspoonful at 
a time, beating all the time. Pour the dissolved gelatine into the 
whites very slowly, (a tiny stream) beating fast, flavor with lemon. 
Divide the quantity and color part pink. When congealed, pour 
into a pan or mold, pink on top of the white, set on ice, and serve in 
slices, with whipped cream or a boiled custard as follows : The 
yolks of 4 eggs, half cup sugar, flavor with vanilla; i pint milk; 
cook in double boiler to keep from scorching. 

Mrs. J. M. Zachary. 



60 



NEW PERFECTION 




OIL COOK STOVE 



For Best Results 
Use 





For Sale by All Dealers Everywhere 









Cane Sugar 

Fine 

Granulated 



H Z3^f. 

American {Sugar 
Refining Company 

N. -Orloon-.,US A 




Sold in 5, 10. 25 and 50 Ib. cotton 
bags, refinery packed 



When your 

recipe says 

"add sugar" 

"Sweeten 
it with 
Domino" 

Granulated, Tablet, 

Powdered, 
Confectioners, Brown 



61 



CHAPTER XIV. 

"Give us the luxuries of life, 

And we will dispense with its necessaries." 

ICE CREAM AND ICES. 

For one gallon: Four cans pet cream; 4 cans water; ^ pack- 
age Knox gelatine dissolved in ^ cup water. After the gelatine 
is dissolved, add in cup of boiling water to this gelatine, stirring 
until well mixed. Add your coloring to the gelatine. \fter the 
gelatine is cool, pour it into the freezer, sweeten to suit the taste, 
add your flavoring, last the beaten white of one egg. This is an 

excellent cream. 

K. L. Anderson. 

BUTTERMILK ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts buttermilk, juice 3 lemons, i can grated pineapple, 
3 cups sugar, sweet cream. Stir all ingredients well together and 
pour in freezer can and add cream to fill can to about two inches 

from top. Freeze and pack. 

Mrs. S. E. McClendon. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

One quart milk. 2 cans condensed milk, 2 quarts water, juice 
of six large lemons. Mix milk, condensed milk and water; freeze 
until it commences to harden, then add juice of lemons, 
will curdle if directions are followed. 

Mrs. J. Robt. Lusher. 

MARSHMALLOW ICE CREAM. 

One pint sweet cream, i quart milk, y 2 pound marshmallows. 
Reserve 12 marshmallows and dissolve the remainder in the milk in 
a double boiler, stirring constantly until quite thick. Let cool, 
then put in freezer and when cold add cream sweetened to tasi 
also a teaspoon of orange flower water and the 12 marshmallows 
cut up into small pieces. This makes 1 A gallon. 

Mrs. L. Simon. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

Nine oranges, i quart cream, yolks of 4 eggs, 2 cups graulated 
sugar. Cream yolks and sugar and add juice of oranges. Whip 

cream and add to other. 

Mrs. J. M. Dresser. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

One quart milk, i can Magnolia condensed milk, one dozen 
peaches, i pint cream. To one quart of milk add can of condenser 
milk, put in freezer and when partly frozen, add peaches which 
have been peeled and mashed with a couple of tablespoons of sugar 
a,lded. Lastly add whipped cream. This may be omitted if de- 
sired. 

Mrs. John T. Benedict. 

62 



We Cannot All Be Weatlhy, 
But We Can Be Thrifty 

We are now entering on good times again, but as 
the wheel turns around, dark days will return. 
Let's be even better prepared than ever. Let more 
of us save. 
An account can be started here with ONE DOLLAR 

WHITNEY-CENTRAL TRUST 




St. Charles and Gravier Sts. 8132 Oak Street. 

Chartres and Iberville Sts. Dauphine and Piety Sts. 




WHEN YOU RIDE- 
RIDE RIGHT 
Travel by the 

Southern Pacific 
Lines 



Fast Trains 
All-Steel Standard and Tourist 

Sleepers 
Observation Cars 

Block Signals 

No Smoke No Dust No Cinders 
"Unexcelled Dining Car Service" 
NEW ORLEANS the GATEWAY 

TO CALIFORNIA 

The Apache Trail and the Myriad 

Scenic Wonders of the Great 

West. Ask for Apache 

Trail Book. 

THE WAY OF THE FAMOUS 
SUNSET LIMITED 

No Extra Fare 

J. T. MONROE 

General Passenger Agent, 

New Orleans, L. 



Purity Healthfulness Economy 

Disco Odorless Cooking and Salad Oils 

Cheaper and Purer than Lards. 

Used by leading hotels and families. 
DIRECT AUTOMOBILE DELIVERY 

Phone Hemlock 2322-W. 

A gallon trial will convince you. 

Manufactured by 

The American Cotton Oil Go. 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



JAC. BLOOM Established 1855 

BLOOM'S SON 

Rice Millers and Distributors 

Office: Magazine and Natchez Sts. 

(Southern Pacific Building) 

Mills and Warehouses: 

S. PETERS. ST. MARY 

TCHOUPITOULAS AND WATER STS. 

NEW ORLEANS 



-63- 



SOUTHERN STYLE COOKED ICE CREAM. 

Put on fire to boil one can condensed milk and three and a half 
cans water. Beat five eggs with five level tablespoonfuls sugar, 
when milk is nearly boiling- stir it into the egg and sugar, stirring 
briskly, put on fire in double boiler, and stir almost constantly, un- 
til thick, do not boil after it thickens to the consistency of butter- 
milk. \Yhile it is cooking add one teaspoonful butter. When 
cold add one tablespoon of essence. Freeze in usual manner. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham. 
SPRING SPARKLE. 

Three pounds white sugar, 2 pineapples cut fine, 4 quarts straw- 
berries, juice of 6 lemons and 6 oranges, i vanilla bean. Cut up 
all fruit fine, put in vessel and set in water to boil, stirring and 
mashing well to extract all juices. Strain and boil down to a rath- 
er thick syrup. Bottle while hot and put into sterilized bottles and 
cork. This makes a most refreshing drink. One-quarter glass of 
syrup, partly fill with crushed ice and fill with seltzer or apollinaris 
water, and if liked add a sprig of mint. 

Mrs. Horace Wilkinson. 
PINEAPPLE WHIP. 

Soak ]/2 box gelatine l /2 hour in cold water with i teaspoonful 
soda ; then put in colander and throw cold water over it several 
times to free from soda. Now set bowl containing gelatine in an- 
other bowl of hot water to dissolve it. 

Take i can of grated pineapple and mix with gelatine and i 
pint of whipped cream; set on ice over night to harden. Next 
morning, whip another pint of cream, cut pineapple in slices, cover 
with whipped cream and serve. Mrs. Geo. R. Fisk. 

MILK SHERBET. 

One quart milk, i]/ 2 cup sugar, grated rind of i lemon and juice 
of 2; add sugar to milk and stir till dissolved. Turn into freezer, 
freeze until just beginning to set. Add juice and rind of lemons 
and finish freezing. Cost 15^2 cents. 

Mrs. W. W. Van Meter. 

THREE OF A KIND SHERBET. 

Three oranges, 3 lemons, 3 bananas, 3 cups water, 3 apples, 2 l /2 
cups water. Mash and squeeze each fruit separately through a 
potato masher. This makes l /> gallon. 

Mrs. A. Alcus. 
STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Six boxes strawberries, mashed with potato masher, juice of 
two lemons, add sugar and water to make a gallon. Freeze in ice 
cream freezer. 

APRICOT AND PEACH SHERBET. 

One can apricots, one can peaches; press through colander, 
add juice of two lemons, sweeten to taste, add enough water to 
make a gallon. Place in ice cream freezer and freeze. 

-64- 



When you do not feel just in the humor to use 
these splendid Recipes, tell your grocery man to 
send you some of our QUALITY CAKES. 

Consumers Biscuit Co. 

Remember- -Say "Consumers" 




"The Labor of Centuries" Float of Nahigian Brothers, one of the 
largest ORIENTAL RUGS Dealers in United States. Headquarters, 
Chicago, and branch, 310 Baronne Street, New Orleans, La. (When 
interested in Oriental Rugs look up Nahigian Bros. Finest collection.) 



An Appetizing Dish 

"LUXURY'' Macaroni and Spaghetti looks good, tastes good, is good. It's 
something different. Smooth, solid sticks; made of high grade, well-cured 
flours, cooks up whole. 

Packed in sanitary packages, sealed air-tight with neavy wax paper; 
keeping it fresh and firm. 

Ask your grocer for "LUXURY" Macaroni and spaghetti; if he can't 
supply it send us his name, we'll see that you get it. 

Southern Macaroni Mfg. Go. New Orleans, La. 



REUTHER'S BREAD goes to more HOMES In this CITY than any other. 

THERE IS A REASON FOR IT. 
REUTHER'S BREAD is made out of the HIGHEST GRADE OF MATERIAL. 
REUTHER'S BREAD is MANUFACTURED CLEAN, Kept CLEAN. DELIVERED 

CLEAN. 

Try Reuther's Banner Bread 

The finest quality loaf ever baked in the city. 
JOS. REUTHER BAKERY, 1520-153O ORLEANS STREET. 

P. S. Don't be disappointed if in damp weather, your Bread becomes sojft. A 
few minutes in the oven will bring back the ORIGINAL CRISP and GOOD FLAVOR: 
KNOWN ONLY TO REUTHER'S BREAD. 

Treat You Stale BREAD the same way. 






| Panama Limited | 

1 "Peer of DeLuxe Trains" 1 



Daily Between 

NEW ORLEANS 

and 

CHICAGO ST. LOUIS 

All Steel All Pullman 

No Excess Fare 

Tickets and Particulars at 



I Illinois Central Offices | 

Chicago St. Louis New Orleans 



Woodward Wight & Co., Limited 

Largest General Supply House South since 18G7. 

REFRIGERATORS, 

STOVES, RANGES & HEATERS, 

GENERAL ELECTRIC FANS 

ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & SUPPLIES. 

The largest assortment and most complete Stocks in the entire South. 
Howard Ave., Constance and St. Joseph Streets. 

NEW ORLEANS 

= -6 5 - = 



TURKISH SHERBET. 

One quart sweet wine, I quart water, 2 pounds sugar, 2 lemons 
(juice only), 8 almonds, 4 oz. Muscat grapes, 4 oz. figs (cut small), 
4 oz. seeded raisins, 8 whites of eggs, 6 cloves, a spice of cinnamon, 
a little caramel coloring. Make a hot syrup of sugar and water, 
pour over the raisins, cloves and cinnamon ; when cool add oranges, 
lemon juice and wine; strain and use in usual manner; take out 
spices and add the scalded raisins, figs, grapes and almonds last. 

Mrs. F. K. Rice. 

FLOATING ISLANDS. 

One pint milk; 4 eggs; 4 tablespoons sugar; % teaspoon spice 
or, y^ teaspoon salt ; l /2\ teaspoon flavoring. Scald the milk. Sep- 
arate the eggs. Mix salt, sugar and cornstarch. Add to yolks 
and beat slightly. Beat the whites until very stiff, add 2 table- 
spoons sugar to them, beat slightly and spread mixture on top of 
the hot milk. Let cook 2 or 3 minutes until firm, lift out on a 
plate and pour the hot milk on the beaten yolks. Put this mixture 
into a double boiler and stir until it thickens. When nearly cool, 
stir in flavoring, put the cooked whites on the top and serve cold 
as a pudding. A pretty way to serve it is to lay specks of jelly 
on the whites. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Six large apples; l / 2 cup sugar; i spoonful vanilla; 3 eggs; i l /z 
cups milk. Boil apples which have been quartered and cored, but 
not peeled; when soft, press through colander; cool. Beat the 
whites of eggs until stiff, add ^2 cup of sugar; then slowly whip 
in the apple pulp ; place in refrigerator to cool thoroughly. It may 
be served with sauce made from the yolks of the eggs beaten until 
light. Add milk, place on fire to thicken, but not boil. 'Stir con- 
stantly, flavor. Mrs. Wm. Arndt. 

RICE CUSTARD. 

Half dozen eggs ; 4 tablespoonfuls rice ; i tablespoonful vanilla ; 
i teaspoonful melted butter; 6 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar; i 
quart sweet milk. Cook rice with plenty of water until very soft, 
then beat the yolks of the eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls of the sugar, 
stir in the milk, rice, melted butter and vanilla. Beat the whites 
with the remaining 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar until very stiff. 

Mrs. Alfred S. Phelps. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Two cups sugar, i pint whipped cream, i pint nuts, l /z pint 
jelly, 1/2 pint wine, I box gelatine. Line bowl with lady fingers 
and canned peaches and cherries ; mix the above and pour over lady 
fingers; put in cool place; serve with whipped cream and canned 
cherries on top. 

66 



Crisp, Delicious Toast Piping Hot Coffee 
Tender Grilled Chops 

ISN'T that an appetizing breakfast? You can enjoy its equal every morning, 
cooked to perfection. If you own an Electrical Breakfast Set. Electrically cooked 
food has a savor that is uniquely tempting. And the -meal is prepared right on the 
table no need of useless walking back and forth. 

Your Breakfast Menu 

will give you keen delight when you see it quickly and conveniently prepared qfi 
these artis artistic, highly nickelled appliances. The set is composed of an Electric 
Toastr, an Electric Percolator, and an Electric Grill. Call and let us show you 
the beauty and economy of cooking your lighter meals "The Electrical Way." 

New Orleans Railway &: Light Co. 



PHONE MAIN 2950 



201 BARONNE ST. 



cca 




A few bottles in your refrigerator for the 
unexpected guests will add greatly to 
their pleasure and prove you a charning 
hostess. 

The Louisiana Coca-Cola Bottling Co, 



CANAL AND N. ROBERTSON STS. 



Harry L. Moses 



Interior Decoration Fine Furni- 
ture, Store Fixtures, Wood Work 

Show Room and Factory 

705-707 Camp Street 



New Orleans, U. S. A. 



Dunbar Molasses 
& Syrup Co. 

Packers of 

KING KOMUS BRAND PURE 
LOUISIANA CANE SYRUP 

And 
DUNBAR'S CREOLE GUMBO 

"The Soup that Made New 
Orleans Famous" 



-6 7 - 



BAKED BANANAS LEMON SAUCE. 

Six bananas, 4 tablespoons melted butter, 2-3 cup sugar, 4 table- 
spoons lemon juice. Peel bananas. Place whole in baking pan, 
mix butter, sugar and lemon juice and pour over bananas. Bake 
slowly. 

CHOCOLATE DE LUXE. 

One cake German sweet chocolate; i egg; i teaspoonful van- 
illa; i quart milk; 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Melt chocolate in bowl 
over steam ; blend with warm milk ; beat egg with sugar, and after 
milk and chocolate has been scalded, add egg and sugar mixture, 
stirring carefully to prevent curdling; cook long enough to blend 
well, then add flavoring, sugar to taste. 

Mrs. C. M. Eustis. 

LADY FINGER PUFF. 

Twenty lady ringers, i pint whipped cream, i white of egg; ]/z 
cup of sugar, (powdered), l / 2 cup chopped pecans or any other nuts, 
i gelatine. Place the lady fingers around edge of dish, whip cream 
stiff, add it to the gelatine dissolved in hot water and the stiffly 
beaten white of egg, sugar and beat well, then pour over the lady 
fingers and then sprinkle the nuts over the cream and serve. 

Mae Baebe. 

FRUIT FANTASY. 

Cube one small cantaloupe, seeded and peeled ; quarter i dozen 
marshmallows ; whip i pint sweet cream (sweetened to taste). 
Chill before serving. Line sherbet glasses with Nabisco or lady 
fingers, place fruit mixture therein and dot each with a cherry. 
Will serve four persons nicely. 

(Mrs. P. L.) Arva Graham Luck, 

CHOCOLATE TART. 

Eight crackers, 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa, i l / 2 cups chopped 
pecans, milk to moisten well, i teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Crum-ble crackers fine, there must be a cupful. Add baking 
powder and sift into the well beaten sugar and yolks of eggs. Add 
cocoa and nuts and moisten well with milk, put mixture into baking 
dish and cook till done. Cover with meringue made of the whites 
of eggs and sugar, brown lightly. Serve with a white liquid sauce. 

Mrs. Horace Wilkinson. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Six eggs, beaten separately; l / 2 envelope gelatine; i teaspoonful 
vanilla flavoring; i cup sugar; i cup whipped cream. Beat yolks 
well, adding the sugar till a creamy mass ; soak gelatine in a very 
little cold water 5 minutes; finish dissolving in just enough hot wa- 
ter to dissolve ; stir in the well beaten egg whites and the whipped 
cream. Lastly, whip in the strained gelatine till mixture will 
"set" or congeal. If necessary, set on ice. Serve with whipped 
cream. Half this is sufficient for four persons. 

Mrs. R. J. Herring. 

68 



With Your Next Order 

INCLUDE A CASE OF 

DUNDAR'S SHRIMP 

(THE GREEN LABEL) 

ELEGANT FOR A SA'LAD 

SOLD BL LEADING GROCERS EVERYWHERE 
PACKED BY 

Dunber-Dukate Co. 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



DO YOU ENTERTAIN AT Home? 

If so, there are occasions when you are looking for something 
especially good in Eatables, Wines, Liquors, etc., try 

S O L A R I 

who has catered to the most exacting trade for nearly half a century. 

A. M. & J. Solari, Ltd. 

Royal and Iberville Sts. . St. Charles and Louisiana Ave. 

Agents, Pai-k & Tilford's Mi Favorite Cigar. 



THE BEST MILK 



PERFECTLY PASTEURIZED 
IN STERILIZED BOTTLES 



CLOVERLAND5 DAIRY CO. 

Phone Galvez 42 and 43 




|JOLlA**> MAGAZINE STS. 



MEW OR LEAJSTS. LA- 



FINE DOMESTIC WORK EXCLUSIVELY 



-69 



CHAPTER XV. 
CAKE 

PATHFINDERS CAKE. 

Two teacups of butter, 4 teacups granulated sugar, 6 teacupfuls 
flour (measured before sifting), 4 teaspoonfuls (level) yeast pow- 
der, 8 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla essence, i l /2 cups milk. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs one at a time, beat well un- 
lill all eggs are in, then add the flour sifted, and the milk, altern- 
ately, then the essence, lastly the yeast powder sifted. If using 
gas stove, light both burners, turn them half off, and place cake on 
top shelf of oven, bake nearly an hour if cake has been divided into 
two pans, and more than an hour if placed in one pan. Be careful 
not to shake stove while cake is baking. Try center with broom 
straw, and if it comes out dry cake is finished cooking. 

Miss Jennie Foerster, 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Two cups sugar ; I cup butter (cream the butter and sugar 
first), next add 3 eggs, (reserving whites to add last) ; l /2 cup but- 
termilk; i cup of grated chocolate; ^2 cup of boiling water; i tea- 
spoonful of soda. Put your soda in the chocolate then pour over 
the boiling water. Be sure the water is boiling. Mix this with 
the buttermilk and pour over the mixture of butter ; sugar and eggs. 
Then add 3 cups of flour, (the quantity of flour all depends upon the 
grade. The dough should be thicker than for ordinary cake) ; add 
whites of eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Filling: i l / 2 cups sugar; l / 2 cup of sweet milk; butter, (the 
size of a walnut) ; 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Boil till it forms a 
ball when dropped into cold water. Take off the range and whip 
till it thickens. Spread on the cake and sprinkle with nuts. 

Mrs. L. R. Stumpf, 

OLD FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of nine eggs as light as possible, add three cups 
of granulated sugar and beat again. Then add twelve tablespoon- 
fuls of hot water. Have ready the beaten whites of the eggs which 
should be put in next; and finally 3 cups of flour into which three 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder have been thoroughly mixed 
and sifted. Flavor with the grated rind of 2 lemons and the juice 
of one. Bake in a moderate quick oven. If you are careful to 
have the water very hot and are expeditious about putting the cake 
together, you cannot fail. 

Mrs. O. V. Waggner, Pres. Gretna Civic League. 

THE ROBERT E. LEE JELLY CAKE. 

Any good recipe for sponge layer cake may be used and fill 
with the following: Yolks of 3 eggs; juice and grated rind of one 
lemon; % pound of butter; l /> pound of sugar. Put in a saucepan 
on the stove and stir until cooked. Then put in the well beaten 

70 



BRASS BEDS 
REFINISHED 



wasm 

BRASS&MFG.CO. 

922-26 MAGAZINE ST. 

3407 



Law O/fices 

John P. Sullivan 



John P. Sullivan 
W. Catesby Jones 



642 Commercial Place 
Telephone Main 27 

New Orleans Louisiana 



BE SURE 

TO USE 



EN 



CO 



PURE FOOD 
IN CANS 



For complete ass'tment phone 

NIMBUS-BIKE 



,11. 




A trial will convince you that 
"Clipper" brand Canned foods. 

"Sugar Loaf" brand Canned 
foods. 

"Red Cross" brand Tomatoes. 
"Hickmotts" brand Asparagus. 
"Rumford Baking Powder" 

ARE FULL VALUE 



S. M. Fueled & Son 

Wholesale Dealers in 

Fish, Oysters, Shrimp, Etc, 

530 to 536 Dumaine St. & 

Through to Madison St., 

Near French Market 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



71 



whites of the 3 eggs ; as soon as it comes to a boil, remove from the 
fire and stir until cold. Then put it between the layers of cake. 
This cake is orthy of its illustrious name. 

Mrs. O. V. Waggner, Pres. Gretna Civic League. 

LIGHTNING CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of flour measured before sifting; i cup 
sugar; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Sift all together, break 
two eggs into a cup filled with sweet milk, beat and add to the flour. 
Add 5 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; 2 teaspoonfuls of essence. 
Bake 20 minutes in a quick oven, in loaf, cup, or layers. 

Mrs. W. L. Boynton, I2th Ward Civic League. 

SIMPLE CUP CAKE. 

One cup milk ; 2 cups sugar ; yolks of 4 eggs ; whites of 4 eggs ; 

1 cup butter; 3 cups flour; 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

To Prepare : Cream butter and sugar for io minutes, add yolks 
of 4 eggs, mix well with butter and sugar. Sift the yeast powder 
with the flour, add milk and flour alternately, then add in flavoring, 

2 tablespoonfuls vanilla; lastly the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. After the whites have been added, stir as little as possible. 
Grease pan well and bake for one hour in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. Stechman, McDonogh No. n Parents' Club. 

GOOD LUCK NUT CAKE. 

One cupful Good Luck margarine; i% cupfuls sugar; few 
grains salt; l / 2 teaspoonful vanilla; Y*> cupful milk; 3 eggs separ- 
ated; 2 cupfuls flour; i cupful chopped walnut meats; 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder. Beat the margarine to a cream and stir in 
the sugar, salt, vanilla and egg yolks. Mix together the nut meats, 
flour and baking powder, add to mixture alternately with the milk. 
Lastly fold in the egg whites, which should be beaten stiff, and 
bake in a tube tin about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. Cover 
with boiled or confectioner's frosting. 

HONEY CUP CAKES. 

One-third cupful Good Luck margarine ; l /& cupful sugar ; two 
eggs; y$ cupful honey; 2 1-8 cupfuls flour; 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder; juice and rind of Y-Z lemon; % teaspoonful salt; ^4 cupful 
nut meats, broken. Cream margarine, and add sugar gradually. 
Stir in lemon and add eggs beatten light. Mix together flour, salt 
and baking powder, add alternately to cake mixture with honey, and 
bake either as a loaf or cup cakes. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Two eggs; 5 tablespoonfuls sugar; ^ 4 cup milk; 3 cups flour; 
i tablespoonful butter; 2 heaping teaspoonfuls yeast powder. Cov- 
er top with apples, peaches or apricots, if desired ; sprinkle sugar, 
cinnamon and butter on top before baking. 

Mrs. Ferd Kaufman, Catherine Coles Sunshine Bureau. 

72 



For "Ant Riddance" Use 

"Scoot" 

tlu> great Ant Chaser 25c at your 
dealers'. Satisfaction guaran- 
teed by the sole owners and 
manufacturers. 

I. L. LYONS & CO., Ltd. 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



USE WICOMB'S IPECAC TOOTH PASTE 

antiseptic, prophylactic, cleans- 
ing, large size tubes for sale at 
all Drug Stores and toilet count- 
ers. 

The Wiconib Dentifrice Go. 

\EW ORLEANS, LA. 




Crcmo La Valliere 

Every wom,an who desires a soft, 
clear and velvety skin, a beautiful com- 
plexion, can gratify her desires by using 
this preparation. It is an ideal Toilet 
Cream. 

It will not grow hair. 

Applied to the face before using Pow- 
der will cause the Powder to adhere to 
the skin. 

Will prevent chaps and wind burns 
while picknicking or automobiling. 

Sold everywhere by first class dealers, 
price 25c and 50c per jar. 

Dr. Wylie's Pure Food Laboratory 
pronounced it of unusual purity. 



Phone Main 4833 



Central Laundry Co, 

Limited 

Dry Cleaners 

Calliope & S. Liberty Streets 
NEW ORLEANS 



LeBlanc & Railey 

Limited 

Fire, Marine, Accident & Liability 
Insurance Managers. 

814 GRAVIER STREET 

INew Orleans, La. 



TROY LAUNDRY CO, 

Limited 

412, 418,420 and 422 
Nroth Rampart St. 

Central Office: 

113 St. Charles St. 
Phone Main 625 

HIGH GRADE WORK QUICK 
SERVICE 



Kolb's Tavern 

Hotel and Cafe, Main 263 
125 ST. CHARLES ST. 

NEW ORLEANS 

CONRAD KOLB, Proprietor. 



The First National Bank 

Of Lafayette, La. 

Capital and Surplus $200,000 
Total Resources over $1,000,000 

Meniher-IJank of Federal Reserve 
System 

United States Depository 

(lives [iromjit and efficient service to its 
uriLrs and patrons. A liberal rate 
i>f interest paid on Time Certificates. 



73 



ECONOMICAL FRUIT CAKE. (No eggsQ. 

One cup sugar; 2 cups seeded raisins; 14 teaspoon salt; i tea- 
spoon cinnamon ; y 2 cup ground nut meats ; i cup water ; y 2 cup lard 
'or butter); 14 grated nutmeg; i teaspoon ground clover; l /z cup 
chopped citron. Place all in saucepan and boil 3 minutes ; let it get 
thoroughly cool, then add 2 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. Grease and line baking pan and bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. C. A. Meissner, 
I4th Ward Civic League. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Two eggs, well beaten; 2 teaspoonfuls Royal Baking Powder; 
i teaspoonful vanilla flavoring; 2 cups sugar; 4 cups of well sifted 
flour. Slightly grease your longest biscuit pans, pour in very thin ; 
when done, turn out in fresh damp towel ; spread in your favorite 
jelly and roll quickly. 

K. L. Anderson, 

N. O. F. C. 
LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups sugar; 3 cups flour; i cup water; l / 2 cup butter; 4 
eggs. Mix sugar, eggs and butter, add flour, water and one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Mrs. C. A. Meissner, 

ECONOMICAL SPICED GINGER CAKE. 

One tablespoonful of butter ; one level cup of brown sugar ; two 
eggs; three-quarters of cup of black molasses; three-quarters cup of 
v\ arm ater, into which put half a teaspoonful of soda; then add a tea- 
spoonful each of ginger, allspice, cinnamon, and nutmeg; one cup of 
raisins or currants ; add three ctipfuls (level) of flour, measured 
before sifting. Put together in order named, pour into pan about 
eight by twelve inches square in which lay a paper greased with 
lard or snowdrift, baked one hour on the top shelf of the oven of a 
gas stove, using one flame turned on only half force, it should be 
a perfect cake. 

To Glaze With Chocolate : One cup of powdered sugar into, 
which put three tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and one teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla, beat until smooth and put on cake as soon as it is 
taken from the oven. 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham, 

SUFFRAGE CAKE. 

The whites of three eggs, one cup of powdered sugar, half a 
cup of butter, two teacupfuls of flour measured after first sifting, 
half a cup of milk, one and one-half level teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Cream the butter, add 
the sugar; cream again, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; 
beat one-third of the whites into the butter and sugar mixture, then 
one-third of the milk and then one-third of the flour, sifted the sec- 

74 



THE 

Burkenroad-Goldsmith Go, 

Limited 
New Orleans, U. S. A. 

WHOLESALE GROCERS 

We Specialize in RICE 



Distributors "UWANTA" Brand 
Pure Food Products. 

Send Us Your Orders. 

J. B. Camors & Co. 

WHOLESALE GROCERS 

Importers and Exporters 
Caniors Block New Orleans, 




SEE NEW ORLEANS HARBOR 

30 MILE TRIP DAILY AT 2:30 P. M. ON 

Steamer "SIDNEY 

FIVE LARGE OBSERVATION DECKS. 
COMPETENT LECTURERS GOOD ORCHESTRA 

CANAL STREET DOCKS 
Office: 425 Natchez St., Main 1475 




WEISS. FRANK & Co., LTD. 

WHOLESALE GROCERS 
NEW ORLEANS. 

Agents Tetley's Celebrated English Teas. 



CRESCENT CITY CARBONATE CO. 

Manufacturers of 
CARBONIC ACID GAS, FRUITS, SYRUPS AND FLAVORS. 

Office and Factory 

CELESTE AND RELIGIOUS STREETS. 
Phone Jackson 1443 New Orleans, La. 



Are YOU one of the many modern housekeepers who send the 
family's clothes to this laundry? If not, investigate our methods and 
results. 

Phones Galvez 474-475 

THE CHALMETTE 

The world's Largest Laundry and Dry Cleaning Establishment. 



The Progressive Piano Store 
extends its best \v ishes to the 

New Orleans Federation of Clubs 

and invites the members to visit 
here when in the market for a 
Piano. 

J, P, Simmons Piano Go,, 

INCORPORATED 

933 CANAL STREET 



Audubon Building 




POOL 



WOMEN and CHILDREN 

Dancing Studio. 

Mrs. Lilian Lewis, 

2840 Camp St. Tel. Up. 3153. 



75 



ond time; continue until all the flour, milk and beaten whites have 
been used,, flavor, and last, put in the yeast powder. Bake in mod- 
erate oven, place on top shelf of oven if gas stove is used, take about 
thirty-five minutes to bake. Make a frosting of the three yolks 
and a cup of powdered sugar. Decorate with tiny two-inch dolls 
dressed in yellow ribbon, place a tiny banner in the hands bearing 
the device "We want votes for women." 

Mrs. (E. J.) Eleanor G. Graham, 

EGOLESS FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar; i heaping tablespoonful lard; i tea- 
spoonful cinnamon; 2 cups water; 4 cups raisins; i teaspoonful 
cloves. Boil all together for three minutes and when cool, add the 
following: i teaspoon soda (dissolved in hot water); 4 cups of 
flour; i teaspoonful baking powder; a pinch of salt. Bake in slow 
oven for one hour. 

Mrs. C. A. Meissner, Woman's Exposition Club. 

FRUIT LOAF. 

Two cups sugar; 1/4 cup milk; i tablespoon butter. Boil till it 
forms a soft ball in water. Add to syrup : i pound dates, seeded ; 
i cup nuts chopped fine ; add to syrup nad cook till dates are melted. 
Pour into damp cloth and knead into loaf. When cold, slice thin. 

Ethel Levy. 
POUND CAKE, 1850 A. D. 

One pound sugar; i pound butter; i pound sifted flour; 12 eggs; 
i grated nutmeg; i glass wine (home-made); 2 tablespoonfuls rose 
water. Cream butter and sugar, then mix in the well beaten yolks 
of the eggs, nutmeg, wine and rosewater. Stir in the flour and 
last of all the well beaten whites of eggs. Bake till light brown. 
This cake may be kept for weeks in covered earthen jar, if letter 
paper dipped in brandy be put over cake before it is placed in the jar. 

M. C. Walker, 
OATMEAL CAKES. 

One tablespoonful butter; 2 eggs; i cup sugar; 2 l / 2 cups rolled 
oats; i teaspoon baking powder; % teaspoon salt. Flavor with 
almond extract. Prepare batter as for cake, drop with teaspoon 
on buttered tin. M. C. Walker, Baldwin, La. 

SOUR MILK CAKE. 

One cup sugar, i cup sour milk; l / 2 cup butter, 2 cups flour, i 
teaspoonful soda ; 2 tablespoonfuls cocoa. Mix sugar and cocoa, 
add butter and cream together, then the sour milk and flour. Flav- 
oring if desired. To be baked as a loaf or sheet cake. 

M. C. Walker, 
DATE CAKE EGOLESS. 

One cup sugar; y 2 cup butter; i cup sour milk; i cup chopped 
raisins and i cup dates (dredged with flour before adding to cake 
batter); 2 cups flour; */> teaspoon cloves; i teaspoon soda. Pre- 
pare cake batter as for ordinary cake. Mrs. W. Walker. 

-76- 



A. P. Loyacano N. Manale 

Central Market Co. 

Phone Main 4698 
1320 Canal Street 

Cor. North Liberty 



COMPLIMENTS OF 



Burke Electrical Works 



Ltd. 



Compliments 



Fabachsr's Rathskeller 



410*412-414 St. Charles Street. 



ARKANSAS CITY MILLING CO. 

Arkansas City, Kansas 

KANSAS DIAMOND. 

CRESCENT FLOURS 

World's Best Hard Soft Wheats 

Southern Office : 

318 MAGAZINE STREET 

New Orleans, La. 



Kodak Films Developed Free. 

Bennett Photo Supply Go. 

No. 313 St. Charles Street 

Few Doors Above St. Charles Hotel 

Kodaks, Stationery, Magazines, Souvenirs 
and City View Postals 



L. M. Dalgarn 

Civil Engineer and Contractor 

402 Title Guarantee Bldg. 

Baronne & Gravier Sts. 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



C. C. Hartwell Co. 

Lighting Fixtures 

GIFT SHOP 
213 Baronne Street 



Compliments of 



Louis (J,Stumpf,D,D,S< 



We Are Leaders in Our Business 
CHAS. HIRSCH 

Entertainments Furnished 

With China, Glass, Cutlery, 
Linens, Etc. 

of a " Chairs 1 " " 1 "* 



Tables 



Compliments of 



A FRIEND 



kinds 



and Vienna 



S. Jerolleman 

CAKE FLOUR 

Directions: Add tablespoon butter 
and cup of water. 



L. P. Hackenjose, President 
F. R. Fox, Sect.-Treas 

SWISS LAUNDRY CO. 

1010 GRAVIER ST. 
Send Us a Trial Bundle 

Telephone 218 New Orleans, La. 



COAL 
BY TON OR CARLOAD 

We Also Deliver a Dollar's Worth 
400 Sticks Mixed Wood $1.OO 

SCHARFENSTEIN & SON 

Main 2657 and 5107 
1121 Clara St., cor. Calliope 



Established 1875 

Henry C. Schaumburg: 

Confectionery, Ice Cream 

Agent for Maillard's Chocolates and Bon Bons 
and Allegretti Chocolate Creams Agent 
for Imported French Bon Bons and Chocolates 

and Assorted French Fruits 
A spccializer in Frecch Dishes Mail orders 

promptly attended to. 
829 Canal Street NEW ORLEANS. LA. 



Commissioner 



M. L. Alexander 

State of Louisiana 

Department of Conservation 

NEW ORLEANS 



Gulf & Southern Steamship Co. 

Frtight and Passenger Service Between 
NEW ORLEANS and TAMPA 

One Way $17.50 Round Trip $30 

For reservations and other information 

apply to DAVID B. PENN. General Mngr. 

707 Gravier St. New Orleans 



77 



A r ELICIOUS POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar; i pound butter, and the grated rind of one 
lemon; must be well creamed, taking about 20 minutes; to this, add 
10 eggs beaten together until perfectly smooth. After kneading 
sharply for 10 minutes, add one pound of flour, one wine glass of 
brandy, }/ 2 teaspoonful mace and 2 teaspoonfuls rosewater. Mix 
again for five minutes and put into a slow oven to bake. When 
cake is cold, ice with boiled icing. Do not serve this cake until 
a day or two old. (This recipe is fifty years old). 

Mrs. Marie D. Bullitt, 

DEVILS FOOD CAKE. 

Park Part : One cup grated chocolate, l / 2 \ cup sweet milk, i 
cup (brown or white) sugar, yolk of one egg, - teaspoon of vanilla, 
cook slowly until melted ; cool. 

Light Part : i cup sugar, l / 2 cup butter, 2 cups flour, l / 2 cup 
sweet milk, 2 eggs ; cream butter and sugar. Beat in yolks of eggs, 
add milk, sifted flour, whites of eggs ; beaten stiff, beat all together. 
Add dark part. Last add one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in l /$ 
cup of warm water. This makes 3 layers. Use any filling desired. 

Bluebirds. 

R. E. LEE CAKE OR DESSERT. 

One pound eggs, l / 2 ' pound flour, i pound sugar, i teaspoon van- 
illa. Beat yolks and whites seperate, each very light. Beat the 
sugar gradually into the beaten yolks, add the extract, half the beat- 
en whites and half the sifted flour, folding in gently, then the other 
half of each. Have ready delicately greased (pure lard) square 
layer cake pans; half fill pans and bake in moderately hot oven. 

Icing: Whites of three eggs, 3 cups granulated sugar, i l / 2 
cups hot water, i teaspoon lemon extract. Mix water and sugar 
and boil without further stirring until it spins a thread or soft ball 
when tried in cold water. Have the whites beaten to a stiff froth 
in a bowl ; pour the icing in a thin stream on to the whites, beating 
all the time, then add flavoring. When ready to spread on cake, 
pour off enough to ice the outside of cake and place over a pot of 
hot water until ready to ice. 

Filling: Three oranges peeled, seeded pulp cut free of mem- 
brane; 3 ripe bananas, i cocoanut, peel brown skin off and grate; 
more of each can be used if desired. Spread some icing on one 
layer, place evenly pieces of the picked pieces of orange, trail over 
this a little more icing; then slice thin rounds of bananas and cover 
with thin layer of icing, then lightly sprinkle three tablespoonfuls 
of cocoanut and gently press the top layer of cake, cover the top 
and sides with thick layer of icing and sprinkle well with cocoanut. 
If to be served as a dessert, whip one pint of cream, cut in even 
preferred-size pieces. Cover top with liberal help of whipped 
cream, garnish with cherries or strawberries. This is prettier if 
used the day it is made, delicious as long as it lasts. 

Mrs. Clarence W. Willson, 

-78- 



Spearing & Co. 

(Established 1817.) 

SAIL MAKERS 

AWNINGS, FLAGS, TARPAULINS and 

TENTS 

Corner CANAL and TCHOUPITOULAS 

Cmuberland Phone M 3891 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Dugan Piano Co. 

914 Canal Street 



BRUCE POULTRY & SEED COMPANY 

Everything for Poultrymen and 

Gardeners 
SEEDS, INCUBATORS, FENCING 

LIVE STOCK 
732 POYDRAS ST. NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Cosmopolitan Hotel 

JAMES LYNCH, Manager 

European Plan. 

Bourbon & Royal Sts., near Canal 
NEW ORLEANS. 



Thos. T. Reboul 

Importer and Dealer in 
FINE TEAS AND COFFEES 
Roasting Mills 531 Frenchmen Street 
Office and Storeroom: 

533 to 541 Frenchmen Street. 
NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Williams-Richardson Co., Ltd. 

WHOLESALE 

DRY GOODS aud NOTIONS 

MEN'S FURNISHING GOODS 

200-215 Magazine Street 

Phone Main 27 1O 



Vecino's Oyster Cocktail Sauce 

AWARDED BLUE RIBBON AT STATE 

FAIR 1916 
IMPROVES ALL DISHES 

R. VECINO 

Phones Hemlock 1221-1222 
DUMAINE AND RAMPART STREETS 

Shipped or Delivered Anywhere. 



Adam Lorch, Jr., Mgr. 

The Parcel Transfer Co. 

Limited 



OARSAM BROS, COAL COMPANY, Inc. 

CALLIOPE AND MAGNOLIA STREETS 
COAL, COKE AND ANTHRACITE 

Telephones: Main 2603 1552 3909. 
Hemlock 338 Uptown 587. 



Phone Main 4343 
Feldman's Original Antique 

Emporium 

The Largest and Finest Collection 
435-437 Royal Street. 
NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



PHONE MAIN 49 OR 50 

Taxi Cabs and Autos to Hire at All 

Hours to See the City. 

TAKE COOKE'S TOURS 

COOKE'S AUTO TAXICAB COMPANY 

A. M. COOKE, Prop. 
COMMON AND DRYADES STREETS. 



COMPLIMENTS 
OF 



Louis C Carvalho 



RELIABLE MERCHANDISE AT 
REASONABLE PRICES 

Convenient Terms if Desired 

WHITE BROS CO. 

024 CANAL ST. 

'Greatest Watch & Diamond 
House South" 



The Hotel Lafayette 

Under the personal direction of 
ALBERT ASCHAFFENBURG, 

President 
FIREPROOF 
New Orleans, Louisiana 



Send Your Hand Work to 

Excelsior Hand Laundry 

NO. 750 FOUCHER ST. 

Uptown 2057 
MRS. D. A. MACDONALD, 

Proprietor 
914 CANAL ST. 



A. Vittur & Co., Ltd. 

Wo Sharpen Anything Needing 
an Edge 

Phone Main 4058 
307 St. Charles St. New Orleans 



79 



FRUIT LOAF. 

One pint milk, \ l /2 tablespoonfuls corn starch, 2 eggs, 4 table- 
spoonfuls sugar. Scald milk in double boiler, then add corn starch, 
(previously dissolved in cold milk), yolks of eggs and sugar. Stir 
until smooth and thick. Remove from stove and stir in: l / 2 cup 
crumbled maccaroons, 2 tablespoonfuls Maraschino cherries, 2 table- 
spoonfuls broken walnut or pecan meats. Turn into mold and set 
on ice. Serve cold with whipped or plain cream. 

M. C. Walker, 

NUT CAKE. 

\S 

One pound flour, I pound sugar; y 2 pound butter, 6 eggs, l /^ 

teaspoon salt, i grated nutmeg, i l /i pounds raisins, i quart pecan 
meat, I gill whiskey, ( l / 2 teacup full). Cream butter and sugar, 
add yolks of eggs, one by one, adding beaten whites last. Flour 
nuts and raisins well to prevent sinking to bottom. The secret of 
success in this cake is to beat the batter for nearly an hour. Bake 
four hours in slow oven. 

Mrs. Jno. T. Benedict, 
Travelers' Aid Society. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE. 

Five eggs, (i whole egg, the other four separated), 2 cups su- ' 
gar; i cup milk; 3 or 4 tablespoons of cocoa or bitter chocolate, put 
on stove and let come to boiling point; i% cups flour, i teaspoon 
yeast powder, vanilla. Bake in two layers and put chocolate icing, 
between layers. 

Mrs. Eugene H. Gutman. 

AUNT HARRIETTE'S NUT CAKE. 

One cup butter; i l / 2 cup sugar (powdered); 4 eggs; 3 cups 
flour; i cup raisins; i cup currants; i cup pecans; i heaping tea- 
spoon allspice; i 1 /^ teaspoon cinnamon; l / 2 teaspoon cloves; %. cup 
milk; 2 l / 2 teaspoons baking powder; ]/ 2 cup brandy. Cream sugar 
and butter, add eggs (beaten), then milk; add baking powder with 
YZ the amount of flour and beat well. The other half the flour is 
used to mix with the raisins, currants and pecans. Add spices 
and brandy to egg mixture, then the raisins, currants, etc., and mix 
well. Bake in moderately hot oven with even heat from 45 to 55 
minutes. 

Mildred Crumb. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar; 4 eggs; 2 cups flour; 2 teaspoons 
baking powder; y 2 cup boiling water put in last. Beat eggs thor- 
oughly, then add sugar, flour and baking powder, then hot water. 
Bake same as angels food. 

Mrs. J. M. Dresser. 



THE GRUNEWALD 



NEW ORLEANS 




The South' a Most Magnificent Hotel. European Plan. 

ACCOMMODATIONS FOR TWELVE HUNDRED GUESTS 

Three Restaurants in Connection, Including the 

World Renowned ''CAVE" 



DKIXK 



Delicious NI-KO 
TEA 

A. KOPPEL CO. 



A. Lubritz 

LADIES' TAILOR 

829 N. Dorgenois Street 
Phone Hemlock 1890-L 

NEW ORLEANS 



M. M. Carnahan 

2204 Calhoun St. 
Sweet Alilk, Sweet Cream, 
Cream Cheese, Butter and. . 
Buttermilk. 



The greatest conveniences of modern 
times are electrical. Let us send you 
a fan or an electric iron and prove it. 

The Electric Gift Shop 

CONSUMERS ELECTRIC LIGHT AND 

POWER COMPANY. 

Main 3500 116 Baronne Street. 

"COURTESY FIRST." 



PA-POOSE BOTT BEER 

Manufactured by 

E. A. Zatarain & Sons 

922-24-36 Valmont Street. 
NEW ORLEANS, LA. 
Phone Uptown 2717 



How To Solve the ANT PROBLEM: 
USE 

"SCOOT!" 

THE GREAT ANT-CHASER 

25c EVERYWHERE. 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. 



SOL WEISS 

LAW AND NOTARIAL OFFICES 

618 Maison Blanche Building 
NEW ORLEANS, LA. 

Phone Main 3520 



MISS A. MURPHY 

5 TULANE ARCADE 
Telephone Main 4983 
ARTISTS' MATERIAL, PICTURE 
FRAMING, REED-RAPHIA RE- 
LIGIOUS ARTICLES, CANDLES 
NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



H. J. RQBBSERT 

Optical Specialist 

205-207 Carondelet St. 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 

Phone Main 457O 



PHONE JACKSON 1300 

Horse Shoe Pickle Works, Limited 

Manufacturers and Packers of 

PICKLES, MUSTARD, SAUCES 

CATSUPS, PEPPER SAUCE, ETC. 

VINEGAR A SPECIALTY 

Nos. 1907-1909-1911-1913 Chippewa Street 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



COMPLIMENTS OF 

Charles Falck 



REPAIRING OF ANTIQUE FURNI- 
TURE, PORCELAIN FANS, JEW- 
ELRY AND LACES 

EVERYTHING IN THE ANTIQUE LINE 
11 to 4 at 415 Bourbon Street. 

Mme. L. A. Tassin 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



Woodville 6: Woodville 

Law and Notarial Offices 

1017 JMaison Blanche Building. 
Telephone Main 90 New Orleans 



Atlanta Phone Main 3172 

New Orleans 

R. J. Derbes, Jr. 

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT 

AUDITOR 
FACTORY COST EXPERT 

Office 
500-A Interstate Bldg. New Orleans 



P. McGILL 

THE LABOR RECORD 

President and General Manager. 

Official Organ 

CENTRAL TRADES AND LABOR COUNCIL 

LOCAL ORGAN OK THE A. F. OF L. 

Main Office: McClosky Building, 

320 SI. CHARLES STREET 
Phone Main 2187 New Orleans, La. 



Mrs. L. A. Bidault 

Agent 
CALIFORNIA PERFUME CO. 

A Full Line of Toilet and Household 

Articles. Creams a Specialty. 

4817 LAUREL STREET 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. 



8l 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of grated chocolate, or two squares of unsweetened 
Baker's chocolate; I egg; i cup sugar; i l / 2 cup milk, i large spoon- 
ful butter; i teaspoon baking powder and i teaspoon soda sifted into 
2 cups of flour. Place i cup of milk, the yolk of the egg and the 
chocolate in a pan on the fire and cook until it forms a paste, but 
keep stirring same ; remove from the fire and add butter, sugar and 
the other half cup milk, with the flour, salt and vanilla. Bake in a 
long loaf pan. Ice with a white of the egg made into an icing. Ice 
in pan and leave it until it gets cold. 

Mrs. Ben Isaacs, Pres. Bluebirds. 
SILVER CAKE. 

Whites of 8 eggs ; 2 cups of sugar ; i cup butter ; i cup sweet 
milk; 3 full cups of flour; i heaping teaspoonful of Royal Baking 
powder. Flavor i teaspoon lemon extract. Sift sugar, and add 
butter beat to a light cream ; add milk, then flour, sift flour several 
times, having add the baking powder and lastly fold in the whites 
well beaten and extract. Bake about 50 minutes. 

Mrs. J. M. Zachary, 

MISSISSIPPI CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter; 2 eggs, drop whole one at a time and beat 
thoroughly; i cup sour cream; i teaspoonful soda, beat until it is a 
foam; i 1 /? cups flour; two squares of bitter chocolate; i cup nut 
meat well floured. Mix well and bake in square tins; make icing 
of whites of two eggs ; two cups of sugar and five cents worth of 
marshmallows. Mrs. I. W. Hoskins, 

PECAN CAKE. 

One-half cup butter; i cup sugar; l / 2 cup sweet milk; 2 large 
or three small eggs ; 2 level teaspoons baking powder ; 2 cups pecan 
meats chopped fine; 2 teacups sifted flour; i teaspoon vanilla or 
lemon extract. Stir butter and sugar and cream, add extract and 
yolks of eggs, beat again, add milk and flour alternately; in last 
half cup flour add baking powder. Beat whites stiff and stir light- 
ly. Lastly add pecan meats and bake in slow oven for an hour. 
Sprinkle little flour over nuts to keep from sticking. 

Mrs. Ben Isaacs, 

GRANDMOTHER'S KUGLE. 

Soak half a five-cent loaf of hite bread in cold water. When 
soft, squeeze out every bit of water, put in a bowl, add i l /> cups 
goose fat cut in small pieces, 10 whole eggs, 2 cupfuls of flour, half 
cupful of sugar, i handful cracker meal, 3 apples, 2 pears cut in 
small pieces; two dozens raisins with the seeds removed, salt to 
taste, a tiny pinch of pepper, ]/ 4 teaspoonful each cinnamon and all- 
spice, mix all well together and pour into an iron pan that has the 
bottom well covered with goose fat, stick a few pieces of cut apples 
in the top of the pudding, pour a clipperful of cold water over all, 
place in the oven to bake. Bake slowly, usually 5 or 6 hours ; if 
the water cooks out before it is ready to brown, add more. Bake 
brown top and bottom. Mrs. Chas. J. Altman, 

82 



-.I~PIOAY 



.yUM 



HOTEL PESOTO 

C. MILLION DOLLA'R rlpME > 

-: N E^ORLE Arts '?$ 



OCCUPIES. AN ENTIRE SQU XXRE- BARONNE & . PERDI DO 

? Wife '*:... /:-. FAMOUS' F.OR l:T.SV-,rCReO.|t:e i; iC'UIS : l,N.^:'/.|vW.>.r :. 



Louisiana Printing Company 



LIMITED 



Printing 
Ruling 
Bi nding 



Phone Main 1929 

624-26 Carondelet St. 



Morton Salt 



"Ask Your 
Grocer" 



When It Rains 
It Pours 




E. L. Chappuis 



STRAND BLDG. 



.QUALITY 



\ 



SIPSEY 

COAL 

EXCELS 



SERVICE: 



That Glean Goal 

No Rock! No Slate! 
tfo Clinkers! 

for Families, Facto- 
ries, Steamships. 

W. G. COYLE&CO., Inc. 

Phones Main 2125-26 




Broadway 

Mattress Works 

Twenty-five years 
making and repair- 
ing all grades of 
mattresses and box 

springs. 

Felt Mattresses 
Electrically Cleaned 

All Work 
Guaranteed. 

J. ,J. REED, Prop. 

HEMLOCK 1186 



P,H, 




Distributor of 

Mexican Palm Hats, Baskets, Vanilla, 
Coffee, Chicle-Gum, Anise Seed, Cummin 
Seed, Limes, Hides, Honey, Beans, 
Garlic, Cocoa, Wax, Llnaloe Oil, Medic- 
inal Plants and other Tropical Products 
and Latin-American Manufactures 

P. 0. BOX 1456 PHONE, MAIN 1914 

610 S. PETERS ST. 
Representing American Manufacturers 



Heimel Grocery 
Company, Inc. 

BAROXXE & MELPOMENE STS. 

Dealers in 
Luncheon Delicatessen 

(Duality Groceries. 
Bergs Kosher Sausage 
Boiled Hams Our Specialty 



63 



PHONES 
JACKSON 



64 



83- 



BROWN STONE FRONT CAKE. 

One cup white suger ; l / 2 cup sweet milk; y 2 cup butter; 2*4 
cups flour; 3 eggs well beaten and 2 teaspoons of baking powder. 
Filling: Half cake chocolate; I cup of milk; i cup sugar; yolk of I 
egg. Boil until quite thick and set off to cool with teaspoonful of 
vanilla, hen cool pour into batter and mix well. Bake in layers : 
Put together with plain icing or marshmallow filling made with 2 
cups of sugar, whites of 2 eggs, and half cup water; when just about 
done, drop in }/ pound of marshmallows that have been heated in 
stove. Mrs. M. S. Meyers, 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound browned flour; i pound butter; i pound sugar; 2 
pounds raisins seed and chopped; 2 pounds currants; i pound cit- 
ron ; i pound dried figs ; i pound dried dates ; y? pound blanched 
almonds chopped fine; y 2 pound pecans; V 2 pound candied lemon 
peel ; l / 2 pound candied orange peel ; i teaspoon each baking pow- 
der; cinnamon and nutmeg; V 2 teaspoon cloves (ground); 9 eggs; 
3 wine glasses brandy ; 2 wine glasses sherry. Cream butter, su- 
gar and yolk of eggs, add flour and baking powder. Fold in the 
beaten whites of eggs, add cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Mrs. W. D. Clayton, 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

Grate five raw potatoes and mix with a teaspoonful of salt, 
large spoon of flour and two eggs. Fry to a light brown in hot 
deep lard. Mrs. J. Michaelis, 2nd Vice Pres. City Federation. 

PECAN TART. 

Whites of 8 eggs, beaten stiff; \y 2 cups granulated sugar; i l / 2 
cups chopped pecans, rind and juice of a lemon; 3/ cup cracker 
meal ; i teaspoon baking powder. Bake slowly in layers or spring 
form. Mrs. Leon C. Simon, 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE CAKE. 

Cream: Two tablespoonfuls butter; 3 egg yolks; 1^/4 cups 
granulated sugar ; add y pound ground bitter chocolate ; ^4 CU P 
milk; y 2 . cup nuts, salted and chopped fine; i?4 cups flour; 2 tea- 
spoons vanilla; ^2 cup raisins floured; i l /> teaspoons baking pow- 
der; 3 whites of eggs beaten last. Either bake in three layers, or 
in long pans, cut in squares and ice. 

FROSTING CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

Boil until thick : *4 pound ground chocolate ; -)4 tablespoons 
milk; i cup sugar. Add 4 tablespoons cream, add enough pow- 
dered sugar, beat until proper consistency; add chopped nuts (eith- 
er walnuts or pecans), 2 tablespoons vanilla. 

WHITE ICING. 

White of i egg beaten with i l / 2 cups sugar; 2 tablespoons cold 
water; \y 2 cups granulated sugar; juice of l /2 lemon; add lemon 
juice and water last. 

-84- 



The John Van 
Cooking Ranges 

Now serving in Xe\\ 
Orleans between 800 
and 1000 residences and 
over 50 hotels, restau- 
rants, clubs, hospitals, 
asylums, convents, col- 
leges, etc. 

Equipped with water 
backs to supply hot 
water. 

Write ns for list of users 

and see what they think 

about John Van Cooking 

Ranges. 






LI- - 



Plumes Main 2140, 2147 :111( ' 2I 4 lS 

Manion & Co. 

Agents 

(Yesivnt Klectric Sanitary Dish 

\\"asher and Jobbers of 

Plumbing, Waterworks 

and Mill Supplies. 

622-630 Baronne Street 

"Visit Our New Show Room of 

Plumbing Goods and Model 

Kitchens" 



BOILED WHITE FROSTING. 

One cup granulated sugar; 1-3 cup water. Beat the white of 

1 egg, add sugar and water. Boil to thread. 

Mrs. Louis Hausmann, 
STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Any plain cake batter, baked in layers. Filling: In a mixing 
bowl put the white of one egg, a cup of granlated sugar and a cup 
of crushed berries. Beat all together with an egg beaten until 
very light, then spread between the cakes. Powdered sugar or 
icing on top of the cake. 

SPRITZ. 

Cream I pound butter, add 8 heaping tablespoons sugar, 2 eggs ; 
grated peel of lemon; half cup ground almond; i l /2 quarts of flour; 
mix before measuring. Rool and cut in shape. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

TAFFY CANDY. 

Put a pound of granulated sugar, a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut and a teaspoon of vinegar and enough water to cover, 
into a saucepan, stir until the sugar is dissolved. Lift a little with 
a spoon and drop into cold water. If you can roll it into a ball, it 
is sufficinetly boiled. Take off fire, then add vanilla to taste; 
(chopped nuts can be added). Turn into buttered pan and when 
cool enough to handle, pull with tips of fingers until hard. 

Julia Levy, 
SUNSHINERS FAVORITES. 

Five eggs, omitting 2 whites for snow ; i cup butter ; 5 cups 
flour, before sifting, or six after; 3 teaspoons baking powder; i l / 2 
cups milk ; % pound citron ; i cup nut meats, either pecans or wal- 
nuts ; 3 cups sugar, white or brown ; V 2 cup chocolate, melted or 
grated; i teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves, allspice; *4 orange and 
lemon peel candied; i cup raisins, cut and floured; juice and grated 
rind of one lemon ; i cup molasses, beat in l /\ teaspoon soda ; *4 
cup vinegar. Can be baked in large pans and cut in squares, or 
can be baked in muffin pans. 

Mrs. Louis Hausman, 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup butter; i cup brown sugar; i cup molasses; 3 eggs; 

2 cups fine oatmeal ; i heaving teaspoonful soda dissolved in 2-3 
cup boiling water, i cup pecans, raisins, currants ; a teaspoon of 
the different spices; salt to taste and add sufficient flour to make a 
stiff dough. Drop in little pats in a greased dripping pan far apart. 

Sarah Isaacs, 
OATMEAL COOKIES. 

(Delicious) 

Four eggs; 2-3 cup butter; 2 cups sugar; \y 2 cups of closely 
chopped nuts; 2 cups rolled oats, about half 10 cent can) ; half cup 
flour; 2 level teaspoons baking powder. Cream the butter and su- 

-85- 



gar, add the beaten eggs and chopped nuts. Mix the baking pow- 
der with flour and add to oatmeal. Mix all ingredients together, 
making a stiff dough. Drop with a tablespoon small portions of 
the dough about three inches apart in a buttered pan and bake in 
hot oven. Mrs. Harry Burke, 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

One cup sugar; y 2 cup molasses; l / 2 cup coffee; 3^ cups flour: 
;; i teaspoon soda; l />\ teasueen baking powder; l / 2 cup seeded 
ns; y> cup chopped nuts; l / 2 teaspoon cinnamon. Drop in tins. 

Mrs. ]. M. Dresser. 

LEP KUCHEN OR SPICE CAKE. 

Seven eggs, reserve whites of 2 for icing; i pound light brown 
sugar; 3^2 cups flour; i cup dark molasses; l / 2 cup each of finely 
shredded citron, blanched almonds and pecans, grated rind an ' 
Juice of i lemon ; 2 heaping teaspoons of baking powder ; l / 2 te 
spoon nutmeg, and i teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and a 
spice. Beat eggs and sugar together, then add gradually flotu 
other ingredients last. Will fill 2 large baking pans. Bake slow 
fire, hen still warm cut in small squares and ice while still warm. 

Mrs. Emily Grunewald, 

DROP SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup sugar; half cup butter or other shortening; i cup sour 
milk; 2. l / 2 cups flour; i teaspoonful soda; l / 2 teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Prepare batter as for cake, 
drop with dessert spoon on buttered tin. Mrs. L. They. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses; y 2 cup shortening; i cup sugar; i egg; i 
teaspoon ginger and i of baking soda. Flour enough to make 
dough stiff enough to roll. Bake quickly. 

QUEREN'S FRUIT COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter; $4 cup sugar, granulated; i cup molasses; 
i cup raisins; i cup pecans; i cup currants; l / 2 cup dried figs, 
(which is optional); $}/> cups flour; 4 eggs; i teaspoon of the dif- 
ferent spices ; 2 teaspoons yeast powder. Cream sugar and butter, 
add molasses and eggs. Put east powder and spices in flour be- 
fore sifting; add fruit last. Butter pans and drop by spoonful. 
Bake in a very slow oven. This recipe awarded first money prize 
and blue ribbon at National Live Stock Show, New Orleans, to 

Mrs. Fred Querens, Nov. n, 1916. 

DIVINITY FUDGE. 

Two cups sugar; l / 2 cup Caro corn syrup; l / 2 cup water. Cook 
until it hardens when dropped in water. into whites of two ei;^ 
until thick, add i cup chopped nuts. 

FUDGE. No. 2. 

Little over cup of sugar; V 2 cup condensed milk; l / 2 cup water, 
i heaping tablespoonful cocoa; i teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mrs. C. A. Meissner, 

86- 




CONTENTS 



Chapter. Pages. 

I MEASUREMENTS 5 - 8 

II CEREALS 9 - 12 

III BEVERAGES 13 - 17 

IV BREAD 18 - 20 

V BISCUITS, BREAKFAST CAKES AND PIES 21 - 24 

VI EGGS, OMELETS AND PANCAKES 25 - 27 

VII SOUPS 28 - 31 

VIII SAUCES 32 - 33 

IX FISH 33"38 

X MEATS 39 - 43 

XI VEGETABLES 44 - 47 

XII SALADS 48 - 53 

XIII PUDDINGS 54 - 61 

XIV ICE CREAMS AND ICES 62-69 

XV CAKES 70-86 





THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 
REFERENCE DEPARTMENT 



This book is under no circumstances to be 
taken from the Building 



form ^l(l 



