Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



'•§^|^*-^?|ili*' 



<-^i 






^. ■*» •*' •*' •*' •*• •*• •*' •■ 







Boston Equal Suffrage Association 

for Good Government 

I 67 Tremont Street, Boston 



The dd Comer Book 
Storei Inct 



FOOD for the WORKER 



THE FOOD VALUES AND COST 
OF A SERIES OF MENUS AND RECIPES 

FOR SEVEN WEEKS 



BY 

FRANCES STERN 

AND 

GERTRUDE T. SPITZ 

WITH A FOREWORD BY 
LAFAYETTE B. MENDEL 

Prtfgstor 0/ PhgftUlogical Chgmutry m tkt Sk^ffiM 
Seimii/U Sck^ 9/ YaU Umv^rti^ 




WHITCOMB & BARROWS 
Boston 191 7 



^l^ <.( 







/ 



7}u^sj /'V w ».e^ A^^^.^^/> 



» /< 



COFTRIGHT I917 

By Francis Stbrn 



TbOMAS Todd Co., Printbks 
14 Beacon Street, Boston, Masaachusetts 



I , 



AUTHORS' NOTE 

The original purpose of this volume — to put into available 
form a series of balanced menus for the use of the visiting 
housekeeper — was fostered while one of us (F. S.) was asso- 
ciated with Mr. William H. Pear, of the Boston Provident As- 
sociation. The belief of Dr. William P, Lucas, formerly of the 
Boston Dispensary, and now of the University of California, 
that such standardized menus should be supplied to outpatients, 
was a further incentive, so that eventually it became our aim to 
present in a simple general form a varied dietary of sufficient 
nutritious food at the lowest possible cost. Our dietary, as 
planned, presupposes skillful management or guidance, and has 
been necessarily limited in choice on account of the small 
amount of money that could be allowed for food. In order to 
satisfy the pleasures of the palate, there must be a larger 
income. 

This volume is offered in the hope that it may be suggestive 
in working out the difficult problem of making ends meet. An 
adequate wage or income, however, is the only economic basis 
on which to meet the requirements of life. 

To Miss Winifred Gibbs and other workers in social fields 
of home economics we feel a debt of obligation. Our thanks are 
due to Professor Mendel for his stimulating and friendly ad- 
vice, to Dr. Neuton Stem for helpful criticism, and to Miss 
Alice Bradley, of Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, Boston, 
for reading the recipes. To many of the social service group, 
to members of our immediate families, to all those authorities 
whose publications we have freely consulted, and to others who 
prefer to remain unnamed, we make grateful acknowledgment. 

But above all, from Ellen H. Richards, with whom we both 
have been associated, came the basic stimulus and inspiration 
which directed the thoughts and activities that made possible 
this little volume. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Authors* Note v 

Foreword i 

Introduction 5 

The problem 
The criteria 

Food Requirements • . 6 

Scientific standards 

Balance 

Basis of calculation 

Caloric requirements 

Bread 

Butter substitutes 

Milk for children 

Plan of Menus 15 

Substitution of food values 
Variety of food 
Food and nationality 
Man's lunch 

Supplies 20 

Wages and Food 22 

The Instructive Visiting Housekeeper 22 

Values for Cooked Foods 25 

Measures in common use 

Method of calculation 

Analysis and computation of a recipe 

Loss of weight in cooking 

Standard serving 

Substitution 

Conversion Tables 30 

Abbreviations 30 

Menus with Calculations 31 

Recipes — Classified List . . 59 

Recipes with Calculations and Directions for Cooking . 61 

Constants 113 

Food Groups . ., 114 

Supplies-* Amounts and Cost 115 

How to Build and Use a Fireless Cooker 120 

References . . . ^ 123 

Index 126 

Menu Synopsis for Seven Weeks Insert 

• • 
Vll 



FOREWORD 

In his "Familiar Letters on Chemistry," Liebig wrote more 
than half a century ago : "In choosing his food (when a choice 
is open to him) and in mixing the various articles of diet, man is 
glided by an unerring instinct, which rests on a law of nature. 

"This law prescribes to man, as well as to animals, a pro- 
portion between the plastic and non-nitrogenous constituents 
of his whole diet, which is fixed within certain limits, within 
which it may vary, according to his mode of life and state of 
body. This proportion may, in opposition to the law of nature 
and instinct, be altered beyond these limits by necessity of com- 
pulsion; but this can never happen without endangering the 
health, and injuring the bodily and mental powers of man. 

"It is the elevated mission of science to bring this law of 
nature home to our minds ; it is her duty to show why man and 
animals require such an admixture in the constituents of their 
food for the support of the vital functions, and what the in- 
fluences are which determine, in accordance with the natural 
law, changes in this admixture." ^ 

The study of the science of nutrition has been vigorously 
prosecuted since the day when this statement was made. In 
recent years the scientific workers in the United States, in par- 
ticular, have contributed largely to the increase in knowledge 
regarding the significant facts of metabolism and other factors 
essential to any adequate conception of the problems of diet. 
The fundamental basis for a rational approach to the food ques- 
tion, in its broadest aspects, is gradually being provided. 

The persistent cultivation of science finds a reward as 
well as an incentive in successful application to the exigencies 
of every-day life. It has long been realized that man is not 
permitted everywhere to give free play to the supposed un- 

^Von Liebig, Justus: Familiar Letters on Chemistry in its relatibn to 
Physiology, Dietetics, Agriculture, Commerce, and Political Economy. 
London. 1851. pp. $62, 363. 



2 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

erring guide of instinct in matters of diet. Geographical and 
economic conditions place restrictions upon the food supply 
and range of choice ; and experience has taught that both diet- 
ary insufficiencies and inefficiencies, with consequent failures 
of perfect nutrition, can arise even in the so-called nations of 
culture. 

Among the poorer classes, and particularly where indigence 
and indifference go hand in hand, the effects of undernutrition 
are often clearly manifested. Not alone is the working capacity 
of the adults decreased, but the malnutrition of poverty is often 
the companion of more evident diseases. The children of the 
family, in particular, are likely to suffer from the consequences 
of improper feeding. 

The physiology of nutrition at length takes cognizance of 
the total energy requirement; it recognizes the unique impor- 
tance of the protein needs, though the quantitative aspects of 
this topic are still somewhat debated ; it appreciates the essential 
demand for appropriate inorganic constituents — lime, iron, 
chlorides, etc. — in the diet; it understands the role played by 
the indigestible ingredients, the roughage of the ration; and 
it attempts to make allowance for those apparently significant 
though undefined food components which are vaguely classed 
as vitamines or food hormones — factors which promote nutri- 
tion and growth in ways yet to be clearly analyzed. 

How to satisfy these varied needs and furnish the indis- 
pensable nutrients in a ration that shall be palatable, digestible, 
liberal in quantity, and still come within the purchasing power 
of the family, is an enormously important problem of applied 
nutrition. Where free selection is possible and abundant sup- 
plies are unrestricted, the management of the situation is not 
so serious. A liberal variety of foods furnished in abundance 
is likely, as a matter of chance, if not also of judgment, to 
afford a ration adequate in all respects ; though even among the 
well-to-do, free choice is far from being a dependable indicator, 
particularly in the selection of the dietary of growing children. 



FOREWORD 3 

where, for example, the bread-meat-potato-sugar and coffee 
type of meals may fail to provide lime and other special nutri- 
ents found in fresh green vegetables. But when the family 
income is restricted, the problem becomes more serious. How 
a typical family of five may live on ten or twelve dollars a week 
— this question includes the necessity of shelter and clothing, 
but above all, of food. 

The authors of this book have contributed a timely attempt 
at a practical solution of the problem indicated. The more I 
have investigated the difficulties, under present-day conditions, 
of securing adequate nutrition at an average cost of twenty 
cents per day per person, for the families of small earning 
capacity, the more have I been impressed with the immediate 
helpfulness of such essays. It matters little whether these 
dietaries are acceptable in their entirety. The contribution of 
147 menus carefully planned, with tested recipes which are 
the outcome of the direct experience of a visiting house- 
keeper under the conditions that prevail in a large American 
city, is a valuable effort in a somewhat novel direction. Only 
one who has actually attempted, with restricted funds, to pur- 
chase a variety of abundant, suitable, seasonable foods in the 
retail market can thoroughly appreciate the situation. 

Graham Lusk has recently presented the difficulty as fol- 
lows: "According to the German minimum allowance, an 
average family of five (father, mother, and three children) 
would require 11400 calories in food daily. If the family's 
dietary were based proportionately upon that of the boys' 
school, it would cost as follows (table), provided its food 
supplies were purchased on Second Avenue, New York City : 

TABLE 

Calories Cost in cents 

Total food 11400 

Bread 1500 5 

Butter 1500 IS 

Milk 1500 16 

Sugar 1500 4 

6000 40 



4 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

"Forty cents will buy more than half the family's food 
requirement, at an average cost of 6 cents per thousand calories, 
instead of 14 cents, the average cost at the school. If $25 is 
spent each month for food, 80 cents a day is available, or 
7 cents for a thousand calories. The margin is narrow. 

"It would be well if the family knew that more than half 
its food supply could be had for 40 cents a day, and that this 
bread, butter, milk, and sugar are of equal nutritive value to 
the best the country affords. The remaining 5400 calories 
could then be bought at a cost of 7 cents per thousand. This 
sum will purchase most of the usual foodstuffs, with the 
exception of meat." ^ 

The tested plans of the authors attempt to provide in a 
practical way for these situations that are arising everjrwhere. 
An inspection of their tables will indicate at once that there is 
no superfluity of food, no undue excess of calories suggested. 
Minimum conditions do not furnish maximum allowances. The 
suggestions must be judged in the light of the necessities clearly 
postulated by the authors. One might argue that the measure 
of protein is rather small, particularly for working and grow- 
ing individuals. In the light of Gephart's recent observations on 
schoolboys, as well as the newer studies of DuBois on the basal 
metabolism of children, the food needs of active adolescent 
persons are apparently larger than is generally assumed. Intel- 
ligent application of certain provisions suggested in the text is 
expected to increase somewhat the purchasing power of the 
limited income and provide more food; and without some 
degree of intelligence on the part of the family in such a situa- 
tion, the need of experienced advice is the greater. The authors 
have undertaken a useful task, with an intelligent appreciation 
of both its moment and its tentative limitations. 

Lafayette B. Mendel. 

September, 1916. 

^Lusk, G. : Food Economics, Journal Washington Academy Sciences. 
1916, vi, 392. 



INTRODUCTION 

How can sufficient nutritious food be supplied to the family p-^i^^ 
at the lowest cost ? 

This vital question constantly confronts physicians and 
social workers who are serving families struggling to sustain 
life on small incomes and limited training. 

Our contribution towards answering the question is this 
series of menus, with food values and costs for a period of seven 
weeks. They serve as a working basis for the food supply of 
the family. No attempt has been made to discuss the economics 
of such conditions as transportation, storage, distribution, etc., 
which affect the cost of the food supply. The individual cannot 
control these influences ; they need the study and action of the 
larger groups. 

Five factors have been considered, separately and coUec- p^eiow 
tively, in planning these menus : 

1. Availability of data for practical purposes. 

2. A series of menus and recipes, with the calculations 

of the food values and costs. 

3. Variety of food and substitution of food values. 

4. Cost per se and in relation to the income. 

5. Instruction of the homemaker. 

Since the reliable tables of Atwater and Bryant appeared, Avaikbility 
many data in reference to the subject have been published as a of Data 
result of experiments by scientists in the government service, 
by universities, hospitals, and laboratories, by teachers in 
schools, and by social workers as a result of their experience. 
The material, however, was not in form available for practical 
use by those engaged in social service in the homes. To obtain 
this material required the gathering of many books and pam- 
phlets, for there has not been brought together a series of 
menus covering several weeks, with food values, cost, and 

5 



6 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

determined amounts of food. We have compiled the requisite 
data, using as a groundwork the generally acknowledged 
standards of scientists and our knowledge gained through 
working in families of limited incomes. 

FOOD REQUIREMENTS 

"The calorie-idea in nutrition," says Professor Mendel, 
"the outcome of an understanding of the transformation of 
energy in the living body, has been fruitful in more ways than 
one. It has taught people to think of the uses of food from 
a more rational standpoint, and has furnished an intelligible 
basis for constructive institutional dietetics as well as the nutri- 
tion of the individual. Food is beginning to be regarded as 
fuel for the human organism — something that must be pro- 
vided in determinable amounts. Malnutrition and undernutri- 
tion have received a new popular significance in the discussion 
of human efficiency." ^ 
qI The food supply has been estimated for an average family 
Family Qf fjy^ . man, woman, and three children, ranging from eight to 
sixteen years of age. 
Soientifio We have taken as our standard for the maintenance of such 
Standards ^ normal family in health, the food requirements sanctioned by 
physiological chemists : 75 grams of protein,^ 50 grams of fat, 
400 to 500 grams of carbohydrates, yielding 2,500 calories per 
person per day — a total of 12,500 calories per day for five 
people. The protein is about 12 per cent of the total caloric 
intake, a sufficient amount according to Lusk. This basis of 
^*^®* 12,500 calories per day, with 1,500 calories, or 375 grams, of 
protein, permits the dietary to be used for families of varying 
ages and occupations. The food requirements will increase or 

* Mendel : Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press, New York. 19 16. p. 49. 

■"Where a low protein diet is desired, either for physiological or eco- 
nomical reasons, we would suggest an allowance of about 75 grams protein 
per man per day." Sherman : Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Macmillan, 
New York. 191 1. p. 228. 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 7 

decrease from the norm of 2,500 calories, according to the age, 
sex, and activity of the individual, and consequently the cost 
will vary in proportion. 

A family with children permits a larger amount for the BmUoI 
man of the household than one of all adults. Our dietary would CaloBlatkai 
supply five women at moderate activity or four men at light 
muscular work, or it would furnish a widow with six children, 
ranging in ages from two to sixteen years, sufficient nutriment. 

Tables compiled from various sources, according to age and 
activity, show the caloric intake to be as follows : 



CALORIC REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDHOOD, ADOLES- 
CENCE, AND ADULT LIFE 

Table 1 



Age 

1 year 

2 years 

2 to 4 years 
5 to 6 
7 to 10 
11 to 14 
15 to 16 
17 to 18 



1 



Calories 

950 
1100 
1300 
1400 
1500 
1600 
2100 
2250 



Calculations from 



Holt and Sherman 



Camerer 



Table 2 



Occupation 

Clerk at desk 

Sales clerk, machinery watcher, 

house worker 

Light muscular work 

Carpenter, mason 

Farmer 

Excavator 



Calories Calculations from 

2250 Atwater and Bryant 

2500 Lusk 

2800 Atwater and Bryant 

3200 Tigerstedt 

3500 Lusk 

4000 Tigerstedt 



We might assume the family of five to be provided for as 
follows : 



Man 3500 calories per day 

Woman 2500 

Boy (12 years) 2500 

Girl (16 years) 2250 

Child (8 years) 1750 



ft 

u 
u 
it 



it 



tt 



it 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



Total 



12500 



tt 



tt 



tt 



8 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

In view of the recent investigations of DuBois and of Gephart 
that growing boys have a basal requirement above that of adults, 
we have arranged the above table so as to provide more food 
than the computations from Tables i and 2 demand. The 
figures are not arbitrary, and active, growing children must be 
provided sufficient nourishment. The tables serve, however, 
as a guide to the approximate number of calories required. 

"It is not always necessary or wise to so plan the food that 
on each day of the week an exact proportion of the various 
constituents be maintained, but each week's total should be 
nearly the theoretical amount." * 

Supplies must not only provide sufficient amounts for the 
bodily requirements of protein, fats, and carbohydrates, but 
allowance must be made to satisfy the desire for variety. It 
was said of a set of menus planned at a cost of $4.61 per week, 
"that while it gives enough strength, it does not give enough 
variety to keep the family well for a long time." ^ 

One way of securing variety and zest in the food is by 
the use of flavors. In our menus, for instance, tomatoes are 
used abundantly for this purpose. While they are almost value- 
less for nourishment, they serve as an accessory to cheap foods 
of high food value but little flavor, making it possible to serve 
them in a palatable form. 
j^^ From the foregoing tables of caloric requirements, it appears 
Two Dollar that it is quite impossible to provide sufficient and proper food 
Order ^^^ ^ family of five with the two dollars per week allowed for 
a "grocery order" by some relief agencies. Under the direc- 
tion of the head of the Department of Household Economics, 
college students selected foods of the highest nutritive quality 
from the supplies permitted by such a grocery order. Food 
values were calculated and yielded only 1,891 calories per day 
per person, with 55 grams of protein ; a total of 66,200 calories 

* Richards: Dietary Computer. John Wiley & Sons, New York. 1902. 
P- 5- 

' Gibbs : Lessons in the Proper Feeding of the Family. New York Asso- 
ciation for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New York. 191 1. p. 10. 



Pikrtability 



Cost 


Fuel Value 


Dollars 


Calories 


$.72 


28900 


.24 . 


5900 


.14 ^ 


4(500 


.06 


3200 


.18 


7200 


.10 


500 


.20 


7200 


.13 


3600 


.07 


4000 


.12 


1100 


.04 





FOOD REQUIREMENTS 9 

per week for the whole family. A list of the foods shows that 
it is impossible to arrange an adequate dietary from such a 
narrow choice. 

TWO DOLLAR GROCERY ORDER* 



Material 

18 lbs. flour 

2 qts. beans 

1 pk. potatoes 

2 lbs. corn meal 

4 " oatmeal 

1 ** salt cod 

2 " salt pork 

2 " sugar 

1 qt. molasses 

i lb. cocoa 

2 yeast cakes 

Total $2.00 66200 

In constructing the menus submitted, we first selected low- Method of 
cost foods of high nutritive value, planned from them meals Construction 
which would satisfy the palate and also fulfill the necessary 
requirements of a balanced menu, and then, last of all, computed 
the cost. 

Ash constituents, such as sulphur, phosphorus, calciimi, ^^^ 
iron, etc., are furnished in milk, eggs, whole grains, peas, beans, 
green vegetables, and fruits. These are included in the daily 
diet in sufficient amount to meet the physiological requirements.^ 

Roughage, or bulk, necessary for the action of the intestines, Rouj|ui|e 
is secured by such vegetable material as the cellulose of cabbage, 

^This order was calculated by students at Simmons College, under 
Dr. Alice F. Blood. See pamphlet prepared under the auspices of the New 
England Home Economics Association, Boston, Mass. February, 191 6. p. 3. 

Graham Lusk, in a recent personal note, advocated the "arranging of 
10,000 or 12,000 caloric baskets, purchasable at various prices, varying in 
contents daily throughout the week. Grocers could put them up for families. 
Delicacies could then be extra." The above grocery order yields only 
9,457 calories per day for a family of five. 

"Sherman: Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Table of Ash Constit- 
uents of Foods in Percentage of the Edible Portion (compiled from various 
sources). Macmillan, New York. 191 1. p. 332. 



10 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

lettuce, spinach, tomatoes, beans and peas with their hulls, 
onions, cereals, fresh and dried fruits. 
VitaouaM Besides the acknowledged food constituents discussed above, 
it is understood that there exists in food certain activating 
principles generally known as vitamines. 

"There is a well-founded growing belief that an impor- 
tant part in nutrition is played by substances which are not 
identical with the familiar foodstuffs mentioned, and which, 
despite the minimal amounts thereof present in the diet, may 
nevertheless be indispensable for growth and the mainte- 
nance of life. They have been called 'accessory diet factors,' 
'vitamines,' or 'food hormones.' We may conceive of them as 
stimulating certain physiological processes and as essential 
to certain functions." ^ 

They have a peculiar usefulness and are quite as essential 
to the diet as the better known energy requirements. As some 
of them are impaired by heat and others are lost in the wastes of 
the modem technical processes of food manufacture, care must 
be taken not to substitute entirely canned or preserved fruits 
and vegetables for fresh products, or cereals produced by too 
refined a method. The varied diet, with fresh fruit, fresh vege- 
tables, milk, eggs, meat, and whole grain, supplies this demand. 
A ailability ^^^ vegetables prescribed in our dietary have been largely 
of Fresh the winter variety or canned vegetables. We hope, however, 
V r* t*M* *^^* when the price is low, fresh vegetables will be used. For 
at Different example, when 2^ pounds of fresh tomatoes can be purchased 
^A*^Y ^^ at the price of i can of tomatoes, the fresh vegetable should 
always be used. But if the price of the fresh tomatoes is higher, 
it will be impossible to use them and keep within the prescribed 
limits of cost. A similar principle should be applied to fruits. 
The dietary calls for much dried fruit, but when the price of 
fresh fruit supplies a like food value for the same amount 
of money, it should always be used by preference. A peck or 

* Mendel: Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press. 1916. p. 49 ff. 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS ii 

12 pounds of fresh apples is equivalent in food value to 2 pounds 
of dried apples. When 4 quarts or 6 pounds of fresh apples 
can be purchased for the same price as i pound of dried apples, 
at 12 cents, the fresh fruit should be used instead of the dried. 
We have used fresh apples in these menus, however, when 
they cost 20 cents for 4 quarts, believing at this price it was 
preferable to use fresh fruit for the additional advantages thus 
obtained for the diet. 

Bread 

Throughout the dietary, computations have been based on 
the use of baker's bread instead of homemade bread. This has 
been done for two reasons, the second of which is more impor- 
tant — ^and is a corollary of the first. 

First Many families buy baker's bread, and consequently ^^,^0, 
our dietary could be more easily adjusted to the families until for Use 
they were educated to bake bread in their homes. Bread *' ' 

Second. If our computations were based on homemade 
bread and the family actually used baker's bread, the total food 
values of the dietary would fall below the body requirements 
and the cost would be increased, because much of the baker's 
bread gives only half the food value of homemade bread, and Bread 
therefore costs twice as much. By baking the bread at home, 
the required food value for the bread is surely obtained at 
half the expense of baker's bread.^ 

Where the flour is bought by the bag, the supply may give 
out during the week, perhaps ten days after the purchase. 
Frequently money is not available for a new supply until the 
next pay day, leaving a certain number of days when bakery 
products are purchased at an increased expenditure or at a 
comparatively lowered food value. 

A recent experiment shows how a relief organization may 
obviate this difiiculty. Usually the relief organization gives a 
certain amount either in actual groceries or money. The Boston 

^Condit and Long: How to Cook and Why. Harper & Bros., New York 
and London. 1914. p. 44. 



12 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

Provident Association, however, advanced to the grocer the 
money for half a barrel of flour and deducted from the regular 
amount given to the family for supplies the sum of 50 cents 
each week, which went towards the pa)mient of the flour, thus 
insuring a continuous supply. 

Although our dietary is figured on the basis of the use of 
baker's bread, for economic reasons we recommend the use 
of homemade bread, cakes, and cookies wherever this is possible. 

Batter The composition of the fats varies from 83 per cent fat in 
Subttitatet oleomargarine to 100 per cent fat in lard and cottolene. Where 
our recipes and menus call for "oleo" or a butter substitute, 
we have taken the food value of butter (85 per cent fat), 
although the price quoted is that of the cheaper shortening. 
This has seemed a fair average analysis. The substitution of 
any other fat will hardly lessen the nutritive value of the dietary, 
although the use of butter itself will increase the cost consider- 
ably. These substitutes have approximately the same degree 
of digestibility as butter, though they lack the flavor. They are 
used throughout the recipes on account of the reduction in cost. 
The prices quoted are those for the best quality of oleomar- 
garine at 24 cents for eating purposes, and any of the vegetable 
fats — corn or cottonseed — at 16 cents per pound for cooking. 
Suet and beef drippings have also been used for cooking. 

Milk for Children 

Neoestity of We have not attempted in our dietary to meet the varying 
^ .^*liL^?I requirements of children, as it is practically impossible to plan 

for the daily amount of milk which the growing child needs, 
and to adjust this amount of milk to our dietary without undue 
and confusing repetition of figures and tables. We recognize, 
however, the necessity of milk for the growing child, and believe 
if there is a young child in the family that milk must be pro- 
vided. Such well-known authorities as Sherman and as Hunt 
advocate "a quart of milk a day" because of "its many advan- 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 13 

tages as a * tissue-building' and * growth-promoting' food." 
After the child is two years old> according to Morse, it should 
"not take over a quart of milk daily. More than this is likely 
to take away its appetite for other food, which is more neces- 
sary for it." Miss Hunt states that this food can be given as a 
beverage, or served on cereals, or in the form of bread and 
milk. " It may also be served in soups, gravies, custards, junket, 
and other puddings, and may be used in the place of water in 
cooking cereals." We have not planned our menus for this 
child who requires a quart of milk daily, but if there is such 
a child in the family, he should have this kind of food. A quart 
of milk yields 695 calories at a cost of 10 cents per quart. The 
food requirements of a child four to six years old are 1,400 
calories. Besides the food value furnished by this quart of 
milk, he must have 705 calories of additional food. As our 
dietary provides food at the approximate cost of 0.8 of a cent 
per calorie, the child's dietary consisting of milk and other food 
will cost about 16 cents per day. 

It is interesting to note how, by attention to details, it is Ditnteof 
possible to arrange our dietary in such a way that two-thirds J^**^** •"^ 
of a quart of milk a day can be provided for one child in our Money for 
family of five without additional cost. Our menus give coffee Milk 
every day and tea about five times a week. If there are children 
in the family and only the two adults drink coifee, the cost 
saved per week on this beverage by the other three members 
of a family of five is approximately 2.1 cents per day, or 
15 cents per week (.7X3X7= I4«7)« This money will 
purchase 3 pints of milk per week. 

The cost saved on the milk and sugar used in this amount 
of coffee is approximately 9 cents per week (42 X 3 X 7 = 
8.82) . This money will purchase approximately 2 pints of milk 
per week. 

Sufficient money is therefore released, if three members of 
the family do not take coffee, milk and sugar, to purchase 
5 pints of milk per week, a total of 10 eight-ounce glasses of 



14 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

milk, or li glasses a day, for any child requiring it. [One quart 
of milk furnishes 695 calories, or 175 calories for each eight- 
ounce glass. As it is impracticable to serve, at the table, a glass 
brimful of fluid, we have assumed that a glass of milk as ordi- 
narily served contains only 158 calories (220 grams), or that 
each quart of milk provides about 4^ of these glasses.] 

The amount saved by not using tea in the projected dietary 
is not so large as that saved by the omission of coffee, but it is 
nevertheless sufficient to aid in the purchase of additional milk. 
Tea is served for supper on an average of five times a week 
at a cost of .13 cents a cup. If only the parents drink it, the 
saving on the other three members of the family will be 
1.95 cents (.13X3X5) for tea. For milk and sugar it 
will be 6.30 (.42X3X5)1 or a total of 8 cents per week 
saved on tea, milk and sugar (1.95 + 6.30 = 8.25). This 
will purchase i^ pints of milk per week, or about ^ glass per 
day. 
^. , The amount of money released by the three members of the 

DltUM of '' '' 

Tea and family not using tea and coffee and their accessories is 31 cents 

P,?*** P^r week (14.70 + 8.25 = 31.77), enough money to purchase 
Allows 
Substitution 3 quarts of milk per week at 10 cents a quart. This furnishes 

of 2 Glasses approximately 2 glasses per day for drinking purposes. 

If these three younger members of the family do not drink 

coffee or tea, and consequently do not use the milk and sugar 

served with these beverages, they are not receiving as much 

food as is supplied in our menus. The young child, however, 

who is drinking the two additional glasses of milk will not 

require the main dinner dish. This can be divided between the 

two older children not taking any beverage, and the balance 

for all will be maintained. 

Milk on O^r dietary allows J of a glass of milk for the breakfast 

Cereal and in cereal for each person, and an average of f of a glass for the 

Furnishes preparation of food per day per person. In other words, a little 

1 Glass less than 2 quarts of milk are used for each person each week 

in the menus as arranged. 



PLAN OF MENUS 15 

The 3 quarts of milk that can be purchased per week by the 
money released from tea, coffee, and accessories, together with 
the 2 quarts provided in the dietary, make available for the 
young child 5 quarts of milk per week. This allows him an 
average of 3 glasses per day as beverage or in the food. 

PLAN OF MENUS 

The danger of giving definite menus, said Ellen H. Richards, 
is that the whole is often relegated to the dump heap if a part is 
refused. However, these menus as submitted are intended to be 
guides rather than fixed diets, though they may be used as such. 

The day's menus are planned as follows : 

Breakfast consists of i portion of cereal, with 4 tablespoons- pj | 
f ul of milk and 3 teaspoonsf ul of sugar ; 2 slices, f-inch thick, Menus 
of bread, with i teaspoonful of "oleo" for each slice; i cup 
of coffee, with 2 tablespoonsful of milk and 2 teaspoonsful of 
sugar. 

Dinner consists of a nutritive thick soup, or meat, or meat 
substitute (which is a dish of the equivalent protein values, as 
in macaroni and cheese); some starchy vegetable or bread; 
usually a green vegetable or salad ; a pudding or other dessert. 

Lunch or Supper consists of stewed fruit or jelly; cake, 
bread and "oleo," and a beverage. (A discussion of lunch for 
the man will be found on page 19.) 

The complete dietary in this book gives 49 days' menus, Seven 
covering a period of 7 weeks, and the menus are so arranged Weckt' 
that no two days are the same. The food values for each chem- Calorio Values 
ical component of the food and the total caloric values are for Each Dey 
given for each day, so that the totals of one day may be easily 
compared with those of another, and one day's diet may be 
substituted for another. Such an arrangement for substituting 
one whole day's menu for another, without disturbance of food 
values, is of great importance, inasmuch as it provides for 
personal tastes and distastes — psychological factors that must 
be reckoned with. Substitution of single dishes is more diffi- 



i6 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

cult^ for, except in certain cases where the chemical and caloric 
values of the two dishes are approximately the same, the balance 
and totals for the day are likely to be disturbed. 
Allows There is no reason, however, why free substitution of one 
Substitution dish for another should not be made — provided that the food 
for Another values are recalculated and any deficiency supplied. The one 
essential for satisfactory substitution is that the weekly totals 
for protein and calories must average at or above the normal 
requirements of 75 grams of protein and 2,500 calories per 
person per day. If the totals of fat and carbohydrates average 
less than the standards of 50 grams and 400-500 grams, respec- 
tively, ,per person per day, the deficiency, if not too great, may 
be made up by the use of extra "oleo" and extra sugar in raw 
or cooked form, at a small additional cost. 
Vnriety ^^ obviate monotony in the diet, the same dinner dish does 
not occur in the same week or the same day of other weeks. 
This does not mean, however, that if a particular dish is desired 
it should not be used repeatedly, as the traditional fish on 
Friday and baked beans on Saturday. 
Choice ^^^ choice of foods which would allow variety is limited 

by the low cost of the dietary. 
Place of Meat is the most expensive item in the food budget, but 
Meat in the it has these advantages, that it satisfies the palate, is easily 
letary ^.^qJ^^j^ ^^^ meets the needs of the protein requirements. These 
qualities balance its high cost, and if the price is not excessive, 
that is, out of proportion to the other foods, its use is advisable. 
We have spent for meat about one-seventh of the total amount 
expended for supplies. Many families spend one-third, which 
is too large a proportion. Sherman says that "when one-sixth 
instead of one-third of the total expenditure for food is for 
meat, the dietary is usually both more economical and better 
balanced." ^ By decreasing the expenditure for meats, vege- 
tables and fruits may be used more freely. 

^Sherman: Food Products. Macmillan, New York. 191 5* Place of 
Meat in the Diet, p. 212. Composition of Legumes, p. 3x2. The Place of 
Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet, p. 346. 



PLAN OF MENUS 17 

A method by which a small amount of meat may serve to Ext^n-i^n 
give variety is indicated by employing the principle of the of Meet 
"extension of flavor,"^ combining the meat with the less ex- ^^^®' 
pensive foodstuffs, such as rice, macaroni, and potatoes, in 
scalloped meat (Recipes Nos. 72 and 76) or meat pies (Recipes 
Nos. 74 and 75). 

Meat for dinner is often replaced entirely by other protein i^^im^, „ 
bearing dishes. The legumes are of high protein content, and Protein 
most of them show a high percentage of carbohydrates and in 
general are of higher food value than meat. 

Nuts also contain a large percentage of protein and can be 
used in combination with other foods — most advantageously p^i^n 
with bread, crackers, fruit, vegetables, milk — but they should Food 
form a part of the diet and not supplement a meal. They have 
not been used in this dietary except as peanut candy for dessert, 
though they can be used as a meat substitute in the form of a 
"nut loaf." There is no economy, however, as the cost will be 
equal to that of a meat dish. Peanut butter, which may be used 
for supper or luncheon on bread, costs per ounce 2.5 cents in 
package, .8 cent in bulk, giving 167 calories, with 9 grams 
of protein. 

The meals are of the kinds that are served in American p^^,| ^^ 
homes. In one series of menus it would be impossible to meet Nationality 
the desires and tastes of all nationalities, but these can be met 
if time is taken to figure out the food value of the "foreign" 
dish. The foodstuffs are practically the same as those that enter 
into our recipes, and their food values may be obtained from 
our recipes. They may then be substituted according to the 
method outlined above. 

For example, the ingredients meat, macaroni or rice, and 
vegetables would probably be utilized as follows by housewives 
of varying nationalities : 

An American housewife would serve from them a scalloped 
meat pie, with macaroni and the vegetable as a side dish. 

^Langworthy and Hunt: Economical Use of Meat in the Home. Farm- 
ers' Bulletin No. 391, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, 1910. 



i8 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

The Jewish housewife would first use the meat to make 
soup stock, and then braise the meat with onions, bay leaves, 
garlic, and tomatoes. Noodles instead of macaroni would be 
put into the soup, and the vegetables would be cooked either 
with the soup or with the meat, adding to the flavor of the 
latter. 

The Italian housewife would cook the ingredients in about 
the same way, using the vegetables in the soup and adding a 
dash of cheese. The meat would be made into cakes with some 
of the vegetables, well seasoned with peppers, onions, herbs, 
and spices, to make up for the extractives lost in cooking. These 
cakes might be cooked again in the broth. 

In planning for the Orthodox Jews, the dietary laws must 
be considered. The milk desserts for dinner should be inter- 
changed with the fruit sauces for supper if the main dinner 
dish is meat. The use of a vegetable fat for shortening in the 
other desserts would make them allowable with the meat, and 
if milk is a required Ingredient, water could replace it. Butter 
should be served instead of "oleo" on the bread, and in the 
cooking the "oleo" should be replaced by a vegetable fat, as 
its use on account of its ingredients would be prohibited by the 
Mosaic dietary laws. "The raw materials used in the manufac- 
ture of oleomargarine are 'oleo oil,' which is mainly the olein 
of beef fat, neutral lard, and cottonseed oil, together with 
smaller amounts of butter and cream or milk." * Any loss from 
substitution can readily be adjusted, as the difference in food 
values is so slight. 

"In each land there are half a dozen foods which may be 
substituted for as many known by different names in other 
lands. Food synonyms, they might be termed." ^ Some of the 
typical dishes of different nationalities that approximate each 
other are : 



* Woodman: Food Analysis. McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. 1915. 
p. 214. 

'Richards: The Cost of Foods. A Study in Dietaries. John Wiley & 
Sons, New York. 1908. p. 9i« 



PLAN OF MENUS 19 

American Italian Jewish or Gennan 

Vegetable soup Minestrone Gemiisesuppe 

Lentil soup Brodo di Lenticchie Linsensuppe 

Cereal soup Minestra Griesmehlsuppe 

Fish chowder Zuppa di Merhizzo Milchige Fisdi 

Rice and cheese Riso in Bianco Nudeln und Kase 

Macaroni Maccheroni Nudeln 

Indian meal Polenta 

Stuffed fish Gefiilte Fisch 

Scalloped meat, mac- Maccheroni al sugo di Gehacktes Fleisch and 

aroni, and tomatoes Came Nudeln 

Creamed onions Onions "alia Parme- 

giana" 

Braised stuffed meat, Polpettone "alia Na- Eingedampfte Fleisch 

with vegetables politana" und Gemiise 

Meat balls with rice Risotto "alia Nostrale" Fricadellen 

Spinach Verdura boUita Spinat 

Baked beans Faginoli Graupen und Erbsen 

Vegetable salad Insalata "alia Mace- Italienische Salat 

doine" 

Prune loaf Dampfnudeln und ge- 

kochte Swetzchen 

Griddle cakes Fritelli Pfannkuchen 

Apple pudding Aepfelcharlotte 

Gingerbread Lebkuchen 

Apple sauce Frutta cotta Aepfelbrei 

The man usually eats lunch away from home. The dinner, , 

if served to the family in the middle of the day, may be kept Lundi 
for him and warmed over, or a portion may be kept out to be 
cooked, if it is a "quick" dish; or the noon dinner may 
be changed to an evening meal for the family. The man's lunch 
will consist of about the same food as the supper : fruit, cake, 
bread and "oleo," and a hot drink. This will meet the proper 
food requirements, but it may not satisfy him unless he has 
for his bread some filling to make a sandwich of meat, cheese, 
eggs, peanut butter, sardines, or baked beans. If the slice of 
bread, weighing 75 grams, is too thick (f of an inch) to make 
attractive sandwiches, it may be cut half as thick. This means 
one sandwich for one slice of bread and two sandwiches where 
two slices are given in the menu. As the man will want at 



Saadwiehea 



ao FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

least two sandwiches, unless two slices of bread are served for 
supper in our menu, he will require extra bread at a cost of 
.0115 cents. If homemade bread is used instead of baker's bread, 
enough money will be saved on the total dietary to include not 
only this sandwich bread, but the sandwich filling as well. If 
meat is used for the filling, an extra amount may be bought 
for the dinner the day before (about J of a pound) at an addi- 
tional cost of about 5 cents, and this will provide an extra 
serving to be utilized for the sandwich. Chopped meat as well 
as the roast furnishes a good sandwich filling, and cold fish, if 
mixed with boiled dressing, is occasionally relished. If filling 
for sandwiches is bought, the additional cost will vary approxi- 
mately from 2 to 5 cents. 

SUPPLIES 

The cost of weekly supplies is influenced by the methods 
of purchasing, by the care and preparation of the food, and by 
the variety needed. The cost will vary somewhat with year, 
season, and place. 
Methods of ^^^ personal factor operates largely, and skill in purchasing 
ParohaBini depends upon the managing ability of the homemaker. It is 
quite possible for her to take advantage of sales, to judge the 
best piece of meat for her purpose, to get all the trimmings, 
and even the extra pieces of fat and bone, as is the custom in 
some shops. It is advisable to buy staple goods in larger 
amounts, if a saving in time or money is thereby accomplished 
and she has space for storage. 
Buy by ^^^ supplies have been planned so that a fraction of a pound 
the of any food material — the price being in odd cents — will not 
have to be purchased at a loss of a cent. This obviates the 
practice of spending 5 cents for half a pound of an article cost- 
ing 9 cents per pound, or of sending to the store for 3 cents' 
worth of tea, or 5 cents' worth of butter, or 10 cents' worth of 
meat. We consider it advisable to buy flour by the barrel if 
space permits (or half barrel, because of the less space it occu- 



SUPPLIES 21 

pies) instead of by the bag, for the reasons stated in the dis- 
cussion of Bread (p. 1 1 ) . Under no circumstances should flour 
be purchased by the pound, as its cost is increased very mark- 
edly — as much as i cent per pound. A striking example of the 
increased cost of articles purchased in small amounts is illus- 
trated by molasses, which sells for 14 cents if bought by the 
quart. A gallon, however, can be purchased for 43 cents — a 
saving of 13 cents — almost enough for another quart. 

The initial cost of food that must be bought in package, 
that is used only at intervals and lasts over a long period, 
increases the weekly amount expended out of proportion to 
the actual consumption of the food for that week. Junket, for 
example, is used in our menus twice during the seven weeks, 
requiring only two of the ten tablets purchased. Spices bought 
by the i pound will be sufficient for several months. 

Our purchases have been made at the lowest cost of an 
article at the large grocers' or "chain stores." It is possible 
that a small local store would charge a cent or two more. We 
have always purchased a good grade; for example, a cream 
of tartar baking powder at 21 cents a half pound, while it is 
possible to purchase a half pound (not cream of tartar) for 
ID cents. 

The cost of the dietary is increased by some of the package p i^ ^ 
cereals, such as farina, cream of wheat, and shredded wheat. GeresU 
To keep the dietary at the lowest cost, only those cereals that 
can be bought in bulk should be used, such as com meal, rolled 
oats, hominy, and cracked wheat ; but care should be taken that 
these are bought in clean and reliable stores. Our experience 
has shown that to establish the cereal habit in families one has 
often to allow, at least for the period of education, the use of 
those cereals preferred by the family, even if they are more 
expensive. Some of the menus were planned with this thought 
in mind. 

The homemaker must have enough skill to avoid waste of 
food by poor preparation, in order to keep the expenditures 



24 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

food, milk, etc., to improve his vegetable diet ; he wants simply 
meat, not because he needs it, but because for him it is a matter 
of pride to follow as best he can the other classes in his diet. 
The difficulty is that the cost of meat is considerably higher 
than in the country." 

The traditional dietary of the foreigner must be carefully 
analyzed to retain its good points as well as to show its short- 
comings. The new one must present these deficiencies corrected, 
with evident improvement upon the old one. 

Menus and recipes may be copied for the untrained house- 
wife without the statement of the food values. We have found 
the practice of giving a few recipes at a time has proved 
successful, as the homemaker is usually interested in the par- 
ticular food or recipe being considered, not in the study of 
Pood 
Reeord ^ whole bookful. It is well to keep some kind of a food record, 

so that the family can submit each week's consumption of food 
to the dispensary or elsewhere. The woman's offhand narrative 
is usually not dependable. While some regular form of record is 
advisable, it is not necessary, a penny notebook sufficing. 

As previously stated, these menus are to serve only as guides. 
The value of the publication of the computations with which 
to work lies in their use as a basis for the special needs of each 
worker, saving her much time and labor. 

The relief organization, by cooperation with the medical 
agencies, often makes possible the raising of the standards of 
living, for poverty and disease are closely allied. Families need- 
ing assistance often have depleted incomes, due to sickness as 
well as to various other causes. A budget must be planned if 
intelligent work is to follow for the rehabilitation of the family. 
p ■ These menus can serve as a basis to determine the amount 
Budget of relief needed for food, increasing the cost per person accord- 
ing to the size of the family. 

"The problem of the food supply is not one which can be 
dismissed by the social philosopher or solved by the calculations 
of the economist. It is highly complex with its involvement of 
factors and interests in agriculture, commerce, industry, and 



VALUES FOR COOKED FOOD^^^ ^ 25 

nutrition. Here, as in other domains, there if^^|U)ofi|^it3<#'fer 
an interplay of science and the arts, of experience aftj^ mvciftti-^*^ ^ 
gation. To attempt to foretell the future seems more IibS/Mi'^'^/?;^ ^^f^** 
act of ill-considered rashness than a keen intellectual venture. ^' Bq ^ 

The truth can only be approached scientifically. We are begin- ^^ 

ning to learn what real food values mean. There is as yet no 
ideal ration. The 'world-menu' is not in sight." ^ 

VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 

Each one of the recipes used in these menus has been care- ^ . 
fully analyzed, each ingredient measured and weighed sepa- << Tried and 
rately, and the food values calculated in the manner to be Tested" 
described. The food has then been cooked and eaten, so that 
we may say that each recipe has been "tried and tested." The 
cooked food has also been weighed and the values of the sepa- 
rate ingredients added together to give the total food value of 
the whole recipe. A portion such as would be eaten at the 
family table has then been measured out in a common measure, 
weighed, and its value estimated. This portion we have called 
"i serving." Hence we have presented an analysis of cooked 
foods rather than of raw foodstuffs, in order to determine the 
actual value and cost of the food as it is served at the table. * 

For the convenience of the housewife and of any who may 
wish to cook the foods, the recipes are given with the measures Common Use 
expressed in the usual terms of cups, tablespoons, and teaspoons 
as well as by weight. The weight of a cup of a dry ingredient, 
such as sugar, flour, and fat, varies according to the amount 
of moisture and the manner in which the material is packed in 
the utensil. After many weighings, the standard accepted was : 

STANDARD MEASURES 

1 cup of sugar -200 grams 0«' 

1 cup of flour 114 " Standard 

1 tablespoon of "oleo" 12 " ' Measures 

and in each recipe the weight used per cup and per tablespoon 

corresponds to the above standard. 

^ Mendel : Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press, New York. 191 5. p. 59. 



26 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

This method was employed with all the materials, as it is 
only by the use of definite and uniform amounts that food 
values can be calculated. The cooking by measure, however, 
approximates these amounts, so that our estimates may be used 
without too great a discrepancy. 
MeasurementB All the ingredients used in cooking are measured level. 

Edible ^^^ vegetables, fruits, and nuts are calculated for the edible 
Portion portion unless otherwise implied in the directions for cooking. 
In purchasing supplies, allowance has been made for this neces- 
sary refuse, or inedible matter, which cannot be used at the table. 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, United States De- 
Watte partment of Agriculture, gives the percentage of refuse of the 
common articles of food, and this waste must be considered 
in the cost. 
Supplies T^^ weights in grams, as given in the recipes, have been 
converted into the common terms of pounds and ounces in the 
"supply sheet," in order to simplify the purchase of materials. 
This introduces a slight change in the total amounts purchased. 
An ounce is 28.35 grams, roughly 30 grams; a pound is the 
equivalent of 453.6 grams, approximately 450 grams. 
Unit of The gram has been employed as the unit of measure in all 
Measure the menus and recipes, since its use facilitates the extensive 
calculations that are necessary in computing food values. Be- 
cause the tables of Atwater and Bryant in Bulletin 28 are based 
on percentage composition, the use of the metric system is 
simpler than the ordinary system of ounces and pounds. 
Method of ^^ ^* ^^ almost impossible to estimate with such minute 
Calculation accuracy an average of the chemical analyses of the various 
food elements, decimal places are not used in calculating the 
weight of the food constituents. They are, however, used in 
calculating the calories (4.1 for each gram of protein and 
carbohydrate, and 9.3 for each gram of fat).^ They are dis- 

^The whole numbers 4 and 9 are often used as the calorie yield of 
I gram of protein, carbohydrate, and fat. For a discussion of the calorie see 
Sherman : Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Macmillan Co., New York* 
191 1. Chap. V, p. 118 ff. 



VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 27 

regarded in the final result — calories per serving — so that there 
is apt to be some insignificant variation in the total calories, as 
expressed in our tables, from those of Atwater and Bryant, 
expressed in value per pound. 

In order to calculate the food value of a given recipe, each Composition 
ingredient has to be weighed, and the weight of the constituent by Wei^t 
protein, fat, and carbohydrate estimated from the tables of 
percentage composition given in Bulletin 28. For example, 
I measuring cupful of milk weighs 244 grams. The chemical 
composition of milk, omitting water and ash, is, by 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION 

Protein 3.3 per cent 

Fat 4.0 " " 

Carbohydrate 5.0 " " 

The weights in grams, therefore, of these food constituents 
in I cupful of milk are : 



Protein 244 X 033 = 8.05 i. e., 8 grams 

Fat 244X.04 = 9.76 " 10 

Carbohydrate 244 X .05 = 12.20 " 12 



it 
tt 



CALORIE YIELD 

Since i gram of protein yields 4.1 calories, i gram of fat 
9.3 calories, and i gram of carbohydrate 4.1 calories, the fuel 
value of I cupful of milk in terms of calories for each of the 
food constituents is : 

Protein 8 X 4.1 = 32.8 calories 

Fat 10 X 9.3 = 93.0 " 

Carbohydrate 12 X 4.1 = 49.2 " 



Total fuel value 175.0 



it 



Using this method with an entire recipe, Number 44, we Analysis 
proceed as follows : ®^ • Recipe 

Baked Custard 

3 cups milk f cup sugar 

3 eggs Pinch salt 

Grated nutmeg 

As in the case of the milk, we first weigh each ingredient 
composing the recipe, and then, consulting Bulletin 28 for the 
percentage composition, compute the weight in grams. 



28 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



WEIGHT IN GRAMS 



Material 
MUk 



3C. 



Weight Protein Grams Fat Gnnu Carbohydrate 

Granu Wt. X % Wt. X % Wt X % 

732 782 X .038 = 24 782 X .04 = 29 732 X .06 = 87 



Eggs 3 
Sugar f C. 


160 
76 


160 X .134 = 20 160 X .106 = 16 


76 X 1.00 = 76 


Total 


067 


44 46 


112 



Having ascertained the weight of the food constituents, 
we find the food value as follows : 

CALORIES 



Material 

Milk 

Eggs .... 
Sugar . . . 

Total 



Protein Calories 


Fat Calories 


Carbohydrate Calories 


Total 


Wt. X 4.1 


Wt. X 901 


Wt. X 4.1 


Calories 


24 X 4.1 = 98 


29 X 9.8 = 270 


37 X 4.1 = 162 


620 


20 X 4.1 = 82 


16 X 9.3 r= 149 


— .— _ 


231 


— — — 


— — — 


76 X 4.1 = 808 


808 



180 



419 



460 1069 



Lots of These figures represent the total food value of the ing^edi- 
Wei^t io ents of a baked custard, the weight in grams of the food con- 
'"^ stituents, and the number of calories of protein, fat, and carbo- 
hydrates. After cooking, however, the total weight of the dish 
changes ; instead of 957 grams, it weighs only 804 grams. We 
find that with cooking there is a loss in weight, due to the 
evaporation of water, which makes a smaller quantity available 
for serving, but there is no appreciable loss in food value. 

An ordinary helping of this baked custard, expressed in 
terms of common measure, is 2 heaping tablespoonsful (2 h. T.) 
and weighs on an average 134 g^ams. The custard will there- 
fore serve six people with one portion apiece. 



NO. 44— CUSTARD 



Biaterial 

Cooked . . . 
1 Serving . 



Measore 

12 h. T. 
2h.T. 



Weight 
Grams 

804 
184 



Protein 
Grains 

44 

7 



Fat Carbohydrate r^-i^-i— 
Grams Grams Calories 



46 
8 



112 
19 



1069 



Calories per 
serving . . 



29 74 78 

(7 X 4.1) (8 X 9.8) (19 X 4.1) 



181 



VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 29 



\ 



These recipes have been taken from standard cookbooks, gt^dnrii 
The average amount that would be served to a person at the Serving 
table has been considered the standard, and from that portion 
the weight was taken for " i Serving." As the weight, compo- 
sition, food value, and cost of " i Serving" is always computed, 
it was considered advisable to keep the recipe as given in the 
cookbook, even though it might serve more than the number 
in the family of five that was arbitrarily chosen as a basis for 
these computations. 

If this same recipe is to be used for a different number of - - .^. 
people, the ingredients remaining the same, a larger or smaller 
portion by weight must be served with a proportionate change 
of food value and cost per person. 

If it is desirable, for any reason whatever, to alter this 
recipe, a knowledge of the components as analyzed in the recipe 
allows substitution or addition. If the quantity of milk or eggs 
is increased, or a caramel or chocolate custard prepared by 
adding the necessary sugar or cocoa, the above calculations will 
serve as a framework for further computations. 

As there is also a cost column in our recipes, it will be 
possible in some instances to substitute a cheaper for a more 
expensive foodstuff of the same food value, and to compute the 
price for the amount of each ingredient used. "Shredded 
wheat" may be omitted for breakfast, for example, and cracked 
wheat put in its place, at a saving of over i cent per person ; 
or gingerbread may take the place of corn bread, at a slightly 
lower cost with a higher total food value, the amount of protein 
and fat being the same. If the housekeeper must reduce her 
expenses, she can interchange two foods whose food values 
approximate each other and whose cost differ^ and thus lessen 
her expettditure. 



30 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



CONVERSION TABLES 
GRAMS TO OUNCES* 



Grama 


Ouncea 


Grama 


Ooaoea 


1 


0.035 


70 


2.467 


2 


0.071 


80 


2.822 


3 


0.106 


90 


3.174 


4 


0.141 


100 


3.527 


5 


0.176 


113 


4 


6 


0.212 


200 


7 


7 


0.247 


227 


8 


8 


0.283 


250 


8.8 


9 


0.317 


300 


10.5 


10 


0.353 


400 


14 


20 


0.705 


453.6 


16 


30 


1.058 


500 


17.6 


AO 


1.411 


907 


32 


50 


1.764 


1000 


35.2 


60 


2.116 


OUNCES TO GRAMS 




Ounces 


Grams 


Ouicea 


Grama 


1 


28.35 


9 


255.15 


2 


56.70 


10 


283.50 


3 


85.05 


11 


311.84 


4 


113.40 


12 


340.20 


5 


141.75 


13 


368.54 


6 


170.10 


14 


396.90 


7 


198.45 


15 


425.25 


8 


226.80 


16 
POUNDS TO GRAMS 


453.60 


Poands 


Grama 


Pounds 


Grama 


1 


453.6 


3 


1361 


2 


907 


4 


1814 


2.2 


1000 


5 


2267 



ABBREVIATIONS 



b 


bottle 


lb 


pound 


C 


cup 


oz 


ounce 


en 


can 


pkg 


package 


d 


diameter 


Pt 


pint 


<\z 


dozen 


qt 


quart 


gl 


glass 


si 


slice 


h 


heaping 


sq 


square 


in 


inch 


T 


tablespoon 


1 


loaf 


t 


teaspoon 






* 


trace 



^Adapted from Rose : A Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics. Macmillan, 
New York. 19 12. pp. 73, 74. 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



31 



Ist Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

■■ ■ ■ 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

72 Meat balls with rice 2 210 31 

110 Boiled onions 2 170 4 

90 Whitesauce 4 T. 80 4 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

34 Apple Betty 2 h. T. 155 5 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 125 1 

9 Gingerbread 1 si. 75 5 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 12 1 

Total 88 

Total Calories ... 361 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



1st Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



3 


23 


147 


.30 


— 






.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


14 


24 


355 


6.00 


1 


20 


98 


.82 


10 


8 


142 


1.30 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


5 


44 


248 


2.50 




34 


143 


1.07 


5 


52 


281 


.90 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 




— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


56 


408 


2543 


20.51 


521 


1673 


2555 




X^ 


12 


442 


2.00 



1st Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

97 Split pea soup 1 C. 245 17 

114 Scalloped potatoes.. 2 h. T. 93 7 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

49 Prune jelly 2 h.T. 200 4 

Supper 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 * 

5 Corn bread 2 gems 120 10 

Oleo 2t. 8 * 

Milk 1 glass 220 7 

Total 75 

Total Calories ... 308 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Meat Loaf 1 si. 104 21 



2d Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


45 


219 


2.00 


_ 






.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


4 


42 


279 


1.10 


7 


36 


242 


1.82 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 




60 


262 


2.86 


1 


31 


136 


1.50 


10 


64 


398 


2.40 


6 


— 


65 


.42 


9 


11 


158 


2.30 


51 


438 


2,S88 


20.11 


474 


1796 


2578 





11 



5 209 4.15 



32 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

1st Week WEDNESDAY 3d Day 

^ . Measure Carbo- Cort 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grains Grama Grams riea Cento 

Breakfast ~~ 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 1 34 169 iO 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — _ — 70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

105 Stewed beans and 

tomato sauce 1 C. 257 16 5 44 293 2.11 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

48 Junket 1 C. 126 4 5 10 104 1.17 

Sapper 

29 Rice IC 200 4 * 40 180 1.00 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — _ 57 234 .70 

Bread and oleo.... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

1 Cocoa 1 C 230 5 6 12 126 1.70 

Total 72 39 426 2404 15.61 

Total Calories . . . 295 363 1747 2405 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo.. 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 * 504 5.00 

(2r X 2r X I") 



1st Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

77 Beef stew 1 C. 235 2,(i 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

60 Baked apple 2 270 2 

Sapper 

13 Oat wafers 5 50 5 

65 Rhubarb sauce 2 h. T. 90 * 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



4th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cento 



1 


45 


219 


2.00 


.— ' 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


8.00 


46 


28 


691 


8.00 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


2 


52 


240 


2.42 


8 


33 


230 


.74 


1 


36 


157 


.91 


— 


— . 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


72 


357 


2436 


24.47 


670 


1464 


2437 




9 




129 


5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



aa 



1st Week 



FRIDAY 



5th Day 



Recipe 
No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cento 




Breakfast 
















19 Cream of wheat. . . 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


1 c. 
1 c. 


250 
250 
273 


5 
17 


1 

12 


33 
109 


165 
627 


.80 
.70 

3.86 




Dinner 




93 

116 
45 


Farina soup 

Bread 

Scalloped tomatoes 

Fruit pudding 

Hard sauce 


u c 

1 si. 

i c. 

2 si. 

1 h.T. 


333 

75 

117 

160 

19 


13 
7 
3 

10 


12 
1 
4 

18 

5 


31 
40 
11 
88 
13 


292 
202 

94 
569 

99 


3.06 
1.15 
1.40 
2.21 
.70 


5 

1 

62 


Supper 

Corn bread 

Cocoa 

Baked banana 

Total 

Total Calories . . . 


2 gems 
1 C. 
1 


120 
230 
100 


10 
5 

1 


10 
6 
1 


64 
12 
32 


398 
126 
144 


2.40 
1.70 
1.38 








71 
291 


70 
6,S1 


433 

1775 


2716 
2717 


19.36 




Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 sL 

bread 

Oleo for 2 si. 
bread 


2 eggs 
2 t. 


100 

8 


14 


10 

7 




152 
65 


5.00 
.42 


1st Week 


SATURDAY 




6th Day 


Recipe 
No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cento 




Breakfast 
















22 Com meal 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constanta 


1 c. 
1 c. 


257 
250 
273 


4 

17 


1 
12 


35 
109 


169 
627 


.30 
.70 

3.86 




Dinner 




98 

35 
88 


Baked beans 

Bread 

Dutch apple cake. . . 
Lemon sauce 


1 c. 

2 si. 

1 si. 

2 T. 


185 

150 

111 

32 


19 

14 

7 


9 
2 

8 
1 


47 
80 

47 
11 


355 

404 

296 

54 


2.22 

2.30 

2.46 

.24 


118 

3 
121-b 


Supper 

Cream toast 

Sliced banana and 

Sugar 

Tea 

1 Milk and sugar 

Total 

Total Calories . . . 


1 si. 
1 

2 t. 
1 C. 


148 

100 

8 

250 

42 


11 
1 

1 


11 
1 

1 


49 

22 

8 

14 


348 

103 

33 

70 


2.46 
1.25 

.13 
.42 








74 
303 


46 
428 


422 
1730 


2459 
2461 


16.34 



Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 
purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 



27 



26 



2 361 5.60 



34 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



1st Week 



SUNDAY 



7th Day 



Recipe 
No. 



18 
2 
121-d 



70 

106 

113 

39 

61 



11 

3 

121-b 



Measure 

for One Weight 
Material Person Grams 

Breakfast 

Cracked wheat 1 C. 

Coffee 1 C. 

Constants 

Dinner 

Roast lamb (fore- 1 si. with- 

quarter) out bone 

Bread 1 si. 

Beets 1 

Potato, boiled 1 

Chocolate pudding. . 2 h. T. 

Supper 

Apricot or peach 

sauce 3 h. T. 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 

Ginger cookies 6 

Tea 1 C. 

Milk and sugar 



Carbo- Cost 

Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



246 


6 


1 


40 


196 


.60 


250 






— . 




.70 


273 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


90 


20 


27 




333 


11.00 


75 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


2U0 


5 


* 


15 


83 


1.25 


150 


4 


* 


31 


143 


1.00 


155 


7 


8 


42 


275 


2.77 


150 


3 


1 


48 


218 


2.05 


79 


7 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


60 


4 


3 


50 


249 


.84 


250 






— 




.13 


42 


1 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



Total 

Total Calories . 


81 58 
332 539 


429 2628 27.13 
1759 2630 


Totals for First 'Week 




Carbo- 

Protein Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams Grams 


Cost in 
Calories Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, first week 
Average per day 



88 


56 
51 
39 
72 
70 
46 
58 


408 
438 
426 
357 
433 
422 
429 


2543 
2588 
2404 
2436 
2716 
2459 
2628 


.2051 


75 


.2011 


72 


.1561 


74 


.2447 


71 


.1936 


74 


.1634 


81 


.2713 


535 


392 
56 


2913 
416 


17774 
2539 


1.4353 


76 


.2050 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 35 

2d Week MONDAY 8th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 * 32 143 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — - — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

n Beef stew 1 C. 235 36 46 28 691 8.00 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

37 Apple tapioca 4 h. T. 200 ♦ 1 55 235 1.50 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 prunes 125 1 — 34 143 1.07 

5 Corn bread 2 gems 120 10 10 64 398 2.40 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 11 14 70 .42 

Total 75 71 376 2509 19.53 

Total Calories .. . 308 660 1542 2510 

Man's Lunch (add'l ) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 33 12 442 2.00 



2d Week 



TUESDAY 



9th Day 







Measure 








Carbo- 




Cost 


Recipe 


for One 


Weight 


Protein 


Fat 


hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 


in 


No. 


Material 


Person 


Grams 


Grams 


Grams 


ries 


Cents 




Breakfast 
















20 


Farina 


1 c 


250 


5 


1 


34 


169 


.50 


2 


Coffee 


1 C. 


250 




— . 


— 




.70 


121-d Constants 




273 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 




Dinner 




76 


Scalloped meat, mac- 


















aroni, and tomatoes 


3 h.T. 


190 


20 


8 


21 


245 


4.10 




Bread 


1 si. 


75 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


119 


Cabbage salad 


\ C. 


57 


1 


4c 


3 


16 


.50 


120 


French dressing . . . 


2 t. 


9 


-^ 


7 


— 


6.S 


.19 


63 


Date and prune sauce 
Supper 


3 h.T. 


123 


2 


1 


66 


288 


2.22 




Bread and oleo 


2 si. 


158 


14 


9 


80 


469 


2.30 


44 


Custard 


2 h.T. 


134 


7 


8 


19 


181 


2.40 


85 


Caramel sauce 


2 T. 


40 


'—. 


— . 


25 


103 


.33 


3 


Tea 


1 C. 


250 


— . 


— — 


^__ 




.10 


121-h 


1 Milk and sugar 

Total 




42 


1 


1 


14 


70 


.42 








74 


48 


411 


2435 


18.77 




Total Calories . . . 






303 


446 


1685 


2434 





Man's Lunch (add'l) 
73 Meat loaf 1 si. 



104 



21 



11 



5 209 4.15 



36 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

2d Week WEDNESDAY 10th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cott 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grama Grama Grama Grama rics Cenf 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 1 45 219 2.00 

2 Coffee T. 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

95 Oatmeal and potato 

soup 2 C. 450 6 5 46 261 1.53 

111 Escalloped onions.. 1 140 5 10 20 196 1.63 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

35 Dutch apple cake . . 1 si. Ill 7 8 47 296 2.46 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 ♦ 1 11 54 24 

Supper 

48 Junket 1 C. 126 4 5 10 104 1.17 

85 Caramel sauce 2 T. 40 — — 25 103 .33 

Bread and oleo . . . . 2 si. 158 14 9 80 465 2.72 

3 Tea IC 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 67 53 447 2597 18.34 

Total Calories .. . 275 493 1833 2601 

Man's Lunch ( add'l ) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 ♦ 504 5.00 

(21" X 2%" X i*) 

2d Week THURSDAY 11th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat .... 1 C. 246 6 1 40 198 .60 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

68 Flank steak with veg- 
etables 1 si. 317 24 22 23 397 4.38 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 L15 

29 Rice i C. 100 2 * 20 90 .50 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — — 57 234 .70 

Supper 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 9 54309 1.41 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 6 12 126 1.70 

Bread and oleo.... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

Total 78 60 435 2652 17.72 

Total Calories . . . 320 558 1784 2662 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 9 129 SJOO 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



37 



2d Week 


FRIDAY 




12 


thDa 


y 


Recipe 
No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 




Breakfast 
















21 Hominy 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


1 c. 
1 c 


245 
250 
273 


3 

17 


* 

12 


32 
109 


143 
627 


.30 
.70 

3.86 




Dinner 




92 

79 

119 

50 


Fish chowder 

Bread 

Lettuce 

Boiled dressing.... 
Prune loaf 


1 c. 

1 si. 

4 leaves 

2 T. 
1 si. 


284 
75 
SO 
50 

150 


38 
7 
1 
2 
6 


10 

1 

5 
7 


30 
40 

1 

5 

70 


372 

202 

8 

76 

377 


4.26 
1.15 
1.00 
1.04 
2.13 


7 
121-t 


Supper 

Cake 

Jelly 

Bread 

Tea 

1 Milk and sugar .... 

Total 

Total Calories . . . 


1 piece 
2h.T. 

2 si. 
1 C. 


40 

70 

150 

250 

42 


3 
1 

14 


4 
"2 
1^ 


28 
54 
80 

14 


164 
225 
404 

70 


.95 

2.66 

2.30 

.13 

.42 








93 
381 


42 
391 


463 
1898 


2668 
2670 


20.90 




Man's LTmch(add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 

Oleo for 2sl. bread 


2 eggs 
2 t 


100 
8 


14 

* 


10 
7 




152 
65 


5.00 
.42 


2d Week 


SATURDAY 




13th Day 


Recipe 

No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 

hydrate 

Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 




Breakfast 
















24 Rolled oats 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


1 c 
1 c. 


250 
250 
273 


6 
17 


3 
12 


23 
109 


147 

627 


.30 

70 

3.86 




Dinner 
















71 

83 

81 

119 


Hamburg steak .... 

Brown gravy 

Vegetable salad.... 
Boiled dressing .... 
Bread 


1 si. 
i C 

1 c. 

2T 
1 si. 
5 pieces 


50 

157 
50 
75 
50 


16 

3 
2 
7 
4 


8 
3 

1 
5 
1 
6 


2 
16 

5 

40 
42 


138 

36 

87 

76 

202 

244 


3.00 
.24 
1.90 
1.04 
1 15 


16 


Peanut candy 


1.50 


64 

1 


Supper 

Prune sauce 

Bread and oleo .... 
Cocoa 


5 prunes 
2 si. 
1 C. 


. 125 
158 
230 


1 

14 
5 


9 
6 


34 
80 
12 


143 
469 
126 


1.07 
2.72 
1.70 




Total 

Total Calories . . . 






75 
308 


54 
502 


363 
1488 


2295 
2298 


19.18 




Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 
purchased) 


2 sau'ges 


s 140 


27 


26 


2 


361 


5.60 



38 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



2d Week 


SUNDAY 




14th Day 


Recipe 
No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


1 c. 
1 c. 

1 si. 

1 C. 

1 si. 

2 si. 

1 h.T. 

2h.T. 
1 si. 
1 C. 


250 
250 
273 

100 

177 
75 

160 
19 

90 

79 

250 

42 


5 
17 

23 

4 
7 

10 

* 

* 
7 

1 


1 
12 

24 

* 
1 

18 
5 

1 
4 

1 


33 
109 

4 

13 
40 
88 
13 

36 
40 

14 


165 

627 

333 

69 
202 
569 

99 

157 
228 

70 


.80 
.70 

3.86 


Dinner 

67 Braised beef 

108 Canned peas and car- 
rots 


4.10 
3.17 


Bread 

45 Fruit pudding 

87 Hard sauce 

Supper 

65 Rhubarb sauce 

Bread and oleo 

3 Tea 


1.15 

221 

70 

.91 

1.36 

.13 


121 -b Milk and sugar .... 


.42 


Total 






74 
303 


67 
623 


390 
1599 


2519 
2525 


19.51 


Total Calories . . . 





Totals for Second Week 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, second week 
Average per day . . . 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



75 


71 


376 


2509 


.1953 


74 


48 


411 


2435 


.1877 


67 


53 


447 


2597 


.1834 


78 


60 


435 


2652 


.1772 


93 


42 


463 


2668 


2090 


75 


54 


363 


2295 


.1918 


74 


67 


390 


2519 


.1951 


536 


395 


2885 


17675 


1.3395 


77 


56 


412 


2525 


.1914 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 39 

3d Week MONDAY ISth Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

22 Com meal 1 C. 257 4 1 35 169 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — _ — — .70 

121-d Constants ZJZ 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

117 Vegetable hash .... 1 C. 140 9 8 36 259 1.90 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 2 80 404 2.30 

51 Rice pudding 2h.T. 133 6 7 34 229 2.11 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 ♦ 1 11 54 .24 

Supper 

63 Date and prune sauce 3 h. T. 123 2 1 66 288 2.20 
4 Baking powder bis- 
cuit 3 90 8 11 45 313 1.60 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 6 12 126 1.70 

Total 65 49 428 2469 16.91 

Total Calories . . . 266 456 1755 2477 

Man's Lunch (add*l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 33 12 442 2.00 



3d Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

29 Rice 1 C. 200 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants ^Z 17 

Dinner 

77 Meat stew 1 C. 235 36 

38 Bread pudding } C. 185 11 

Supper 

25 Oatmeal cakes 1 133 5 

Sugar It. 4 — 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 * 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 88 

Total Calories . . . 361 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

73 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 



16th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



4t 


40 


180 


1.00 


— 






.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


46 


28 


691 


8.00 


10 


41 


306 


3.20 


3 


16 


115 


.53 


4 


4 


16 


.-^ 


1 


31 


136 


1.50 


9 


80 


469 


2.70 


— 


— . 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


86 


363 


2610 


22.04 


800 


1488 


2649 





11 



5 209 4.15 



40 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

3d Week WEDNESDAY 17th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams rics Cents 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 1 40 198 .60 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — — -~ — 70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

104 Bean loaf f C 190 21 11 61 438 2.76 

Tomatoes 2 200 2 ♦ 8 41 2.00 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

49 Prune jelly 2 h.T. 200 4 — 60 262 2.86 

Supper 

61 Apricot sauce 3 h.T. 150 3 1 48 218 2.05 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

7 Cake 2 si. 80 6 8 55 326 1.90 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 74 39 475 2612 19.79 

Total Calories . . . 303 363 1948 2614 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 ♦ 504 5.00 

(21" X 25" X I") 



3d Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat ... 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

74 Meat pie 4 h. T. 200 Z7 

110 Boiled onion 1 85 2 

Oleo It. 4 * 

27 Apple tapioca 4 h.T. 200 — 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

48 Junket i C 126 4 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1__ 

Total 80 

Total Calories . . , 328 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



18th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


33 


165 


.80 


-^ 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


23 


36 


514 


723 


♦ 


10 


49 


.41 


3 




28 


.21 


1 


55 


235 


1.50 


8 


80 


469 


2.72 


5 


10 


104 


1.17 




57 


234 


.70 








.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


54 


404 


2495 


19.85 


502 


1656 


2486 





— 129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



41 



3d Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

57 Salmon loaf 1 C. 240 21 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

42 Cornstarch pudding 2 h. T. 110 4 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 prunes 125 1 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

10 Fruit cookies 4 100 5 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 76 

Total Calories ... 312 

Man's Lunch (add*l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

Oleo for2sL bread 2 t. 8 * 



19th Day 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate Calo- 
Grams Grams ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



3 


23 


147 


.30 


— 


_ 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


18 


32 


384 


414 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


5 


25 


166 


1.46 




34 


143 


1.07 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


11 


70 


410 


188 


^— 


_— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


56 


427 


2581 


17.62 


521 


1751 


2584 




10 




152 


500 


7 


— 


65 


.42 



3d Week SATURDAY 

Measure 
Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

1 III . ■ I ■■ . . — 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

93 Farina soup li C. 333 13 

99 Baked bean loaf and 

tomato sauce 1 C. 225 18 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

36 Apple pudding 4 h. T. 164 6 

and 

87 Hard sauce 1 h. T. 19 * 

Supper 

5 Com bread 1 60 5 

and 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 
purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 27 



20th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



* 
12 


32 
109 


143 
627 


.30 

.70 

3.86 


12 


31 


292 


3.06 


12 

1 
7 


52 
40 
56 


399 
202 
320 


3.15 
1.15 
2.30 



13 99 



.70 



32 199 1.20 

57 234 .70 
12 126 1.70 



60 434 2641 18.82 
558 1779 2640 



26 



2 361 5.60 



42 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



3d Week 


SUNDAY 




2l8t Day 


Recipe 

No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


Breakfast 

20 Farina 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


1 c. 
1 c. 

1 c. 

1 si. 

1 si. 

3 h.T. 

2 si. 
1 C. 


250 5 
250 — 
273 17 

235 36 

75 7 

150 6 

125 ♦ 

80 6 

230 5 


1 

12 

46 

1 
7 

1 
8 
6 


34 
109 

28 
40 
70 

31 

55 
12 


169 

627 

691 
202 
377 

136 
326 
126 


.50 
.70 

3.86 


Dinner 

Ti T-amb stew 

Bread 

50 Prune loaf 

Supper 

58 Apple sauce 

7 Cake 

1 Cocoa 


8.00 
1.15 
2.13 

1.50 
1.90 
1.70 


Total 

Total Calories . . . 




82 
336 


82 
763 


379 
1554 


2654 
2653 


21.42 
21.42 



Totals for Third Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Gr 



rrams 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, third week. 
Average per day. . . 



Calories 



Cost in 

Dollars 



65 


49 


428 


2469 


.1691 


88 


86 


363 


2610 


2204 


74 


39 


475 


2612 


.1979 


80 


54 


404 


2495 


.1985 


76 


56 


427 


2581 


.1762 


74 


60 


434 


2641 


.1882 


82 


82 


379 


2654 


.2142 


539 


426 


2910 


18062 


1.3645 


n 


61 


416 


2580 


.1949 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



43 



4th Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

75 Meat pie with po- 
tato crust 4h.T. 225 20 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

106 Beets 4 h. T. 200 5 

Oleo It 4 * 

41 Cottage pudding ... 2 si. 144 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

61 Apricot sauce 3 h. T. 150 3 

11 Ginger cookies 6 60 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar ^ 1 

Total 75 

Total Calories ... 308 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



22d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 34 169 
12 109 627 



14 

1 

* 

3 
10 

4 
1 
3 

1 



30 
40 
15 

77 



335 

202 

83 

28 

434 



40 230 

48 218 

50 249 

14 70 



.50 

.70 

3.86 



4.10 
1.15 
1.25 
.21 
2.38 

1.36 

2.05 

.84 

.13 

.42 



50 457 2645 21.70 
465 1874 2647 



33 



12 442 2.00 



4th Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat. : . . . 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

33 Cheese fondue i C. 182 19 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

107 Greens 2h.T. 100 2 

51 Rice pudding 2 h. T. 133 6 

88 Lemon sauce 4 T. 64 ♦ 

Supper 

60 Baked apple 1 apple 135 1 

9 Gingerbread 2i cakes 100 6 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 77 

Total Calories ... 316 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

73 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 



23d Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


40 


198 


.60 


— 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


23 


32 


423 


4.12 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


4 


3 


57 


2.50 


7 


34 


229 


2.11 


2 


22 


108 


.48 


1 


26 


120 


1.21 


7 


69 


372 


1.25 


6 


12 


126 


1,70 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


— > 






.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


69 


441 


2762 


21.59 


642 


1808 


2766 





11 



5 209 4.15 



44 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

4th Week WEDNESDAY 24th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

- - -r ■ ■■ I ■ 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat... 1 C. 250 5 1 33 165 .80 

2 Coffee IC. 250 — — — — 70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

102 Scalloped lima beans 1 C. 300 15 5 53 326 3.00 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

80 Potato salad 1 C. 150 4 ♦ 31 143 1.00 

120 French dressing . . . 2 t. 9 — 7 — 65 .19 

44 Custard 2 h. T. 134 7 8 19 181 2.40 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 125 1 — 34 142 1.07 

Bread and oleo . . . . 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

8 Fruit cake 2 pieces 100 4 3 83 384 1.76 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 75 47 496 2774 19.20 

Total Calories .. . 308 437 2034 2779 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 ♦ 504 5.00 

(21" X 2 J" X I") 



4th Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

100 Baked bean stew. . . U C. 320 11 

Raw tomatoes (2) 

or stewed tomatoes 4 T. 200 2 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

40 Chocolate farina 

pudding 3-h. T. 141 7 

Supper 

23 Fried corn mush ... f C. 192 3 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 72 

Total Calories . . . 295 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



25th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



3 

12 


23 
1^ 


147 
627 


.30 

.70 

3.86 


8 


39 


279 


2.00 


4 


8 
40 


41 
230 


2.00 
1.36 


7 


33 


229 


2.60 


1 

"9 

6 


27 
57 
80 
12 


132 
234 
469 
126 


23 

.70 

2.72 

1.70 


50 

465 


428 

1755 


2514 
2515 


iai7 


9 


— 


129 


5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



45 



4th Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Corn meal 1 C. 250 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

27 Macaroni and cheese 1 C. 200 • 10 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

45 Fruit pudding 2 si. 160 10 

87 Hard sauce 1 h.T. 19 ♦ 

Supper 

62 Baked banana 1 100 1 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

Total 75 

Total Calories ... 308 

Man's Lunch ( add'l ) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

Oleo for 2 si. bread 2t 8 * 



26th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


35 


169 


.30 




— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


14 


32 


302 


2.38 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


18 


88 


569 


221 


5 


13 


99 


.70 


1 


32 


144 


1.38 


6 


12 


126 


1.70 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


68 


481 


2909 


18.25 


632 


1972 


2912 




10 




152 


5.00 


7 


-. 


65 


.42 



4th Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

103 Bean puree 1 C. 250 29 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

6 Griddle cakes 4 156 12 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

29 Boiled rice i C. 100 2 

121-b Milk and sugar 73 2 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 83 

Total Calories . . . 340 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2sau'ges 140 27 



27th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


45 


219 


2.00 


_ 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


8 


76 


505 


3.03 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


10 


64 


404 


2.66 


— 


57 


234 


70 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


* 


20 


90 


.50 


2 


15 


88 


72 


._ 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


39 


480 


2669 


17.23 


363 


1968 


2671 




26 


2 


361 


5.60 



46 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



»4th Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 CoflFee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

68 Flank steak with 1 si. 317 24 

vegetables 1 C. 

101 Lima beans 2 h. T. 75 5 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

46 Fruit shortcake 

(strawberry) 1 si. 158 6 

Supper 

60 Baked apple 1 135 1 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 81 

Total Calories . . . 332 



28th Day 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate Calo- 
Grams Crams ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



♦ 


32 


143 


.30 





— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


22 


23 


387 


4,38 


* 


20 


103 


.59 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


12 


52 


350 


3.30 


1 


26 


120 


1.21 


9 


54 


309 


1.41 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 




— . 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


67 


450 


2780 


20.17 


623 


1845 


2800 





Totals for Fourth Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Gr 



irams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, fourth week. 
Average per day 



75 
77 
75 
72 
75 
83 
81 



538 
77 



50 
69 
47 
50 
68 
39 
67 



390 

56 



457 
441 
496 
428 
481 
480 
450 



3233 
462 



2645 
2762 
2774 
2514 
2909 
2669 
2780 



.2170 
.2159 
.1920 
.1817 
.1825 
.1723 
.2017 



19053 
2722 



1.3631 
.1947 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



47 



5th Week MONDAY 



29th Day 



Recipe 
No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


Breakfast 
















Shredded wheat . . . 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


2 biscuits 58 

1 C. 250 

27Z 


6 
17 


1 
12 


45 
109 


219 
627 


2.00 
.70 

3.86 


Dinner 




109 Lentil hash 

Bread 

106 Beets 

Oleo 

44 Custard 


1 C. 
1 si. 
1 

1 t. 

2 h.T. 


240 

75 

200 

4 

134 


10 
7 

7 


4 
1 

' 3 
8 


41 
40 
15 

19 


246 

202 

83 

28 

181 


1.79 
1.15 
1.25 
2\ 
2.40 


Supper 

Bread and oleo 

Dates 

13 Oat wafers 

3 Tea 

121-b Milk and sugar 


2 si. 
10 
5 
1 C. 


158 
83 
50 

250 
42 


14 
2 

5 

1 


9 
2 
8 

1 


80 
59 
ZZ 

14 


469 
269 
230 

70 


2.72 

1.80 

.74 

.13 

.42 


Total 

Total Calories . . . 






74 
303 


49 

456 


455 
1866 


2624 
2625 


19.17 


Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 


4T. 


72 


21 


33 


12 


442 


2.00 


5th Week 


TUESDAY 




30th Day 


Recipe 

No. Material 


Measure 

for One 

Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


Breakfast 
















19 Cream of wheat . : . 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 


1 c. 
1 c. 


250 
250 
273 


5 
17 


1 

12 


33 
109 


165 

627 


.80 

.70 

3.86 


Dinner 




73 Meat loaf 


1 si. 

2 T. 

2 h.T. 
2 si. 


104 
40 
93 

144 


21 

1 
7 
6 


11 
4 
7 

10 


5 

4 

36 

77 


209 

57 

242 

434 


4.15 


89 Tomato sauce 

114 Scalloped potatoes.. 
41 Cottage pudding . . . 


.90 
1.82 
2.38 


Supper 

48 Junket 

13 Oat wafers 

Bread and oleo 

3 Tea 

121-b Milk and sugar 


i C. 
5 

1 si. 
1 C. 


126 
50 
79 

250 
42 


4 

5 
7 

1 


5 
8 
4 

1 


10 
33 
40 

14 


104 
230 
230 

70 


1.17 
.74 

1.36 
.13 
.42 


Total 

Total Calories . . . 






74 
303 


63 
586 


361 
1480 


2368 
2369 


18.43 



Man's Lunch (add'l) 
7Z Meat loaf 1 si. 



104 



21 



11 



5 209 4.15 



48 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



Sth Week WEDNESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Materia! Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

96 Scotch barley soup. . 1 C. 240 3 

32 Scalloped rice 1 C. 160 3 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

39 Chocolate pudding. . 2h. T. 155 7 

Supper 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

Cheese 1 cu. in. 20 6 

14 Fudge 2i pieces 50 2 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 76 

Total Calories . . . 312 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 

(2V X 2V X I") 



31st Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



3 


23 


147 


.30 


— 


•^ 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


4 


20 


131 


.70 


2 


25 


134 


.95 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


8 


42 


275 


2.77 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


7 


* 


90 


.96 


4 


43 


221 


1.36 


4 


28 


163 


.95 


— _ 


_. 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


56 


464 


2731 


18.12 


521 


1902 


2735 




4 


40 


230 


1.36 


40 


♦ 


504 


5.00 



Sth Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

72 Meat balls with rice 2 210 31 

107 Beet greens 2 h. T. 100 2 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

49 Prune jelly 2 h.T. 200 4 

Supper 

65 Rhubarb sauce 2 h.T. 90 * 

9 Gingerbread 2i cakes 100 6 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 77 

Total Calories ... 316 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



32d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 

12 



14 
3 
4 



1 
7 
6 



34 169 
109 627 



24 
3 

40 
60 



355 

48 

230 

262 



36 157 
69 372 
12 126 



48 387 2346 
446 1587 2349 



.50 

.70 

3.86 



6.00 
2.50 
1.36 
2.86 



.91 
1.25 
1.70 



21.64 



— 129 5.0) 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



49 



Sth Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grama Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

52 Baked stuffed fish . . I si. 152 33 

82 Butter sauce i C. 28 ♦ 

28 Macaroni croquettes 2 110 6 

86 Cheese sauce li T. 30 2 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

Dates 10 83 2 

Supper 

4 Baking powder bis- 
cuits 2 60 5 

Berries with U T. 

sugar 3 h. T. 115 1 

15 Molasses candy .... 3i pieces 56 2 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 82 

Total Calories . . . 336 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

Oleo for 2sL bread 2 T. 8 ♦ 



33d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 

12 



4 
3 
5 
4 
4 
2 



40 
109 

7 
1 

19 

3 

40 

59 



198 
627 



201 
32 

150 
57 

230 

269 



1 
1 

1 



26 120 
54 238 

14 70 



.60 

.70 

3.86 



3.03 
.18 

1.46 
.67 

1.36 

1.80 



30 209 1.10 



3.14 
.80 
.13 
.42 



45 402 2401 19.25 
419 1648 2403 



10 
7 



152 
65 



5.00 
.42 



Sth Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

94 Lentil soup U C. 291 18 

Tomatoes 2 200 2 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

34 Apple Betty 2 h. T. 155 5 

Supper 

25 Oatmeal cakes 1 133 5 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

Milk 1 glass 220 7 

Total 80 

Total Calories . . . 328 

Man's Lunch (add*l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2 sau'ages 140 27 



34th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


34 


169 


.50 


— 






.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


4 


42 


283 


2.35 


* 


8 


41 


2.00 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


5 


44 


248 


2.50 


3 


16 


115 


.53 


— 


57 


234 


.70 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


9 


11 


158 


2.30 


47 


441 


2574 


19.52 


437 


1808 


2573 





26 



2 361 5.60 



50 



5th Week 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 
SUNDAY 



35th Day 







Measure 








Carbo- 




Cost 


Recipe 




for One 


Weight 


Protein 


Fat 


hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 


in 


No. 


Material 


Person 


Grams 


Grams 


Grams 


ries 


Cents 




Breakfast 
















29 


Rice 


1 c. 


200 


4 


^ 


40 


180 


1.00 


2 


Coffee 


1 c 


250 


— ■ 


— 


.^ 




.70 


121 -d Tonstants 




273 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 




Dinner 




69 


Pot roast 


H si. 

1 


150 
130 


41 
4 


12 

* 


32 


280 
147 


10.00 


112 


Baked potatoes 


1.00 




Bread 


1 si. 


75 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


79 


Lettuce salad 


4 leaves 


SO 


1 


* 


1 


8 


1.00 


12U 


French dressing . . . 


2 t 


9* 


— 


7 


— 


65 


.19 


47 


Baked Indian pud- 


















ding 


2 h.T. 


142 


7 


7 


32 


225 


1.95 




Supper 
















64 


Prune sauce 


5 


125 


1 


— 


34 


143 


1.07 




Bread and oleo 


1 si. 


79 


7 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


8 


Fruit cake 


2 pieces 


100 


4 


3 


83 


384 


1.76 


3 


Tea 


1 C. 


250 






— 




.13 


121-b 


1 Milk and sugar 

Total 




42 


1 


1 


14 


70 


.42 








94 


47 


425 


2561 


25.59 




Total Calories . . . 






385 


437 


1743 


2565 





Totals for Fifth Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Gr 



■rams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, fifth week. 
Average per day. . 



74 


49 


455 


2624 


.1917 


74 


63 


361 


2368 


.1843 


76 


56 


464 


2731 


.1812 


77 


48 


387 


2346 


.2164 


82 


45 


402 


2401 


.1925 


80 


47 


441 


2574 


.1952 


94 


47 


425 


2561 


.2559 


557 


355 


2935 


17605 


1.4172 


80 


51 


419 


2515 


.2025 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



51 



6th Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

76 Scalloped meat, 
macaroni and to- 
mato 3 h. T. 190 20 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

42 Cornstarch pudding 2 h. T. 110 4 

, Supper 

101 Lima bean salad 2 h. T. 75 5 

119 Boiled salad dressing 2 T. 50 2 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

Jelly 2 h. T. 70 1 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 11 

Total Calories ... 316 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



36th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 

12 



40 198 
109 627 



8 
4 
5 



4c 

5 
2 



1 



21 242 
40 230 
25 166 



20 
5 

80 
25 



103 

76 

404 

107 



14 70 



.60 

.70 

3.86 



4.10 
1.36 
1.46 



.59 
1.04 
2.30 

.13 

.42 



38 379 2223 16.89 
353 1554 2223 



V^ 



12 442 2.00 



6th Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Com meal 1 C. 257 4 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

93 Wheat or farina soup li C. ZZZ 13 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

1 12 Potato, baked 1 130 4 

116 Scalloped tomatoes. . i C. 117 3 
45 Steamed fruit pud- 
ding 2 si. 160 10 

87 Hard sauce 1 h. T. 19 * 

Supper 

30 Rice cakes 2 160 6 

84 Brown sugar syrup 2 T. 36 — 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

3 Tea 1 C 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 72 

Total Calories . . . 295 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

73 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 



37th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


35 


169 


.30 


— 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


12 


31 


292 


3.06 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


* 


32 


147 


1.00 


4 


11 


94 


1.40 


18 


88 


569 


2.21 


5 


13 


99 


.70 


2 


36 


192 


1.66 


— 


57 


234 


.70 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 




_— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


60 


506 


2925 


18.65 


558 


2075 


2928 





11 



5 209 4.15 



52 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

6th Week WEDNESDAY 38th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grama riea Cents 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 * 32 143 M 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121.d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

102 Scalloped lima beans 1 C. 300 15 5 53 326 3.00 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 2 80 404 2.30 

40 Chocolate farina 

pudding 3 h. T. 141 7 7 33 229 2.60 

Supper 

Bread and oleo . . . . 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 ♦ 1 31 136 1.50 

8 Fruitcake 2 pieces 100 4 3 83 384 1.76 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 75 40 515 2788 19.29 

Total Calories .. . 307 372 2112 2791 19.29 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 ♦ 504 5.00 



6th Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Com meal 1 C. 257 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

97 Split pea soup 1 C. 245 17 

114 Scalloped potatoes.. 2h. T. 93 7 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

43 Cream tapioca pud- 
ding 4 h. T. 159 8 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

Cream cheese 1 si. 16 3 

7 Cake 2 pieces 80 6 

3 Tea 1 C 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 84 

Total Calories . . . 344 

Man's Lunch (add*l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



39th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


35 


169 


.30 





— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


4 


42 


279 


1.10 


7 


36 


242 


1.82 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


8 


30. 


230 


2.80 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


4 


♦ 


49 


1.00 


8 


55 


326 


1.90 


-_ 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


55 


441 


2663 


17.90 


512 


1808 


2664 





— 129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



53 



6th Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Peraon Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

54 Codfish balls 2 132 19 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

31 Rice and cheese.... 3 h. T. 139 12 

49 Prune jelly 2 h. T. 200 4 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

84 Brown sugar syrup 2 T. 36 — 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 80 

Total Calories ... 328 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

Oleo for 2 si. bread 2 t. 8 ♦ 



40th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grama ries Cents 



1 
12 

3 

4 

12 



4 



45 
109 



17 
40 
27 
60 



40 
32 
57 
12 



219 
627 

176 
230 
272 
262 



230 
143 
234 
126 



42 439 2519 
391 1800 2519 



2.00 

.70 

3.86 



2.35 
1.36 
2.27 
2.86 

1.36 
.30 
.70 

1.70 



19.46 



10 
7 



— 152 

- 65 



5XX) 
.42 



6th Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

7Z Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 

89 Tomato sauce 2 T. 40 1 

111 Scalloped onions ... 1 140 5 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

47 Indian pudding 2 h. T. 142 7 

Supper 

65 Rhubarb sauce 2 h. T. 90 * 

7 Cake 2 pieces 80 6 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

Total 78 

Total Calories . . . 320 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2 sau'ages 140 27 



4l8t Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 

12 



11 
4 

10 
1 
7 



1 
8 

1 
4 



40 198 
109 ^ 



5 

4 
20 
40 
32 



209 
57 
196 
202 
225 



36 157 

55 326 

14 ^ 

40 230 



.60 

70 

3.86 

4.15 
SO 
1.63 
1.15 
1.95 



.91 

1.90 

.13 

.42 

1.36 



60 395 2497 19.66 
558 1620 2498 



26 



2 361 5.60 



54 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



6th Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat. ... 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants ZJZ 17 

Dinner 

66 Corned beef and 2 si. 

Cabbage 3 h. T. 20O 36 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

Sliced orange ( 1 ) and 

banana (i), with 

sugar (3 t) 262 2 

Supper 

59 Apple sauce (dried 

apples) 4 h. T. 177 ♦ 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

11 Ginger cookies 6 60 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 79 

Total Calories . . . 324 



42d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 

12 



45 
1 



1 
4 
3 

1 



33 
1^ 



165 
6^ 



30 132 

40 230 

50 249 

14 "to 



69 372 2489 
642 1525 2491 



.80 

70 

3.86 



10 608 10.00 
40 202 1.15 



46 206 3.25 



1.00 

1.36 

.84 

.13 

.42 



23.51 



Totals for Sixth Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Gr 



irams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, sixth week. 
Average per day. . 



n 


38 


379 


2223 


.1689 


n 


60 


506 


2925 


.1865 


75 


40 


515 


2788 


.1929 


84 


55 


441 


2663 


.1790 


80 


42 


439 


2519 


.1946 


78 


60 


395 


2497 


.1966 


79 


69 


372 


2489 


.2351 


545 


364 


3047 


18104 


1.3536 


78 


52 


435 


2586 


.1934 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



55 



7th Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

7Z Meatloaf 1 si. 104 21 

83 Brown gravy 1 C. — * 

102 Scalloped lima beans 1 C. 300 15 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

27 Apple tapioca 4 h. T. 200 * 

Supper 

48 Junket i C. 126 4 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

12 Oatmeal macaroons 3 30 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 86 

Total Calories . . . 353 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



43d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



* 


32 


143 


.30 


— 






.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


11 


5 


209 


4.15 


3 


2 


36 


.24 


5 


53 


326 


3.00 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


1 


55 


235 


1.50 


5 


10 


104 


1.17 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


3 


25 


147 


.74 


->- 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


51 


425 


ZS68 


20.08 


474 


1743 


2570 




3Z 


12 


442 


2.00 



7th Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat. ... 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

31 Rice and cheese. ... 3 h. T. 139 12 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

107 Spinach 2 h. T. 100 2 

50 Prune loaf 1 si. 150 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 ♦ 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (addl) 

73 Meatloaf 1 si. 104 21 



44th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grama 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


33 


165 


.80 


— 


— • 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


12 


27 


272 


2.27 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


4 


3 


57 


2.50 


7 


70 


Z77 


2.13 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


1 


31 


136 


1.50 


4 


28 


163 


.95 


— 






.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


53 


475 


2740 


20.28 


493 


1948 


2744 





11 



5 209 4.15 



S6 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



7th Week WEDNESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Peraon Grama Grama 

Breakfast 

22 Com meal 1 C. 257 4 

2 Coflfee 1 C. 250 — 

121 -d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

94 Lentil soup U C. 291 18 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

41 Cottage pudding 2 si. 144 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

62 Banana, baked 1 100 1 

1 Cocoa 1 C 230 5 

11 Ginger cookies 6 60 4 

Total 76 

Total Calories ... 312 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo. . . 1 si. 79 7 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 

(2f» X 2V X i") 



45th Day 



Carbo- Coat 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grama Grama riea Centa 



1 
12 

4 

2 

10 



4 
1 

6 
3 



35 169 
109 627 



42 283 
80 404 
77 434 



40 
32 
12 
50 



230 
144 
126 
249 



43 477 2666 
400 1956 2668 



.30 

.70 

3.86 



2.35 
2.30 
2.38 



1.36 

1.38 

1.70 

.84 



17.17 



4 
40 



40 230 
♦ 504 



1.36 
5.00 



7th Week 



THURSDAY 



46th Day 



Measure 
Recipe for One Weight 
No. Material Person Gramg 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C 245 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 

121 -d Constants 273 

Dinner 

76 Scalloped meat, 
macaroni and to- 
matoes 3 h. T. 190 

106 Beets 1 200 

120 French dressing 2 t. 9 

Bread 1 si. 75 

12 Oatmeal macaroons 3 30 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 

61 Apricot sauce 3 h. T. 150 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 

121 -b Milk and sugar 42 

Total 

Total Calories . . . 

Man*s Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 
2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 



Carbo- Coat 

Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams Grams riea Cents 



3 


* 


32 


143 


.30 


— 


— 


— 




.70 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


20 


8 


21 


242 


4.10 


5 


♦ 


15 


83 


1.25 


— 


7 


— . 


65 


.19 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


4 


3 


25 


147 


.74 


14 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


3 


1 


48 


218 


2.05 


3 


9 


54 


309 


1.41 


— 




— 




.13 


1 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


77 


51 


438 


2575 


19.02 


316 


409 


1820 


2545 





11 



— 129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



57 



7th Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grama Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. — — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

55 Creamed codfish ... } C. 184 29 

113 Potatoes, boiled. .. . 1 150 4 

38 Bread pudding f C. 185 11 

Sapper 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

Dates 10 83 2 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar 42 1__ 

Total 86 

Total Calories . . . 353 

Man's Lunch(add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

01eofor2slbread 2 t. 8 * 



47th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Caio- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 34 169 
12 109 627 



12 9 268 

♦ 31 143 

10 41 306 

2 80 404 

2 59 269 

4 28 163 

1 14 70 



.50 

.70 

3.86 

3.97 
1.00 
3.20 

2.30 

1.80 

.95 

.13 

.42 



44 405 2419 18^ 
409 1661 2422 



10 
7 



152 
65 



5.00 
.42 



7th Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat ... 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

26 Boiled macaroni ... 1 C. 100 3 

90 Cream sauce 4 T. 80 4 

115 Succotash f C. 160 7 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

9 Gingerbread 2i cakes 100 6 

Sapper 

Bread and oleo 2 si. 158 14 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 

59 Apple sauce (dried 

apples) 4 h. T. 177 * 

Total 71 

Total Calories . . . 291 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 27 



48th Day 



Carbo- 

Pat hydrate 

Grams Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



1 
12 



10 

5 
1 
7 



9 
6 
9 

1 



33 165 
109 ^ 



19 
8 
35 
40 
69 



90 
142 
220 
202 
372 



80 469 
12 126 
54 309 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



.80 
.70 

3.86 



.50 
1.30 
2.70 
1.15 
1.25 

2.72 
1.70 
1.41 



30 132 1.00 



61 489 2854 19.09 
558 2005 2854 



26 



2 361 5.60 



S8 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



7th Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Gnuna 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

78 Smoked shoulder... 1 si. 135 36 

Tomatoes, fresh or 2 

canned 4 h. T. 200 2 

113 Potato, boiled 1 150 4 

35 Dutch apple cake... 1 si. HI 7 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 * 

Sapper 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

63 Date and prune jam 3 h. T. 123 2 

8 Fruit cake 2 pieces 100 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 



49th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calo- 
ries 



Coat 

in 
Cents 



3 


23 


147 


.30 


— 






.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


73 


— 


827 


10.60 


♦ 


8 


41 


2.00 


* 


31 


143 


1.00 


8 


47 


296 


2.46 


1 


11 


54 


.24 


4 


40 


230 


IJ36 


1 


6S 


288 


2.22 


3 


83 


384 


1.76 


__ 


^_ 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



Total 86 106 

Total Calories ... 353 435 


432 3107 27.05 
1771 3110 


Totals for Seventh Week 


Carbo- 
Protein Fat hydrate 
Grams Grams Grams 


Cost in 
Calories Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday , 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, seventh week. 
Average per day 



86 


51 


425 


2568 


.2008 


74 


53 


475 


2740 


.2028 


76 


43 


477 


2666 


.1717 


77 


51 


438 


2575 


.1902 


86 


44 


405 


2419 


.1883 


71 


61 


489 


2854 


.1909 


86 


106 


432 


3107 


.2705 



556 
79 



409 

58 



3141 
449 



18929 
2704 



1.4152 
.2022 



Average of Totals for Seven Weeks (per person) 



Weeks 

First 

Second 

Third 

Fourth 

Fifth 

Sixth 

Seventh 

Total, seven weeks 

Aver, per person per day 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 
per day 



76 


56 


416 


2539 


.2050 


77 


56 


412 


2525 


.1914 


77 


61 


416 


2580 


.1949 


77 


56 


462 


2722 


.1947 


80 


51 


419 


2515 


.2025 


78 


52 


435 


2586 


.1934 


79 


58 


449 


2704 


.2022 


544 


390 


3009 


18171 


1.3841 


78 


56 


430 


2596 


.1977 



RECIPES—CLASSIFIED LIST 



59 



Recipes, Classified List 



I. Beverages 

1 Cocoa 

2 Coffee 

3 Tea 

II. Biscuits and Breads 

4 Baking powder biscuits 

5 Corn bread 

6 Griddle cakes 

III. Cake and Cookies 

7 Cake, plain 

8 Cake, fruit 

9 Gingerbread 

10 Cookies, fruit 

11 Cookies, ginger 

12 Oatmeal macaroons 

13 Oat wafers 

IV. Candy 

14 Fudge 

15 Molasses candy 

16 Peanut candy 

17 Penuchi 

V. Cereals and Macaroni 

18 Cracked wheat 

19 Cream of wheat 

20 Farina 

21 Hominy 

22 Com meal 

23 Com mush, fried 

24 Rolled oats 

25 Rolled oat cakes 

26 Macaroni 

27 Macaroni and cheese 

28 Macaroni croquettes 

29 Rice 

30 Rice cakes 

31 Rice and cheese 

32 Rice, scalloped 

VI. Cheese 

33 Cheese fondue 

VII. Desserts 

34 Apple Betty 

35 Apple cake, Dutch 

36 Apple pudding 

37 Apple tapioca 

38 Bread pudding 

39 Chocolate pudding 



40 Chocolate farina pudding 

41 Cottage pudding 

42 Cornstarch pudding 

43 Cream tapioca 

44 Custard 

45 Fruit pudding 

46 Fruit shortcake 

47 Indian pudding 

48 Junket 

49 Prune jelly 

50 Prune loaf 

51 Rice pudding 

VIII. FUh 

52 Fish, baked and stuffed 

53 Fish, boiled 

54 Codfish balls 

55 Codfish, creamed 

56 Codfish hash 

57 Salmon loaf 



IX. Fruits 

58 Apple sauce 

59 Apple sauce (dried apples) 

60 Apples, baked 

61 Apricot or peach sauce 

62 Bananas, baked 

63 Date and prune sauce 

64 Prune sauce 

65 Rhubarb sauce 



X. Meats 

66 Beef, corned 

67 Beef, braised 

68 Beef, flank, with vegetables 

69 Beef, pot roast 

70 Lamb, roast 

71 Meat balls, Hamburg steak 

72 Meat balls with rice 

73 Meat loaf 

74 Meat pie 

75 Meat pie with potato crust 

76 Meat, scallopea, with mac- 

aroni 

77 Meat, stew 

78 Shoulder, smoked 

XI. Salads 

79 Salad, lettuce 

80 Salad, potato 

81 Salad, vegetable 



6o 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



XII. Sauces 

82 Batter sauce 

83 Brown gravy 

84 Brown sugar syrup 

85 Caramel sauce 

86 Cheese sauce 
^ Hard sauce 

88 Lemon sauce 

89 Tomato sauce 

90 White sauce 

XIII. Soupa 

91 Chowder, com 

92 Chowder, fish 

93 Soup, cereal 

94 Soup, lentil 

95 Soup, oatmeal and potato 

96 Soup, Scotch barley 

97 Soup, split pea 

XIV. Vegetables 

96 Baked beans 
99 Baked bean loaf 



100 Baked bean stew 

101 Lima beans 

102 Lima beans, scalloped 

103 Bean puree 

104 Bean loaf 

105 Beans stewed with tomatoes 

106 Beets 

107 Beet greens or spinach 

108 Carrots and peas 

109 Lentil hash 

110 Onions, boiled 

111 Onions, scalloped 

112 Potato, baked 

113 Potato, boiled 

114 Potato, scalloped 

115 Succotash 

116 Tomato, scalloped 

117 Vegetable hash 

XV. Miscellaneoiis 

118 Cream toast 

119 Boiled salad dressing 

120 French dressing 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 6i 



No. 1 COCOA Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grains Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 2i C. 610 20 24 31 432 6.1 

Water 2i C. 

Cocoa 3i T. 25 5 7 9 123 2.1 

Sugar 2 T. 20 — — 20 82 ^ 

Total (cooked) 5 C 1150 25 31 60 637 8.4 

1 Serving 1 C. 230 5 6 12 17^ 

Calories per serving. ... 21 56 49 126 

Directions: 

Put milk and all but a little of the water in saucepan to heat. Mix sugar 

and cocoa with a little of the water to form a paste, and add this to the 
scalded milk and water. Boil for about 5 minutes. 



No. 2 COFFEE Serves 5 

Cost 
Weight in 
Material Measure Grams Cents 

Coffee 10 T. 60 3.3 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

1 Serving 1 C. .7 

Directions: 

Moisten coffee with cold water ; add to boiling water and boil from 1 to 
3 minutes. Keep hot without boiling for 10 minutes longer. Add 5 table- 
spoonsful of cold water to settle the grounds, and it is ready to serve. 



No. 3 TEA Serves 5 

__ 

Weiffht in 

Material Measure Grams Cents 

Tea 5 t. 10 .66 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

1 Serving 1 C. * .13 

Directions: 

Put the tea into a hot teapot, and pour the water, freshly boiled, over it. 
Steep 1 to 3 minutes, never longer. Do not make the tea until ready to 
serve it, for tea becomes bitter and harmful if allowed to stand. Or for 
weak tea, the leaves can be put in the tea strainer, and boiling water 
poured over them into each cup. 



62 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 4 BAKING POWDER BISCUIT Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grama ries Cents 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2S 

Salt It. 4 

Butter substitute 3 T. 36 * 31 — 288 1.3 

Baking powder 3i t. 10 .9 

Milk f C 183 6 7 9 127 1.8 

Total (cooked) 12 biscuits 360 31 41 180 1247 6.5 

Diameter, 2^" 

1 Serving 2 biscuits 60 5 7 30 hl_ 

Calories per serving 21 65 123 209 

Directions: 

Sift dry ingredients together; cut in the shortening with a knife; add 
milk gradually, mixing with a knife. Put on a floured board; pat out 
lightly with a rolling pin until about f of an inch thick. Put in a floured 
baking pan; brush over with milk and bake in a hot oven from 12 to 15 
minutes. Or cut dough with a cookie cutter and make 12 biscuits. Less 
shortening may be used (2 instead of 3 T.) and water instead of milk, 
but this will lower the food value slightly. 



No. 5 CORN BREAD Serves 8 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Corn meal 1 C. 160 15 3 121 586 1.1 

Flour 1 C. 114 12 1 85 407 1.2 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .4 

Fgg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.0 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.5 

Butter substitute 2 T. 24 * 20 186 .9 

Baking powder 4 t. 12 1.1 

Salt l_t 

Total (cooked) 8 cakes 480 42 39 258 1593 9.2 

Diameter, 3" 

1 Serving 1 cake 60 5 5 32 1.2 

Calories per serving 21 47 131 199 

Directions: 

Mix dry ingredients by sifting them together ; add milk, well-beaten egg, 
and melted butter substitute. Beat well, and bake in a shallow pan or in 
gem pan in hot oven for 20 minutes. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



63 



No. 6 GRIDDLE CAKES Serves 5 

7 Carbo- Cost 

\ Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

Materiil Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

^ — — ' 

Flour 3 C. 342 37 4 256 1239 3.60 

Baking powder H T. IS 1.40 

Salt It. 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .40 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Egg 1 SO 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Melted butter substitute. . 2T\ 24 ♦ 20 — 186 .90 

Total (cooked) 20 cakes 780 60 49 320 2014 1.33 

Diameter, 31" 

1 Serving 4 cakes 156 12 10 64 2M 

Calories per serving. ... 49 93 262 404 

Directions: 

Sift dry ingredients together ; beat the tig, mix it with the milk, and add 
it gradually to the dry mixture, keeping the batter free from lumps. Mix 
and beat well. Add melted shortening and drop by spoonfuls on a hot 
greased griddle. When the cakes are puffed up and full of bubbles on 
top and brown underneath, turn and brown on the other side. Serve hot 
with sugar or syrup. 



No. 7 CAKE, PLAIN Serves 7 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Butter substitute 4 T. 48 * 41 — 381 1.7 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.5 

Egg 1 SO 7 5 — 75 2.0 

Milk 1 C 244 8 10 12 175 2.5 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2.5 

Baking powder 4 t. 12 1.1 

Vanilla J_t 1.0 

Total (cooked) 14 pieces 565 40 59 383 2283 13.3 

2}* square 
1 Serving 2 pieces 80 6 8 55 1^ 

Calories per serving. ... 25 75 226 326 

Directions: 

Cream the butter substitute; add half the sugar and continue creaming. 
Beat egg until light, and add with the milk and the rest of the sugar to 
the creamed butter substitute. Add flour mixed with baking powder. 
Flavor ; beat well, and bake in a shallow pan about half an hour. 
The cake may be covered with a plain white icing, made by putting 2 
tablespoons ful of boiling water in a bowl, adding a few drops of vanilla 
and stirring in gradually about 1 cup of confectioner's sugar. Spread on 
cake while it is still warm. This will raise the value of each serving of 
cake about 94 calories and will increase the cost .004 per portion, or a 
little over 3 cents for the whole cake. Cocoa may also be added to the 
frosting. 



64 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

No. 8 FRUIT CAKE (2 loavet) Serves 12 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meawire Grama Grama Grama Gram> riea Cents 

Sugar 2 C. 

Shortening 2 T. 

Raisins (seedless) 1 package 

Water 2C 

Flour 3C. 342 37 4 256 1239 3.60 

Soda It. 

Cinnamon It 

Ginger 1 t J .60 

Allspice It. 

Nutmeg 1 t. 



400 


— . 


— 


400 


1640 


SM 


24 


« 


20 


— 


186 


.90 


450 


12 


15 


342 


1591 


nm 



Total (cooked) 24 pieces 1200 49 39 998 4656 21.10 

1 Seiving 2 pieces 100 4 3 83 1.76 

Calories per serving. ... 16 28 340 384 

Directions: 

Boil water, sugar, raisins, and shortening (or butter substitute) together 
for 5 minutes. When cold, stir in soda dissolved in a little warm water. 
Add flour sifted with the different spices. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
two loaves in a moderate oven. 



No. 9 GINGERBREAD Serves 8 

Carbo- Cost 

Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 21 C. 257 28 

Molasses 1 C. 320 

Fat, melted 4 T. 44 

Soda It. I 

Ginger H t. > — .2 



» 


3 


192 


930 


2.8 


8 




222 


943 


2.8 


♦ 


37 




344 


1.7 



8 


pieces 


600 


36 


40 


414 


2217 


7.5 


1 


piece 


75 


5 


5 


52 




.9 


2 


cu. m. 















Salt 

Boiling water i C. 

Total (cooked) 
1 Serving 

Calories per serving 21 213 281 

Directions: 

Mix and sift the soda, ginger, and salt with the flour. Add the water to 
the molasses, and to this slowly add the sifted flour, etc. Then add the 
melted shortening, and beat well. Bake in a shallow greased tin in a 
moderate oven for about 25 minutes, or in gem pans. This recipe makes 
15 small cakes of 40 grams each. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



65 



No. 10 FRUIT COOKIES 



Makes 36 Cookies 



Material 



Measure 



Weijfht Protein 
Grams Grams 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



Shortening i C. 

Sugar 1 C. 

Egg 1 

Molasses i C. 

Milk IT. 

Flour 2i C. 

Baking powder 2 t. 

Raisins 1 C. 

Cinnamon It. 

Nutmeg It. 

Cloves it 



96 


1 


82 


— 


767 


3.50 


200 




— 


200 


820 


2.50 


50 


7 


5 


.*_ 


75 


2.00 


160 


4 


— 


Ill 


472 


1.50 


14 


♦ 


1 


1 


13 


.— 


266 


29 


3 


199 


963 


2.80 


6 










.50 


160 


4 


5 


122 


563 


3,80 



Salt 



it. 



3673 



.30 



16.90 

1.88 

.47 



Total (cooked) 36 cookies 900 45 96 633 

1 Serving 4 cookies 100 5 11 70 

(Icookie) 25 1 3 18 

Calories per serving. ... 21 102 287 410 

Directions: 

Cream the shortening ; add the sugar, beaten egg, and molasses. Sift dry 
ingredients with 1 cup of the flour, and add to above mixture ; then add 
milk and enough flour to roll out. Chop raisins flne and add to above. RoU 
out, cut, and bake in moderate oven. 



No. 11 GINGER COOKIES Makes 40 Cookies 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Butter substitute or fat... 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Sugar i C. 50 — — 50 205 .65 

Molasses i C. 160 4 — 111 472 1.40 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2.50 

Soda |t ) 05 

Ginger i t. ) 22. 

Total (cooked) 40 cookies 400 29 23 332 1695 6.50 

1 Serving 6 cookies 60 4 3 50 .84 

Calories per serving. ... 16 28 205 249 

Directions: 

Cream shortening and sugar together. Heat the molasses and add it. Sift 
the soda and ginger with i cup of flour. Add these with enough sifted 
flour to thicken (1 to H cups). Roll dough out on a floured board; cut 
and bake in a floured, greased tin about 10 minutes. 



66 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 12 OATMEAL MACAROONS Makes 20 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Granas Grams Grama ries Cents 

Butter substitute IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .45 

Sugar 1 C. 100 — — 100 410 125 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2i» 

Rolled oats li C. 105 18 8 70 435 .95 

Baking powder It. 3 .27 

Salt i_t 

Total (cooked) 20 cookies 200 25 23 170 1013 4.92 

1 Serving 3 cookies 30 4 3 25 74 

Calories per serving.... 16 28 103 147 

Directions: 

Rub butter substitute and sugar together and mix with well-beaten egg. 
Stir the rolled oats into the mixture, and add salt and baking powder. 
Mix all together, and drop from a teaspoon about an inch apart on 
greased pans. Bake in a moderately hot oven until crisp and brown. 



No. 13 OAT WAFERS Makes 46 Wafers 

Carbo- Cost 
Weisht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rolled oats 2 C. 140 23 10 93 569 126 

Flour 2C 228 24 3 171 832 2.50 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .52 

Butter substitute 6 T. 72 1 61 — 571 2.52 

Salt it. 

Hot water __^ 

Total (cooked) 46 460 49 74 . 304 2136 6.80 

1 Serving 5 50 5 8 33 74 

Calories per serving 21 74 135 230 

Directions: 

Mix rolled oats, flour, sugar, and salt; rub in shortening; add just enough 
hot water to make dough hold together. Roll as thin as possible, cut out, 
and bake in a greased pan in a hot oven. 



RECIPES WITH 'CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



67 



No. 14 CHOCOLATE FUDGE Makes 25 pieces li inches square 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Materia! Measure Grams Grams Grama Grams riea Cents 

Sugar 2 C 400 — — 400 1640 6.00 

Milk f C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.80 

Oleo 2T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 1.27 

Cocoa 6 T. 42 9 12 16 214 3.50 

Vanilla it. 1.00 

Salt pinch 

Total (cooked) 25 pieces 500 15 39 425 2167 13.57 

1 Serving 2i pieces 50 2 4 43 217 1.36 

Calories per serving. . • • 8 37 176 221 

Directions: 

Put sugar, milk, salt, oleo, and cocoa into a smooth, clean saucepan ; place 
over the fire and heat to boiling point, stirring occasionally until sugar has 
melted, and then cook without stirring for 6 or 8 minutes, or until the 
mixture forms a soft ball when tried in cold water. Remove from the fire, 
cool, add vanilla, and beat until soft and creamy. Pour into a greased tin 
or plate, and mark off in squares. This can be used as a frosting for cake. 



No. 15 MOLASSES CANDY Makes 35 pieces 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Molasses 2 C. 640 15 — 444 1882 5.60 

Sugar i C 100 — — 100 410 1.50 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .60 

Soda pinch 

Vinegar 1 T. 

Total (cooked) 35 pieces 560 15 10 544 2385 7.70 

1 Serving 3i pieces 56 2 1 54 ,77 

Calories per serving. ... S 9 221 238 

Directions: 

Put molasses, sugar, oleo, and vinegar into a kettle or stewpan, and let 
mixture boil until brittle when tried in cold water. Add soda just before 
taking from fire, and vanilla if desired; stir well and pour out into a 
buttered dish. When cool enough to handle, pull until light colored. Cut 
in sticks or small pieces. Wrap in wax paper to keep. Peppermint or 
wintergreen may be used for flavoring, or nuts added, and the candy cut 
in squares instead of pulling. 



68 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 16 PEANUT CANDY Makes 25 pieces H inches square 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grains rics Cents 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.S0 

Peanuts (sheUed) i_C 70 18 27 17 395 5.00 

Total (cooked) 25 pieces 250 18 27 217 1215 7.50 

1 Serving 2i pieces 25 2 3 22 121 .75 

Calories per serving. ... 8 28 86 122 

Directions: 

Shell and chop 1 pint of peanuts. Put the sugar in a clean frying pan; 
place over the fire, and stir constantly until sugar melts and becomes light 
brown in color. Stir the chopped nuts in quickly, and pour at once into 
tin plate or pan. There is no need to grease the tin, as this candy does 
not stick. When candy is partly cool, cut in squares. Any nuts may be 
used in place of the peanuts. If the sugar is dried in the oven before it 
is melted in the frying pan, the candy cooks quicker. 



No. 17 PENUCHI Makes 25 pieces U inches square 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Brown sugar 2 C. 300 — — 285 1169 3.32 

Milk f C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.80 

Peanuts i C. 70 18 27 17 395 5.00 

Butter substitute .^ IT. 12 ♦ 10 — 93 .63 

Vanilla i_t LOO 

Total (cooked) 25 pieces 400 24 44 311 1784 11.75 

1 Serving 2i pieces 40 2 4 31 1.18 

Calories per serving. ... 8 37 127 172 

Directions: 

Boil together sugar and milk until mixture forms a soft ball when tried 
in cold water. Remove from the fire; add butter substitute and vanilla; 
cool, and beat until mixture is soft and creamy. Stir in nuts, pour into a 
greased tin or plate, and mark off in squares. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



69 



No. 18 CRACKED WHEAT Serves 5 

~ Carbo- Cost 

Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt 2 t. 

Cracked wheat (scant) . . . H C. 265 29 5 200 985 2.9 
Water (boiling) 6 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1230 29 5 200 985 

1 Serving 1 C. 246 6 1 40 £_ 

Calories per serving. ... 25 9 164 198 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the grain slowly to prevent lumping. If a 
double boiler is used, it is advisable, though not necessary, to cook the 
cereal oyer the fire for 5 minutes ; then cover, and replace the saucepan 
over boiling water in the lower part of the double boiler, and cook for 
5 hours. If a fireless cooker is used, the cereal can be cooked overnight. 
The cereal should be cooked over the fire 10 minutes, and the vessel placed 
in the cooker as quickly as possible, and allowed to remain for about 
12 hours, or overnight, and reheated the next morning. With the double 
boiler, it may be put on to cook at supper time, and left on the back of 
the stove all night, or put on to cook any time during the day and re- 
heated in the morning. 



No. 19 CREAM OF WHEAT Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiflrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measnre Grams Grama Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt 11 t 

Cream of wheat UC 220 23 4 167 816 3.96 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 23 4 167 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 5 1 33 ^ 

Calories per serving. ... 21 9 135 165 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and 
cook for 40 minutes. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



70 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 20 FARINA Serves S 

^^ '. Carbo- Cost 

Weifcht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meaaure Grama Grama Grama Grama riea Cents 

Salt H t 

Farina U C. 225 25 3 172 836 2.5 

Water (boiling) 6-7 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 25 3 172 836 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 5 1 34 S_ 

Calories per serving — 21 9 139 169 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and cook 
for 45 minutes. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



No. 21 HOMINY Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weifcht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grama Grama Grams ries Cents 

Salt U t. 

Hominy U C. 202 17 1 160 735 1.4 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1225 17 1 160 735 

1 Serving 1 C. 245 3 ♦ 32 147 .3 

Calories per serving. ... 12 * 131 143 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and 
cook for 4 hours. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



No. 22 CORN MEAL Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt 2 t. 

Corn meal (scant) U C. 230 21 4 173 833 1.6 

Water (boiling) 5-6 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1285 21 4 173 833 1.6 

1 Serving 1 C. 257 4 1 35 £ 

Calories per serving 16 9 144 169 

Directions: 

First mix the cereal thoroughly till smooth with a little cold water to 
avoid lumping, and stir slowly into boiling, salted water, and cook for 
3 hours. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS ^\ 



No. 23 FRIED CORN MUSH 



Directions: 

Pour cooked corn meal (Recipe No. 22) into s^eased baking powder 
tins ; cool, cover, and, when ready to use, cut in J-inch slices and fry in 
hot salt pork fat or drippings. Serve with syrup, or if with meat, as a 
vegetable without the syrup. Hominy may also be prepared in the same 
way. Allow about f cup cooked cereal for each person served. 



No. 24 ROLLED OATS Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grama Grams Grains ries Cents 

Salt 21 t. 

Rolled oas 2i C. 175 29 13 116 715 1.57 

Water (boiling) 5-6 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 29 13 116 715 1.57 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 6 3 23 ^ 

Calories per serving. ... 25 28 94 147 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and 
cook for 1 hour. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



No. 25 OATMEAL CAKES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grama Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oatmeal (cooked) 4 C. 1000 23 10 93 569 1.20 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Total (cooked) 6 cakes 800 30 15 93 644 3.20 

1 Serving 1 cake 133 5 3 16 ^ 

Calories per serving. ... 21 28 66 115 

Directions: 

Put left-over oatmeal into a small mold, and stand away to harden. When 
ready to use, turn it out and cut it in slices \ inch thick, in strips about 
1 inch wide. Dip in ^^^^ and fry. Dust with sugar, and serve for dessert 
or eat plain as meat course. 



72 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 26 BOILED MACARONI Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grama Grams Grams ries Cents 

Macaroni U C. 150 20 1 111 546 3.0 

Boiling water 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 600 20 1 111 546 3.0 

1 Serving 1 C. 100 3 ♦19 ^ 

Calories per serving 12 78 90 

Directions: 

Break macaroni into pieces 1 inch or longer; cover with boiling, salted 
water and cook until tender, usually 20 minutes or thereabouts. Drain, 
turn into a colander, place under the cold water faucet, and let the cold 
water run through the macaroni until it is white and free from all the 
stickiness usually found when freshly boiled. Serve with cream sauce or 
season with salt and pepper and a little oleo. 



No. 27 MACARONI AND CHEESE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Cooked macaroni (No. 26) 8 C. 800 27 2 148 736 4.00 

White sauce (No. 89) .... 2 C. 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 
Grated cheese j_C 50 1 18 ♦ 225 2.40 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1200 61 81 193 1795 14.26 

1 Serving 1 C. 200 10 14 32 2J8 

Calories per serving 41 130 131 302 

Directions: 

Grease a pudding dish, put in a layer of cooked macaroni, spread with 
grated cheese and white sauce, and repeat until dish is full, havmg a layer 
of cheese on top. Place in oven until cheese melts, and serve hot. Bread 
crumbs may be sprinkled over the top and browned. Tomato sauce may 
be used in place of the white sauce, but the food then has a lower caloric 
value. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 73 



No. 28 MACARONI CROQUETTES Serves 5 

Carbo* Cost 
Wcisrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Macaroni 1 C 100 13 * 74 357 2.00 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.50 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 ♦ 10 49 .16 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) lOcroqu't's 550 30 26 96 749 7.29 

1 Serving 2croquVs 110 6 5 19 L46 

Calories per serving. ... 25 47 78 150 

Directions: 

Cook i package of macaroni in boiling, salted water until tender; then 
drain and chop fine. Heat 1 cup of milk, and when hot, stir into it a paste 
made from the oleo or fat and flour. Add salt and pepper and cook until 
thick, stirring constantly. Beat the egg yolk well, and gradually pour 
onto it the hot milk mixture. Return to the double boiler, and cook a few 
minutes longer. Add chopped macaroni ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, shape. Beat the egg white slightly; dip the croquettes first in 
crumbs, then in the egg white, then in crumbs again. Fry in deep, hot fat 
to a golden brown. Serve with cheese sauce. 



No. 29 RICE, STEAMED Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiflrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rice U C. 250 20 1 198 903 5.0 

Boiling water f C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1000 20 1 198 903 5.0 

1 Serving 1 C. 200 4 40 1^ 

Calories per serving. ... 16 * 164 180 

Directions: 

Put rice in strainer and let cold water run over it several times. Then 
add washed rice to the boiling, salted water (H t. salt), and let it cook 
2 or 3 minutes, stirring with a fork to prevent its sticking; place over 
boiling water, and let it cook 45 minutes, or until kernels are soft: un« 
cover, and stir gently with a fork to let the steam escape. 



74 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 30 RICE CAKES Serves 5 

Carbo- Cort 

Weiffht Protein Fat hrdrate Calo- in 
Material Mcawire Grams Grama Grama GranM ries Cents 

Boiled rice 4 C. 800 16 1 158 723 4.00 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 — 156 4.00 

Sugar 2 T. 20 — -- 20 82 .30 

Total (cooked) 10 cakes 800 29 12 178 961 8.30 

1 Serving 2 cakes 160 6 2 36 1.66 

Calories per serving.... 25 19 148 192 

Directions: 

To boiled rice add eggs, sugar, and a sprinkling of nutmeg. (If not soft 
enough, add a little milk or melted oleo.) Shape into fkit cakes about 
i inch thick. Roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep fat or brown in just 
a little fat. Serve with brown sugar syrup. 



No. 31 RICE AND CHEESE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rice 1 C. 200 16 1 158 723 4.00 

Cheese (grated) 2 C. 200 58 72 1 912 9.60 

Total (cooked) 18 h. T. 834 74 73 159 1635 13.60 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 139 12 12 27 2.27 

Calories per serving.... 49 112 111 272 

Directions: 

Steam rice according to Recipe No. 29, and arrange in layers in a greased 
pudding dish, with grated cheese between and on top. Place in oven until 
cheese melts and rice is thoroughly heated. If left-over boiled rice is on 
hand, use about 4 cups. 



No. 32 SCALLOPED RICE Serves 6 

' ~ Carbo- Cost 

WeiRht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Boiled rice 3 C. 600 12 * 119 537 3.00 

Tomatoes i C. 150 2 * 6 33 1.50 

Butter substitute IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .45 

Bread crumbs i C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 3 C. 960 19 12 149 791 5.70 

1 Serving i C. 160 3 2 25 S5 

Calories per serving 72 19 103 134 

Directions: 

Arrange alternate layers of boiled rice (No. 29) and fresh or canned 
tomatoes in a baking dish ; season with salt and pepper, cover with bread 
crumbs and a few dots of butter substitute or oleo, and bake until well 
heated through and the crumbs are browned. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 75 



No. 33 CHEESE FONDUE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Bread H C. 170 15 3 91 463 3.40 

Cheese UC 170 49 61 1 772 7.99 

Butter substitute 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Egg 1 50 7 S — 75 2.00 

Soda crackers 10 60 6 6 44 261 1.31 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 3f C. 910 93 115 160 2107 20.60 

1 Serving t C. 182 19 23 32 4.12 

Calories per serving 78 214 131 423 

Directions: 

Break dry bread into small pieces or cut it in 1 inch squares, and soak in 
milk until soft. Melt butter substitute and add cheese. When cheese has 
melted^ add the soaked bread, egg slightly beaten, and seasoning. Cook a 
short time, until mixture thickens, and serve on soda crackers, toast, or 
plain. Or grease custard cups or pudding dish, put in mixture, and brown 
m oven. 



No. 34 APPLE BETTY Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples 7 750 3 4 107 488 8.3 

Bread crumbs 2i C. 180 21 3 110 565 3.4 

Milk * C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.8 

Butter substitute li T. 18 * 15 — 140 .7 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .4 

Cinnamon |_t .1 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 930 30 29 266 1484 14.7 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 155 5 5 44 2.5 

Calories per serving. ... 21 47 180 248 

Directions: 

Grease a pudding dish, cover bottom of dish with stale bread crumbs, 
add a layer of sliced, peeled apples, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon; 
then add another layer of crumbs, then apples, etc., until dish is full ; 
pour enough milk through the pudding to moisten it (about i cup) 
before putting on top layer of crumbs. Place 4 or 5 dots of butter 
substitute on top, cover pudding with a plate; bake until apples are 
tender, then remove plate and brown crumbs. If apples are juicy, milk 
may be omitted, as the juice from the fruit will be sufficient. In this 
case the pudding should be served with cold milk in order to keep the 
food value the same. Molasses may be used instead of sugar to 
sweeten and moisten the pudding, and gives an especially nice flavor. 



78 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 39 CHOCOLATE PUDDING Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weicht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grama Grams Grama riea Cents 

Cornstarch 4 T. 38 — — 34 139 iO 

Milk 3i C. 915 30 Zl 46 656 9.30 

Sugar f C. 125 — — 125 513 1.60 

Cocoa 2i T. 18 4 5 7 92 1.48 

Salt it. 

Vanilla i_t LOO 

Total (cooked) 10 h. T. 775 34 42 212 1400 13.88 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 155 7 8 42 277 

Calories per serving 29 74 172 275 

Directions: 

Heat 3 cups of milk in the double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar, cocoa, and 
salt; rub to a smooth paste with the rest of the cold milk; then add to 
hot milk, stirring constantly to prevent lumping. Cook over hot water 
for 20 minutes ; add vanilla, and pour into a cold, wet bowl. 
This pudding is not quite so stiff as the cornstarch pudding, but may be 
made firmer by Hsing more cornstarch. 



No. 40 CHOCOLATE FARINA PUDDING Serves 5 

" '' Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 2 C 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Sugar 1 C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Cocoa 2 T. 14 3 4 5 70 1.20 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 — 156 4.00 

Cooked farina 1 C. 250 5 1 34 169 .50 

Vanilla \jt 1.00 

Total (cooked) 15 h. T. 708 37 36 163 1155 13.00 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 141 7 7 33 2^ 

Calories per serving. ... 29 65 135 229 

Directions: 

Put milk in double boiler, and when hot, add sugar and cocoa mixed with 
a little water; stir well, and gradually add cold, left-over farina, and 
lastly beaten eggs and vanilla. Turn into baking dish and brown in oven. 
To vary the dish, the whites of the eggs may be left out and the pudding 
baked without them. They should be beaten stiff with 2 T. of sugar, and 
spread over the pudding 5 or 10 minutes before it is done, and then the 
pudding put on the top grate of the oven till lightly browned. Bread 
pudding, tapioca, and various other baked puddings containing eggs may 
be prepared in this fashion. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



79 



No. 41 COTTAGE PUDDING 



Serves 7 



Directions: 

Make plain cake according to Recipe No. 7; serve hot with hot lemon 
sauce (Recipe No. 88). This makes an excellent pudding. A portion 
equals 2 pieces of cake and 4 T. of sauce. 



No. 42 CORNSTARCH PUDDING Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Cornstarch 4 T. 38 — — 34 139 .50 

Sugar 6 T. 62 — — 62 254 .70 

Milk 2i C. 610 20 24 31 432 5.10 

Vanilla _i_t LOO 

Total (cooked) 550 20 24 127 825 7.30 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 110 4 5 25 M6 

Calories per serving. ... 16 47 103 166 

Directions: 

Scald milk; mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt (it.) with a little cold 
water, and add to scalded milk. Cook over hot water 20 minutes, stirring 
most of the time. Add vanilla, and pour into a cold, wet bowl or tin. 
When cold, turn out and serve. 

Be sure to cook long enough after adding the cornstarch, even though the 
mixture becomes thick quickly. This slow cooking improves the flavor 
and does away with the starchy taste so often noticed in comsta«ch 
desserts. 



No. 43 CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.0 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 — 155 4.0 

Tapioca (pearl) 6 T. 84 * — 74 303 1.1 

Sugar 6 T. 60 — — 60 246 .7 

Salt J t. 

Vanilla -. j_t 1.0 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 954 45 50 183 1399 16.8 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 159 8 8 30 28^ 

Calories per serving 33 74 123 230 

Directions: 

Put tapioca, salt, and milk in double boiler and cook until the tapioca is 
transparent, stirring occasionally. Mix together egg yolks and sugar. Re- 
move tapioca from fire; let cool a little, and add eggs and flavoring. 
Turn into a greased pudding dish ; make a meringue of the whites of the 
eggs by beating them stiff; spread over pudding, and bake till pudding is 
browned. Or yolks and whites of eggs may be added together, and pud- 
ding baked till brown without the meringue. 



8o FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 44 CUSTARD Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 3 C. 732 24 29 37 520 7.5 

Eggs 3 150 20 16 — 231 6.0 

Sugar IC 75 — — 75 308 .8 

Salt it. 

Nutmeg Grating 

Total (cooked) 12 h.T. 804 44 45 112 1059 14.3 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 134 7 8 19 2£ 

Calories per serving. ... 29 74 78 181 

Directions: 

Beat eggs slightly; add sugar, milk, and salt; pour into a greased pud- 
ding dish or cups ; grate nutmeg over the top ; set pudding dish in a pan 
of hot water, and bake slowly until pudding is firm. Try with a knife 
blade ; if it comes out clean, the custard is done. During the baking, care 
must be taken that water surrounding pudding does not boil. Serve cold. 



No. 45 STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Suet i C 110 5 90 — 858 2.50 

Raisins i C. 80 2 3 61 286 2.00 

Flour 21 C. 313 34 3 234 1127 3.40 

Soda 1 t. 

Salt H t 

Molasses 1 C. 320 8 — 222 943 2.80 

Cinnamon it. ) 

Ground clove it. ? .10 

Nutmeg Grating ) 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.50 

Total (cooked) 12 slices 960 57 106 529 3389 13.30 

1 Serving 2 slices 160 10 18 88 2.21 

Calories per serving.... 41 167 361 569 

Directions: 

Take skin off suet ; wipe, chop, and sprinkle with some of the flour. Then 
sift soda and other dry ingredients into the sifted flour ; rub in the suet ; 
add raisins, molasses, and milk. Mix and beat well. Pour the mixture into 
a well-greased lard pail or into baking powder tins, not filling more than 
two-thirds full. Grease and put on the cover; set pail on a piece of iron 
or tin in a kettle containing enough boiling water to come halfway to the 
top. Cover the kettle and steam pudding for at least 2 hours. The water 
must not stop boiling, and more boiling water must be added from the 
tea kettle as it boils away. Serve hot with sauce. The raisins may be 
omitted. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



8i 



No. 46 FRUIT SHORTCAKE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grama ries Centa 

Baking powder biscuit 

(Recipe No. 4) 6 biscuits 360 31 40 180 1237 6.5 

Sugar 1 C. 100 — — 100 410 1.3 

Oleo 3 T. 36 ♦ 31 — 288 1.9 

Strawberries 1 box 450 4 3 32 176 10.0 

Total 6 pieces 946 35 74 M2 2111 19.7 

1 Serving 1 piece 158 6 12 52 3.3 

Calories per serving. ... 25 112 213 350 

With orange and banana instead of berries : 

Oranges 2 400 3 1 46 210 5.0 

Bananas 2 200 3 1 44 202 2.5 

Total 6 pieces 1096 37 73 370 2347 17.2 

1 Senring 1 piece 183 6 12 62 2.9 

Calories per serving 25 112 254 391 

Directions: 

Make baking powder biscuit dough (Recipe No. 4) ; toss on a floured 
board, pat out t of an inch thick, put in a floured tin plate or shallow pan, 
and bake in a quick oven. When done, split open, spread with oleo, and 
cover with berries or other fruit which has been slightly crushed and 
sweetened to taste. Put the two halves together and spread more of the 
sweetened fruit on top. Serve hot. Any fresh or canned fruit may be 
used, or dried peaches or apricots, stewed. Sliced oranges and bananas 
are also very nice. 



No. 47 BAKED INDIAN PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grains Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk (scalded) 4 C 976 32 39 49 695 10.00 

Corn meal i C. 40 4 1 30 149 .30 

Molasses i C. 160 4 — 111 472 1.40 

Salt it. 

Ginger }_t 

Total (cooked) 12h.T. 850 40 40 190 1316 11.70 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 142 7 7 32 1^ 

Calories per serving. ... 29 63 131 225 

Directions: 

Pour scalded milk slowly on the corn meal ; cook in the double boiler 
20 minutes ; add molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into a greased pudding 
dish and bake 2 hours in a slow oven. Serve plain with milk or lemon 
sauce. 



82 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 48 JUNKET Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weisht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 2i C 610 20 24 31 432 5.10 

Sugar 2 T. 20 — — 20 82 ^ 

Junket tablet | ^ 

Total (cooked) 2i C. 630 20 24 51 514 5.86 

1 Serving i C. 126 4 5 10 U7 

Calories per serving 16 47 41 104 

Directions: 

Heat milk till lukewarm ; add sugar and tablet, which has first been thor- 
oughly dissolved in a teaspoonful of water. Mix well; flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla or a grating of nutmeg; pour into cups, cover, and let 
stand in warm place till the mixture jellies. Keep in a cold place till ready 
to serve. 



No. 49 PRUNE JELLY Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grama Grams ries Cents 

Prunes f C 150 3 — 93 394 3.30 

Gelatine 2 T. 16 15 — — 62 6.00 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.50 

Lemon juice i C. 60 — — 6 25 2.50 

Water 

Total (cooked) 10 h. T. 1000 18 — 299 1301 14.30 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 200 4 — 60 2^ 

Calories per serving. ... 16 — 246 262 

Directions: 

Wash prunes and soak overnight in cold water. Boil in same water till 
tender; stone and cut in quarters, saving water. Take 1 package of 
Knox's gelatine (granulated), and soak in 1 cupful of water 15 minutes. 
Add enough boiling water to prune water to make 2 cups, and pour over 
soaked gelatine ; then add sugar and juice of about 2 lemons. Strain and 
add cut prunes. Pour mixture into wet mold or crockery dish to set. Stir 
once or twice while cooling to prevent fruit from settling at the bottom of 
the dish. Serve cold. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



83 



No. 50 PRUNE LOAF Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
WeiRht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grama Grams Grams Grams rics Cents 

Prunes U C. 225 4 — 140 590 5.00 

Sugar * C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Baking powder biscuit 

(Recipe No. 4) 6 biscuits 360 31 40 180 1237 6.50 

Total (cooked) 900 35 40 420 2237 12.80 

1 Serving * 150 6 7 70 2^ 

Calories per serving 25 65 287 Zll 

Directions: 

Wash, soak, and cook prunes in a little water till tender enough to remove 
stones. Cut prunes in quarter or mash, and add sugar. Make baking 
powder biscuit dough (see Recipe No. 4) ; roll out thin, and over this 
spread the mashed and sweetened prunes. Roll over like a jelly roll, turn- 
ing up the ends to prevent filling from running out. Place in greased 
bread tin, and baste with a little water and sugar. Bake until crust is 
brown. Left-over stewed prunes may be used, about H cups. Raspberry 
jam, strawberry preserve, or any other cooked fruit may be used. 



No. 51 RICE PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weisrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.00 

Rice J C. 70 6 * 55 250 1.40 

Sugar i C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Salt jj. 

Total (cooked) ....!.. 12 h. T. 800 38 39 204 1355 12.70 
1 Serving 2 h.T. 133 6 7 34 227 2.11 

Calories per serving. ... 25 65 139 229 

Directions: 

Wash rice and put it in a greased pudding dish with sugar, salt, and milk. 
Mix well, and let stand for i hour or more; then bake in a very slow 
oven for about 3 hours, stirring often at first. The pudding may be 
flavored with a grating of nutmeg if liked, and served either hot or cold. 
Less sugar may be used. If the oven is too hot, the rice will be heavy and 
uncooked ; see that the heat is only moderate and the cooking slow. 



86 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 57 SALMON LOAF Serves 6 

Carbo- CoIT 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grama Grama riea Cents 

Salmon 3 C. 400 87 48 — 803 14.00 

Rice (boiled) 3 C. 600 17 1 146 678 3.00 

White sauce (Recipe No. 

89) 2 C. 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1440 124 110 191 2315 24.86 

1 Serving 1 C. 240 21 18 32 — 4.14 

Calories per serving 86 167 131 384 

Directions: 

Line a greased dish with boiled rice about i inch thick. Pick over a can 
of salmon, place in center of dish, cover with rice, and heat thoroughly 
in the oven. Turn onto a platter and serve with thick white sauce around 
it. If boiled rice is not on hand, boil about f cup. 



No. 58 APPLE SAUCE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiflrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams rics Cents 

Apples 6 600 2 3 85 385 6.6 

Sugar 7 T. 70 — — 70 287 .7 

Water 

Total (cooked) 15 h. T. 625 2 3 155 672 7.3 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 125 ♦ 1 31 — 1.5 

Calories per serving. ... — 9 127 136 

Directions: 

Pare, quarter, and core tart, juicy apples; cover with water and cook 
until apples are tender, having a hot fire so that apples may cook rapidly. 
Mash smooth with a wooden spoon; sweeten to taste and cook enough 
longer to dissolve the sugar. 



No. 59 APPLE SAUCE, DRIED APPLES Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples U C. 150 2 3 99 442 4.3 

Sugar i C. 50 — — 50 205 .6 

Water 

Total (cooked) 20 h. T. 887 2 3 149 647 4.9 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 177 ♦ 1 30 — 1.0 

Calories per serving.... ♦ 9 123 132 

Directions: 

Wash apples, and soak overnight, or for 6 or 8 hours. Cover with water, 
add sugar, and cook till soft. 

Unless fresh apples sell for 2 cents a pound or less, it is cheaper to use 
dried apples for sauce or pudding. A larger portion must be served, 
however, to obtain the same food value as in fresh apples. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 87 



No. 60 BAKED APPLES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples (large) 6 900 3 3 97 438 6.60 

Sugar 6 T. 60 — — 60 246 .70 

Water 6JI\ 

Total (cooked) 6 810 3 3 157 684 7.30 

1 Serving 1 135 1 1 26 — 1.21 

Calories per serving. ... 4 9 107 120 

Directions: 

Wash and core about 2 pounds of tart, large apples. Place them in a bak- 
ing dish with a tablespoonful of sugar in center of each apple. Put 
1 tablespoonful of water for each apple in the bottom of the pan. Bake 
in a hot oven till apples are soft, basting often with the syrup in the pan. 
Serve either hot or cold. For variety, the centers may be filled with a 
few chopped raisins and nuts or a spoonful of marmalade. This will raise 
the value and increase the cost. 



No. 61 APRICOT SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
WeiRht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apricots 2i C. 340 16 3 213 967 10.50 

Sugar I_C 75 — -- 75 308 .80 

Total (cooked) 18 h. T. 900 16 3 288 1275 12.30 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 150 3 1 48 — 2.05 

Calories per serving. ... 12 9 197 218 

Directions: 

Wash and soak overnight about f pound of fruit, and cook next morn- 
ing in the same water. If there is not enough to cover fruit, add more. 
When fruit is soft, remove it from saucepan, and add sugar to liquid. 
Cook till thick and pour over fruit. This makes a nice, syrup-like juice. 
Dried peaches may be prepared in the same way. The analysis is not 
given, because it could not be obtained. 



No. 62 BAKED B ANAN A Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiurht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Bananas 5 500 7 3 110 508 6.25 

Sugar SJ[\ 50 — ~ 50 205 .65 

Total (cooked) 5 500 7 3 160 713 6.90 

1 Serving 1 100 1 1 32 — 1.38 

Calories per serving 4 9 131 144 

Directions: 

Peel the bananas, cut lengthwise into halves, place in baking pan, sprinkle 

with sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about 15 minutes. 
Serve hot. A little lemon juice improves the flavor. 



88 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 63 DATE AND PRUNE SAUCE Serves 9 

Carbo* Cost 
Weijcht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grama ries Cents 

Dates 21 C 450 9 11 317 1439 10.00 

Prunes 2i C. 450 8 — 280 1181 10.00 

Total (cooked) 4 C. 1100 17 11 597 2620 20.00 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 123 2 ^ 66 — 2.22 

Calories per serving 8 9 271 288 

Directions: 

Soak prunes overnight or for a couple of hours; cook in same water; 
remove stones and add dates, cleaned and stoned. Cook mixture until 
thick, and add a little lemon juice for flavoring if desired. 
Use 1 pound each of dates and prunes, or cook a larger amount and put 
up in jars. 



No. 64 PRUNE SAUCE Serves 10 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Prunes..... 2i C. 450 8 — 280 1181 10.00 

Sugar 6J\ 60 — — 60 246 .70 

Total (cooked) 50 prunes 1250 8—340 1427 10.70 

1 Serving 5 prunes 

and syrup 125 1 — 34 — 1.07 

Calories per serving 4 — 139 143 

Directions: 

Wash prunes and soak overnight in cold water. In the morning cook 
slowly m same water (if there is not enough to cover fruit, add more) 
until prunes are tender. Add sugar to taste. Some people do not add 
sugar, as they consider the prunes sweet enough. If sugar is added, take 
out prunes and boil juice and sugar till it is like a thin syrup; then tour 
it over the fruit. A little lemon may be added for flavoring. 



No. 65 RHUBARB SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rhubarb 3 C. 400 2 3 14 94 3.00 

Sugar 1 C 200 — — 200 820 2.50 

Total (cooked) 12 h.T. 540 2 3 214 914 5.50 

1 Serving 2 h.T. 90 ♦ i 36 — .91 

Calories per serving — 9 148 157 

Directions: 

Wash and cut in pieces about 1 inch long a pound of rhubarb. Put it in 
a stewpan with sugar and a very little water (i cup). Cook about 1 hour 
or until fruit is tender. There is so much water in the rhubarb that very 
little need be used in cooking. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 89 



No. 66 CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grama Grams ries Cents 

Corned beef (brisket).... 2i)ounds 900 165 223 — 2750 40.00 
Cabbage 11 pounds 850 13 3 49 282 10.00 

Total (cooked) 1000 178 226 49 3032 50.00 

1 Serving 2 si. meat & 

3h.T.cab. 200 36 45 10 — 10.00 

Calories per serving. . . . 148 419 41 608 

Directions: 

For 5 people buy about 2 pounds of brisket, which whert cooked only 
equals about U pounds, due to loss of weight in cooking. Cover meat 
with boiling water and cook slowly until tender, about 3 hours. Take out 
the meat and boil the cabbage in the liquor in which the meat was cooked. 
Serve meat and cabbage together. 

Flank can be used instead of brisket, which would reduce the cost to 
5 cents per person. This would also furnish less protein per person 
(14 grams instead of 18), but this deficiency could be made up in some 
other way. 



No. 67 BRAISED BEEF Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat H pounds 675 132 142 — 1862 24.00 

Flour 3 T. 21 2 ♦ 16 74 .23 

Onion 1 90 1 ♦ 9 41 .39 

Water 

Total (cooked) 6 slices 600 135 142 25 1977 24.62 

1 Serving 1 slice 100 23 24 4 — 4.10 

Calories per serving 94 223 16 333 

Directions: 

Wipe a thin slice of steak clean with a damp cloth, brush over with flour, 
and cut in pieces. Season with salt and pepper, place in a baking dish with 
a little water and a sliced onion; cover and bake till tender. Vegetables 
may be added and cooked with the meat. 



go FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 68 FLANK STEAK, STUFFED AND BAKED WITH 

VEGETABLES Serves 6 

' Carbo- Cost 

Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat U pounds 600 118 127 — 1665 19.00 

Onions U 180 3 1 18 95 ,11 

Turnips 3 C. 320 4 1 26 132 2.50 

Carrots U C. 220 2 1 20 100 1.60 

Bread crumbs H C. 120 14 2 IZ 375 2.40 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 1900 141 132 137 2367 26.27 

1 Serving 1 si. meat & 

IC.veg. 317 24 22 23 — 4.38 

- M II M Ml I I I 

Calories per serving 98 205 94 397 

Directions: 

Wipe the steak clean with a damp cloth; lay the meat flat on a board; 
moisten bread crumbs with stock or hot water, add about 1 t. salt 
and \ t. pepper, onion chopped fine, and chopped parsley if you have 
it. Spread this mixture evenly on the meat; then roll with the grain so 
that when sliced it will be cut across the grain. Tie with twine, turn- 
ing in the ends of the meat. Dice an onion, the carrots and turnips, and 
lay them in the baking pan; then put in the roll of meat and pour in 
enough stock or water to cover the vegetables. Cover the pan and place 
it in a slow oven to cook till meat is tender and vegetables soft. 



No. 69 POT ROAST 








Serves 1 


Material 


Measure 


Weiffht Protein 
Grams Grams 


Carbo- 

Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams 


Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 


1 Serving (cooked) 


, a si. 


150 41 


12 — 


280 10.00 



Calories per serving.... 168 112 — 280 

Directions: 

For 6 people buy 3 pounds of meat to allow for loss of weight in cook- 
ing, or, if possible, a heavier piece, which will cook better and allow for 
left-over scalloped meat or meat pie. In this case the additional cost may 
be figured on the next meal. Buy the top of the round, as it is clear meat 
and there is no waste. 

Sear the meat on all sides in fat; add water, cover the pot, and cook on 
the back of the stove or in the oven for 3 hours. 
Vegetables may be added for flavor. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



91 



No. 70 ROAST LAMB (forequarter) 



Serves 1 



Material 



Measure 



Weiffht Protein 
Grams Grams 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate 
Grams Gi 



irams 



Calo- 
ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 Serving (cooked) 1 slice with- 
out bone 90 20 27 



— 333 ILOO 



Calories per serving. ... 82 251 — 333 

Directions: 

For 5 people buy about 3 pounds of lamb, as the meat loses weight in 
cooking, and when roasted only weighs about 900 grams. Of this, about 
half is bone and fat, so that each person only gets about 90 grams of 
solid meat. 

Parboil meat first in boiling water for about 1 hour to make it tender. 
Remove from water; drain, place in baking pan, and dredge with salt, 
pepper, and flour. Bake until tender, basting frequently with the water in 
which it was boiled. This usually takes another hour. 



No. 71 HAMBURG STEAK Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weiifht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat 2 C. 450 94 48 — 828 18.00 

Cooked 300 94 48 — 828 

1 Serving 1 cake 50 16 8 138 3.00 

Calories per serving. ... 64 74 138 

Directions: 

Chop round of beef very fine; season with salt, pepper, and a little 
chopped onion if desired, and shape into round, flat cakes about 3 inches in 
diameter. Have frying pan very hot; rub it over with a piece of fat; 
put in the cakes and let them cook about 5 minutes, turning them at first 
several times, and then letting them brown on each side. Serve with 
brown gravy (see Recipe No. 83). Two cups of bread may be added, 
and will give twice as many cakes as the plain meat. 



No. 72 MEAT BALLS WITH RICE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weisrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat 3 C. 675 141 72 — 1248 27.00 

Boiledrice 3 C. 600 12 * 119 537 3.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 10 balls 1050 153 72 119 1785 30.00 

1 Serving 2 balls 210 31 14 24 6.00 

Calories per serving. . . . 127 130 98 355 

Directions: 

Mix chopped meat with equal part of boiled rice (Recipe No. 29). Shape 
into cakes and fry as for hamburg steak (see Recipe No. 71), first sea- 
soning with salt and pepper. If the cakes do not stick together, add an 
egg. This increases the cost 2 cents and raises the food value somewhat, 
especially the protein. 



92 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 73 MEAT LOAF Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Ccnta 

Beef 2 C. 450 94 48 — 832 18.00 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Bread crumbs i C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5 slices 520 106 54 24 1035 20.75 

1 Serving 1 slice 104 21 11 5 4.15 

Calories per serving 86 102 21 209 

Directions: 

Have beef from round or shoulder finely chopped, and mix it with bread 
crumbs, egg slightly beaten, salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion or 
onion juice if liked. Shape into a roll or loaf, put into a baking pan, and 
bake 30 minutes, basting frequently with brown gravy (Recipe No. 83) or 
tomato sauce (Recipe No. 89). Serve with remainder of gravy or sauce. 



No. 74 MEAT PIE, BAKING POWDER CRUST Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beef 2 pounds 900 188 95 — 1654 36.00 

Flour 4 T. 28 3 * 21 98 .31 

Onion 1 120 2 ♦ 12 57 .55 

Salt and pepper To season 

Water (boiling) ... . . 2 C. 

Baking powder biscuit 
(Recipe No. 4) 461 31 40 180 1237 6.50 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 1200 224 135 213 3046 43.36 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 200 37 23 36 723 

Calories per serving 152 214 148 514 

Directions: 

Wipe 2 pounds bottom of the round ; cut it in 1-inch pieces, and ar- 
range in layers in a pudding dish, sprinkling each layer with some of 
the flour mixed with salt and pepper. Add the boiling water, cover closely 
with an old plate, and cook slowly in the oven for 3 hours, or until 
meat is tender, but not cooked to pieces. If water boils away, add more. 
Remove from oven and cover with baking powder biscuit dough (see 
Recipe No. 4). Roll out dough, cut a hole in the center, and put crust 
loosely over the top of the meat, having the edge fit closely to the inside 
of the dish. Put dish back in oven, and bake till crust is brown. 
Any remnants of stew or cold meat may be prepared in the same way. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 93 



No. 75 MEAT PIE WITH POTATO CRUST Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meawarfe Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Chopped meat 2 C. 450 94 48 — 832 18.00 

Boiled potatoes (mashed) 5 C. 800 20 1 167 776 3.33 

Butter substitute or drip- 
pings 2T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Hot milk f C. 162 5 6 8 109 1.66 

Brown gravy (Recipe No. 

82) i C. — 1 10 S 118 .71 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 1350 120 85 180 2021 24.60 

1 Senring 4 h.T. 225 20 14 30 4.10 

Calories per serving.... 82 130 123 335 

Directions: 

Mix cold chopped meat, any kind that is left over, or fresh chopped 
round if desired, with left-over brown gravy or i of Recipe No. 83, and 
season with salt and pepper. Take 2 cups of mashed boiled potatoes 
(left-over or freshly prepared), and add hot milk, drippings or butter 
substitute, and seasoning, and beat well. Line greased pudding dish with 
some of the potatoes ; in the center place the chopped meat ; cover with 
the rest of the potatoes, and bake in the oven about 20 minutes, or until 
potato is golden brown. Serve hot. 



No. 76 SCALLOPED MEAT, MACARONI AND TOMATO 

Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measare Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Choppedmeat 2 C. 450 94 48 — 832 18.00 

Cooked macaroni (Recipe 

No. 26) 6 C. 600 20 1 111 546 3.00 

Tomatoes lean 400 5 1 16 95 4.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 18 h.T. 1140 119 50 127 1473 25.00 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 190 20 8 21 4.10 

Calories per serving.... 82 74 86 242 

Directions: 

Brown an onion, finely chopped, in a small amount of fat in a frying pan, 
and sear the chopped meat m the same, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Line a baking dish with boiled macaroni (see Recipe No. 26), and place 
meat in center. Pour over all i can of tomatoes or 2 cups of stewed ones. 
Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. Left-over cooked meat may be used 
in place of fresh meat. 



94 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



Na 77 MEAT STEW Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meaanre Grams Grama Grama Grams rie« Cents 

Carrots 2 C. 360 4 1 33 16 2.S0 

Potatoes 41 C. 540 12 1 99 464 2^ 

Lamb (or beef) 2i pounds 1086 162 228 — 2785 35.00 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 ♦ 10 49 .16 

Water 6 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5 C 1175 180 230 142 3459 40.16 

1 Serving 1 C. 235 36 46 28 aOO 

Calories per serving 148 428 115 691 

Directions: 

Have meat cut up (not too small) ; wash it and put it in kettle of boiling 
water; cook slowly over low fire for a couple of hours. Add seasoning 
and potatoes and carrots, which have been scraped or pared and cut in 
cubes. Cook another half hour or until vegetables are soft. Remove meat 
and add flour thickened with a little cold water to make gravy; boil up 
and pour on platter; add more water to gravy if enough is not in the 
kettle, and a little tomato if desired. Turnips and onions may also be 
added with the carrots and potatoes, or dumplings made like baking pow- 
der biscuits. The dough should be made softer by increasing the liquid 
to a scant cupful. (Recipe No. 4.) Drop by the spoonful into the boiling 
stew, and keep closely covered while cooking 12 minutes. 



No. 78 SMOKED SHOULDER Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grama riea Cents 

Meat 21 pounds 1125 179 366 — 4005 53.00 

Cooked 675 179 366 — 4005 

1 Serving 1 si. with- 

outbone 135 36 73 10.60 

Calories per serving. . . . 148 679 827 

Directions: 

For 5 people buy about 3i pounds of shoulder, as this is about as small a 
shoulder as can be obtained. The loss in cooking and waste due to bone, 
fat, etc., leaves only about H pounds edible portion. Cover with cold 
water, heat to boiling point ; then cook slowly until tender, about 3 hours. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



95 



No. 79 LETTUCE SALAD 






Serves 5 


Material Measure 


Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 


Carbo- 

Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams 


Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 


Lettuce 1 head 


250 3 
50 1 


1 7 
* 1 


50 5.00 


1 Serving 4 leaves 


1.00 



Calories per serving. ... 4 48 

Directions: 

Remove the green, tough leaves from a head of lettuce. Break off the 
tender leaves one by one, and rinse thoroughly in cold water. Shake off 
the water and lay the leaves on a piece of cheesecloth, and put the lettuce, 
wrapped lightly in this cloth, on ice. At serving time, pour over a French 
or boiled salad dressing, tossing the leaves lightly, so that all are coated 
with the dressing. 



No. 80 POTATO SALAD 








Serves 5 


Material Measure 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Carbo- 

Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams 


Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 


Boiled Dotatoes 5 C. 


750 
150 


19 
4 


1 157 
* 31 


731 5.00 


1 Serving 1 C. 


1.00 



Calories per serving. . . . 



16 



127 143 



Directions: 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in i-inch cubes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
add a very little onion juice, and mix with a little chopped parsley. 
Moisten with French salad dressing (Recipe No. 120), and serve plain or 
on lettuce leaves. If desired, cut up a few cold boiled beets that have 
stood in vinegar for a short time, and use as a garnish. 



No. 81 VEGETABLE SALAD Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Boiled carrots 1 C. 200 1 ♦ 9 41 1.60 

Boiled beets U C. 260 6 * 19 103 2.50 

Boiled potatoes U C. 225 6 * 47 217 1.50 

Canned peas 1 C. 160 6 3 16 118 4.30 

Celery 1 C. 100 1 * 3 16 1.30 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total 6 C. 945 20 3 94 495 11.20 

1 Serving 1 C. 157 3 1 16 1^ 

Calories per serving. ... 12 9 66 87 

Directions: 

Cut up cold, cooked vegetables — carrots, beets, potatoes, peas, and celery, 
or carrots, beets, lima beans, and celery, or whatever combination is on 
hand — and serve on lettuce leaves with boiled or French dressing. If 
the vegetables are seasoned the first thing in the morning, and mixed with 
a small quantity of French dressing, covered, and allowed to stand in a 
cold place, the salad will taste much better. Just before serving, put vege- 
tables on lettuce leaves, and add more French or boiled dressing. 



96 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 82 DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE Serves S 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meature Grams Grams Grams Grams ries CenU 

Oleo or drippings 2 T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 1.27 

Flour 2T. 14 2 — 10 49 .16 

Water 1 C 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 1 C. 224 2 20 10 235 1.43 

1 Serving i C 28 ♦ 3 1 J8 

Calories per serving 28 4 32 

Directions: 

Melt oleo or fat, add flour, salt, and pepper, stir till smooth, remove from 
fire; when cool, add cold water; mix well, put back over fire, and stir 
constantly till the sauce thickens and boils. A chopped, hard-boiled egg 
may be added before serving, or chopped parsley or a few capers if liked. 



No. 83 BROWN GRAVY Serves 9 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 3 T. 21 2 — 16 74 .23 

Oleo or drippings 3 T. 36 * 31 — 288 1.91 

Water 2i C. 

Total (cooked) 21 C. 2 31 16 362 2.14 

1 Serving i_C ♦ 3 2 24 

Calories per serving. ... 28 8 36 

Directions: 

Melt oleo or fat in spider; add flour, stirring constantly, and cook till 
brown. Then add water slowly; continue to stir till gravy is thick. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper and add onion juice, tomatoes, or ketchup if 
desired. 
For H cups use 2 T. each oleo and flour and li cups of water. Serves 6. 



No. 84 BROWN SUGAR SYRUP Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Brown sugar 2 C. 300 — — 285 1170 3.32 

Water IjC^ _^ 

Total (cooked) 10 T. 180 285 1170 

1 Serving 2 T. 36 57 234 .70 

Calories per serving 234 234 

Directions: 

Put sugar and water in saucepan on stove, and stir while the sugar dis- 
solves. Boil until it thickens (about 5 minutes). Do not stir while it is 
cooking. Cool before serving. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



97 



No. 85 CARAMEL SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams riea Centa 

Supar i C ISO — — ISO 61S 2.00 

Boiling water f C. 

Total (cooked) 12 T. 240 ISO 615 2.00 

1 Serving 2J\ 40 25 .33 

Calories per serving. . . . 103 103 

Directions: 

Put granulated sugar in frying pan; stir constantly over hot part of the 
range until it has melted to a syrup of light brown color ; add water 
slowly; simmer 10 minutes. Cool before serving. 



No. 86 CHEESE SAUCE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oleo iT. 6 * 5 — 47 J2 

Flour i T. 4 ♦ ♦ 3 28 .05 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.50 

Cheese IT. 10 3 4 — SO .48 

Total (cooked) i C. 150 11 19 IS 300 3.35 

1 Serving U T. 30 2 4 3 .£ 

Calories per serving. ... 8 37 12 57 

Directions: 

Melt oleo; add flour and grated cheese. When well mixed, add milk. 
Heat, stirring constantly until it comes to the boiling point; then serve 
on croquettes. If the flavor of cheese is liked, more may be added. 



No. 87 HARD SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oleo 3 T. 36 * 31 — 288 1.90 

Powdered sugar ^ C. 80 — — 80 328 1.60 

Vanilla or it. 1.00 

Nutmeg to flavor ______^____ 

Total 6 h.t. 116 * 31 80 616 4.50 

1 Serving 1 h. t. 19 5 13 75 

Calories per serving. ... 46 53 99 

Directions: 

Cream oleo and gradually work in the sugar. Add flavoring; pack 
smoothly in a small dish ; cover and set in a cold place till ready to use. 
i cup mashed strawberries may be beaten into the sauce in place of the 
vanilla, and granulated sugar may be used in place of the powdered ; use 
about i of a cup. 



98 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 88 LEMON SAUCE Serves 10 

____ Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meaaure Grams Grama Grama Grams ries Cents 

Sugar i C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Cornstarch IT. 9 — — 8 33 .20 

Lemon juice IT. 15 — — 1 4 .60 

Oleo i T. 6 ♦ 5 — 47 .30 

Water 1_C 

Total (cooked) U C. 325 ♦ 5 109 494 2.40 

1 Serving 2J\ 32 ♦ 1 11 24 

Calories per serving 9 45 54 

Directions: 

Boil sugar and water together with lemon rind for 2 or 3 minutes. Take 
out and throw away the lemon rind ; add cornstarch that has been mixed 
till smooth with a little cold water, and cook for 5 minutes or till very 
clear, stirring all the time. Add the juice of half a lemon and the oleo, 
and when oleo has melted, serve. Orange or other fruit juice may be 
used in place of the lemon juice, and then less sugar is required. 



No. 89 TOMATO SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams' ries Cents 

Tomatoes (canned) i can 400 5 1 16 95 4.00 

Oleo or drippings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 * 10 49 .16 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 12T.(f C.) 240 7 21 26 330 5.43 

1 Serving 2JI\ 40 1 4 4 ^ 

Calories per serving 4 37 16 57 

Directions: 

Melt drippings, oleo, or other shortening in a saucepan, and cook in it a 
little chopped onion till onion is a golden brown ; then stir in flour mixed 
with salt and pepper; stir till smooth, remove from fire, and when cool, 
add cold strained tomato. Put back over the fire and stir till the mix- 
ture thickens and boils. 



\ 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



99 



No. 90 WHITE SAUCE Serves 12 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grains Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 4 T. 28 3 ♦ 21 98 .31 

Oleo 4 T. 48 * 41 — 381 2.55 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Total (cooked) 2 C. 480 19 61 45 829 7.86 

1 Serving 2JI\ 40 2 5 4 ,6S 

Calories per serving 8 47 16 71 

Directions: 

Melt oleo, drippings, or crisco, being careful not to brown; add flour 
slowly, and when thoroughly mixed, add milk, stirring constantly till 
thick. Or milk may be scalded, a small amount first being mixed with 
the flour, the mixture slowly added to the milk, and the whole stirred 
till smooth and thick. The oleo is added last, and salt and pepper to taste. 
More milk makes a thinner sauce, and more flour a thicker one. 
Drippings or crisco may be used in place of oleo, and will lessen the cost. 



No. 91 CORN CHOWDER Serves 6 

Carbo* Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Gr»ms Grams ries Cents 

Corn (1 can) 21 C. 580 16 7 110 582 12.00 

Milk (hot) 4 C. 976 32 39 48 691 10.00 

Potatoes 2f C. 400 9 1 74 350 1.80 

Onion (chopped) 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

Water (boiling) 2 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 8 C. 2000 57 57 232 1716 24.43 

1 Serving U C. 333 10 10 39 4.07 

Calories per serving 41 93 160 294 

Directions: 

Melt oleo, fat, or pork scraps in frying pan and add chopped onion, and 
cook for 5 minutes; then add 2 cups boiling water and potatoes pared 
and cut in small pieces. Cook till potatoes are soft. Add com, seasoning, 
and hot milk, and cook till milk comes to the boiling point. 



?] 



100 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 92 FISH CHOWDER Serves 5 

Carbo- ^ Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meawire Grams Grams Grams Grams rie< Cents 

Haddock (or cod) 2 pounds 900 155 3—663 12.00 

Potatoes 4 450 10 — 83 381 2.00 

Onion 1 20 — — 2 8 .10 

Milk (scalded) 2 C 488 16 20 24 358 5.00 

Oleo 2 T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 1.30 

Crackers 6 60 7 5 43 252 .90 

Salt and pepper To season 

Water 6_C 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1420 188 48 152 1848 21.30 

1 Serving 1 C 284 38 10 30 4.26 

Calories per serving. ... 156 93 123 372 

Directions: 

Have skin, head, and bones removed from fish at market, and take them 
home with the fish. Cut the fish in 1-inch pieces; put head, skin, and 
bones in kettle with cold water; allow them to come slowly to the boil- 
ing point, and simmer i hour. Strain this water and return it to the 
kettle, throwing away the head, bones, and skin, but picking off and add- 
ing to the water any fish that may have stuck to the bone. Fry the onion, 
cut in small pieces, till brown in fat or pork or oleo, and strain fat into 
kettle, adding fish and potatoes, pared and cut in cubes or slices. Or 
onion may be added with the fat without straining. Cook until potatoes 
are soft. Do not break the fish by stirring. Add hot milk and seasoning. 
Put the crackers in a soup dish, and soften them with a little cold milk 
before pouring the hot chowder over them. Serve at once. 



No. 93 CEREAL OR FARINA SOUP Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Ce nts 

Milk 4C 976 32 39 49 695 10.00 

Water 4 C. 

Farina or cream of wheat 

(raw) 1 C. 180 20 3 137 672 1.98 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 ♦ 156 4.00 

Grated cheese i C SO 14 18 ♦ 225 2.40 

Salt 2 t _^ 

Total (cooked) S C. 2000 79 71 186 1748 18.38 

1 Serving U C. 333 13 12 31 3.06 

Calories per serving.... 53 112 127 292 

Directions: 

Beat eggs slightly and add about 1 cup of milk. Put the rest of the milk 
and the water into a saucepan, and bring it to a boil. Add the salt and 
stir in the farina slowly. Cook 5 minutes and add the grated cheese 
slowly, stirring constantly. Then add beaten eggs and milk. If too thick, 
add more milk or water. 

Instead of 2 pints of milk and 2 of water, 3 pints of milk and 1 pint of 
water may be used. This raises the food value and increases the cost. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIW>S loi 






rna^A^ 



No. 94 LENTIL SOUP ^^/^S&ms^ 

Carbo- 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- Cj/ip ' 0/%. ^^Omtj 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries ^^^^ 4 '/>* 'fj^J 

Lentils 2 C. 400 103 4 237 1431 12.80'^flu^ ^P 

Melted fat 2 T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 .90 ^^m 

Flour 2T. 14 2 ♦ 10 49 .16 ^ 

Onion i 50 1 * 5 25 .22 

Water 16 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 7 C. 1750 106 24 251 1691 14.08 

1 Serving 11 C 291 18 4 42 2.35 

Calories per serving.... 74 37 172 283 

Directions: 

Wash lentils; soak in cold water overnight Next morning drain off 
water, and put lentils in kettle with cold water and sliced onion. Simmer 
slowly for 3 to 4 hours, or until they are tender. Mash through strainer ; 
return to kettle, adding more water if necessary. Cook the flour in the 
melted fat, and add to the soup with salt and pepper to taste. Some peo- 
ple think a little tomato improves the flavor. 



No. 95 OATMEAL AND POTATO SOUP Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Graftns Grams ries Cents 

Potatoes 8 1000 22 1 184 854 4.57 

Rolled oats i C. 40 7 3 26 163 .36 

Onions 2 200 3 1 20 104 .80 

Butter substitute or drip- 
pings 2T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Salt 

Soup greens 1.00 

Water 12 C 

Total (cooked) 10 C. 2250 32 25 230 1307 7.63 

1 Serving 2 C. 450 6 5 46 1.53 

Calories per serving.... 25 47 189 261 

Directions: 

Put 3 quarts of water to boil with salt Cook a little more than ) cup of 
oatmeal in the boiling, salted water 15 to 20 minutes. Add potatoes, peeled 
and cut in cubes, and boil i hour longer, or until potatoes are cooked. 
In the meantime, fry onions in the fat with the chopped soup greens. 
Add this to the potato and oatmeal mixture. Season to taste. If a 
thicker soup is desired, more oatmeal may be used. 



102 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 96 SCOTCH BARLEY SOUP Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meaanre Grama Grams Grama Grams riea Ccnte 

Water 8 C. 

Pcarlbarley iC 100 9 1 78 366 1.10 

Drippings or butter substi- 
tute 2T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 .90 

Carrots f C 150 2 1 14 75 .90 

Turnips i C 50 1 ♦ 4 21 .40 

Onion i SO 1 ♦ 5 25 .22 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1200 13 22 101 673 3.52 

1 Serving 1 C. 240 3 4 20 70 

Calories per serving 12 37 82 131 

Directions: 

Cook barley in frying pan with hot fat for 5 minutes ; then put in sauce- 
pan with boiling water, and cook slowly. Cut up carrots, turnips, and 
onion after peeling them, and fry them in the other tablespoonful of fat ; 
add the vegetables to the barley and water, and let all cook slowly for 
2 hours. Season with salt and pepper. Add more water if soup is too 
thick. Potatoes may also be added. 



No. 97 SPLIT PEA SOUP Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Peas 2C 400 98 4 248 1456 5.30 

Water 16 C. 

Onion i 50 1 * 5 25 .20 

Fat 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 6 C 1470 99 24 253 1667 6.40 

1 Serving 1 C. 245 17 4 42 UQ 

Calories per serving. .. . 70 37 172 279 

Directions: 

Look the peas over ; wash and soak them in cold water overnight. Pour 
off the water and put them in a kettle with 4 quarts of water, and sim- 
mer slowly for 4 or 5 hours, or until thoroughly cooked. Add more water 
during the cooking if necessary. (If not cooked enough, the thick part 
will settle.) Cook the onion in butter or fat, and strain hito the soup; 
add salt and pepper to taste. Salt pork or sausage may be cooked in the 
soup if desired. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 103 



No. 98 BAKED BEANS Serves S 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grama Grams Grama Grama ries Cents 

Beans U C. 300 68 5 179 1059 5.40 

Fat meat, corned beef, or 

pork i pound 150 23 39 — 457 5.00 

Molasses 1 C. 80 2 — 55 234 .70 

Salt and pepper To season 

Mustard i t. 

Onion 1 slice 

Hot water 1 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 925 93 44 234 1750 11.10 

1 Serving 1 C. 185 19 9 47 2.22 

Calories per serving. ... 78 84 193 355 

Directions: 

Soak beans overnight. In the morning, parboil until the skin cracks. 
Drain off water and put beans in the bean pot. Scald and scrape about 
i of a pound of pork, and cut through the rind in 1-inch strips. Bury 
pork in the beans ; mix salt, mustard, molasses, and hot water, and pour 
over the beans. Cover and bake slowly for 6 or 8 hours, until beans are 
soft. Add more hot water as needed, and a small onion if liked. Uncover 
pot for the last hour and lift up the pork, that it may become crisp and 
brown. Instead of the pork, a piece of any smoked meat may be used — 
corned beef, tongue, etc. If light-color beans are desired, only use 2 T. 
of molasses, or use sugar in place of molasses. Butter or oleo or any fat 
may be used in place of the meat. 



No. 99 BAKED BEAN LOAF WITH TOMATO SAUCE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



Baked beans (Recipe No. 

98) 4 C. 740 74 36 187 1405 8.80 

Bread crumbs 1 C. 80 9 2 49 252 1.50 

Tomato sauce (Recipe No. 

89) t C. 240 7 21 26 331 5.43 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1125 90 59 262 1988 15.73 

1 Serving 1 C 225 18 12 52 3.15 

Calories per serving. .. • 74 112 213 399 

Directions: 

Mash left-over baked beans ; ^ season with salt and pepper and a little 
onion juice, or chopped onion if liked. Mix with bread crumbs and form 
into a loaf. Bake in a greased pan, basting frequently with some of the 
tomato sauce (see Recipe No. 89) until the loaf is thoroughly heated. 
Serve with the remainder of the sauce. 



104 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 100 BAKED BEAN STEW Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meawirc Grams Grama Grams Grams riea Cents 

Baked beans 3 C. 555 56 27 141 1059 6.60 

Carrots 1 C. 200 2 1 19 96 1^ 

Potatoes 2 C 300 7 ♦ 55 254 1^ 

Turnips U C 140 2 ♦ 11 53 1.12 

Onions 1 SO 1 * 5 25 .22 

Oleo or drippings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 127 

Water 6 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 8 C. 1920 68 48 231 1673 12.03 

1 Serving U C 320 11 8 39 ^00 

Calories per serving 45 74 160 279 

Directions: 

Melt fat in saucepan and add onion, sliced fine; cook till brown. Then 
add vegetables, which have been peeled and cut in cubes, and toss in fat 
and onion for about 15 minutes; pour over them about 6 cups of water 
or vegetable broth; add salt and pepper to taste, and let simmer for 
i hour. Add more water if necessary, and about 15 minutes before serv- 
ing, stir in left-over baked beans. Add a little tomato if desired. This 
recipe requires about a cup of dried beans to give 3 cups of cooked beans. 



No. 101 LIMA BEANS Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Lima beans i C. 150 27 2 99 535 2.96 

Boiling water 

Total (cooked) 2i C. 375 27 2 99 535 2.96 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 75 5 ♦ 20 .59 

Calories per serving 21 * 82 103 

Directions: 

Wash dried lima beans well ; cover with warm water and soak 12 hours, 
or overnight. Drain, cover with boiling, salted water, and cook until 
tender. This will require about 2 hours. Let the water evaporate until 
just enough to moisten the beans well is left. Season with salt, pepper, 
and 2 T. of oleo or drippings. Cold lima beans may be used in salads and 
in vegetable hash. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



105 



No. 102 SCALLOPED LIMA BEANS Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Gt'ams ries Cents 

Beans 2 C 400 72 6 264 1433 8.00 

Tomatoes 1 can 800 10 2 32 191 8.00 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Bread crumbs i C 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1800 87 29 320 1938 18.02 

1 Serving 1 C. 300 15 5 53 3.00 

Calories per serving 62 47 217 326 

Directions: 

Cook beans till tender; drain, and arrange in baking dish with alternate 
layer of tomato. Put bread crumbs on top and dot with oleo. Season with 
salt and pepper, and bake in oven till beans are warmed through and 
crumbs are browned. Serve hot. 



No. 103 BEAN PUREE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beans 3 C. 600 135 11 358 2124 10.80 

Milk H C 366 12 15 18 263 3.75 

Drippings or butter substi- 
tute li T. 18 ♦ 15 — 140 .63 

Sugar } T. 6 — — 6 25 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 147 41 382 2552 15.18 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 29 8 76 3.03 

Calories per serving 119 74 312 505 

Directions: 

Soak dried beans overnight. Stew them in water until very tender (about 
H hours), changing the water after they first come to a boil. Drain well 
and rub through a sieve, or mash. Put the beans in the stewpan again 
with the fat, seasoning, and enough milk to make it like a cereal. Cook 
over boiling water for 1 hour ; stir often, and add more hot milk if needed. 
If liked, a little onion may be fried in the fat or in bacon and added to 
give flavor, or the puree may be made into cakes and fried. Dried peas 
may be used instead of beans. 



io6 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



Wo. 104 BBAN LOAF Serves 5 

Carbo- Owt 
Weight Protem Fat faydnte Calo- in 
Material Meaanre Grama Grama Graina Gnuna riea Cents 

Bean puree (Recipe Na 

103) 3C 750 88 24 229 1523 9j09 

Breadcrumbs i C 100 12 2 61 318 255 

Brown gravy (Redpe No. 

83) 2i C 3 31 16 366 2.14 

Total (cooked) 3f C. 950 103 57 306 2207 13.78 

1 Serving f C. 190 21 11 61 276 

Calories per serving. ... 86 102 250 438 

Directions: 

Take left-over puree (Recipe No. 103) ; moisten with brown gravy (see 
Recipe No. 83) and mix with bread crumbs. Form in a loaf, sprinkle 
witii bread crumbs over the top, and brown in the oven, basting with 
remainder of gravy. If left-over puree is not on hand, stew dried beans 
(about 2 cups), as for puree, and form in loaf, or mash instead of put- 
ting through the strainer. 



No. 105 STEWED BEANS AND TOMATO SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measnre Grams Grama Grama Grama riea Cents 

Beans 2 C. 400 90 7 238 1410 7.20 

Tomato sauce (Recipe No. 
89) f C. 240 7 21 26 331 5.43 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1540 97 28 264 1741 12.63 

1 Serving 1 C. 257 16 5 44 2.11 

Calories per serving.... 66 47 180 293 

Directions: 

Soak beans overnight; drain off water in the morning; put beans in 
kettle or stewpan, with enough water to cover and a pinch of soda. 
When water comes to a boil, drain off and add fresh water. Cook slowly 
for 4 to 5 hours, or until beans are tender. Season with salt and pepper, 
and pour over them hot tomato sauce (see Recipe No. 89). This can also 
be made into a loaf, as in Recipe No. 104. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



107 



No. 106 BOILED BEETS 



Serves 5 



Material 



Measure 



Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 



Carbo- 




Cost 


Fat hydrate 
Grams Grams 


Calo- 


m 


ries 


Cents 



Boiled beets 5 



1000 23 



1 



74 407 6.25 



1 Serving 1 



200 



IS 



1.25 



21 



62 



83 



Calories per serving 

Directions: 

Wash but do not scrape about 2i pounds of beets, and cook in boiling 
water for about 3 hours, or until soft. Drain and put in cold water ; rub 
off skins, cut in small pieces, and serve hot, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and 2i T. of oleo; or cover with vinegar, and serve cold. 



No. 107 BEET GREENS OR SPINACH 



Serves 6 



Material 



Measure 



Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 



Carbo- 

Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams 



Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 



Cooked spinach 2 h.T. 

Calories per serving 



Cooked beet greens 2 h. T. 



2h.T. 


100 


2 


4 


3 


57 


2.50 






8 


37 


12 


57 




2 h.T. 


100 


2 


3 


3 


48 


2.50 



8 



28 



12 



48 



Calories per serving 

Directions: 

Cut off roots ; break the leaves apart, and drop them into a large pan of 
water; rinse well, and continue washing till thoroughly free from sand. 
Put in a kettle with a little water and salt, and cook till tender, about 
30 minutes. Drain through colander, chop fine, and season, adding about 
3 or 4 tablespoonsful of drippings. 

As it takes about 1 peck of greens to serve a family of 6, unless the 
greens sell for about 10 cents a peck, they are not an economical food. 
Cabbage, string beans, chard, dandelion greens, kale, or squash may be 
cheaper, and can be substituted for the spinach to supply the very neces- 
sary green vegetable. 



No. 108 CARROTS AND CANNED PEAS Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Cannedpeas 3i C. 560 20 1 55 317 15.00 

Boiled carrots 2i C. 500 3 1 23 116 4.00 

Total 6 C. 1060 23 2 78 433 19.00 

1 Serving 1 C. 177 4 ♦ 13 3A7 

Calories per serving. ... 16 * 53 69 

Directions: 

Wash and scrape carrots ; cut in halves and cook in boiling, salted water 
45 minutes, or till soft; drain and cut in cubes. Open a can of peas, 
drain off liquid, and add peas to carrots. Season with salt and pepper, 
add about 2 T. oleo or crisco, heat vegetables through, and serve. 



io8 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 109 LENTIL HASH Serves S 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meaaure Grams Grama Grama GnuM rica Ccnta 

Lentils I C. 150 39 2 89 543 4.66 

Rice J C 150 12 ♦ 119 537 3.00 

Drippings or olco 2 T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 1-27 

Onion (chopped) 2 T. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Parsley (chopped ) 

Celery (chopped) 2 T. 

TofAL (cooked) 5 C 1200 51 22 208 1266 8.93 

1 Serving 1 C 240 10 4 41 179 

Calories per serving. ... 41 37 168 246 

Directions: 

Look over lentils; wash and soak overnight in cold water; drain off 
water, add lentils to fresh boiling water, and cook till soft. Wash and 
boil rice (Recipe No. 29). Cook separately 2 T. drippings, chopped onion, 
pepper, and salt, until onion is soft; then add, if you have it, chopped 
celery and a little chopped parsley, and cook 15 minutes; combine this 
with the rice and the lentils, and cook a few minutes longer. LentU Loaf 
may be made by mashing the lentils before combining them with the rice 
and seasoning, adding brown gravy to moisten, and baking in a loaf tiU 
well browned. 



No. 110 ONIONS, BOILED Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Onions 5 500 8 2 50 256 2.07 

Water 

Salt 

Total (cooked) 425 8 2 50 256 

1 Serving 1 85 2 ♦ 10 M 

Calories per serving. ... 8 41 49 

Directions: 

Cut off the roots, peel, and put into cold water. Drain and cover well with 
boiling water, adding 1 teaspoonful of salt for each quart of water. 
Cook till tender. Serve with a little oleo and pepper, or white sauce. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 109 



No. Ill SCALLOPED ONIONS Serves 6 

___ Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Onions 6 600 10 2 63 318 2.48 

Breadcrumbs i C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Oleo IT. 12 ♦ 10 — 93 .63 

White sauce (Recipe No. 

90) U C 360 15 45 34 620 5.90 

Total (cooked) 6 840 30 58 121 1159 9.76 

1 Serving 1 140 5 10 20 L63 

Calories per serving. . • • 21 93 82 196 

Directions: 

Peel and boil onions; drain; add li cups of white sauce (f Recipe 
No. 90). Place in a greased baking dish and cover with bread crumbs. 
Dot the top with oleo and bake on the grate of oven till brown. Onions 
prepared this way have a much more delicate flavor than when served 
boiled, with white sauce. 



No. 112 BAKED POTATOES 






Serves 5 


Material Measure 


Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 


Carbo- 

Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams 


Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 


Baked potatoes 5 


650 19 


1 160 


743 5.00 


1 Serving 1 


130 4 


♦ 32 


1.00 



Calories per serving.... 16 131 147 

Directions: 

Thoroughly wash the potatoes and bake in a hot oven 45 minutes, or till 
potatoes are soft. When done, break open the skins to let the steam 
escape. If any potatoes are left over, peel them while warm, and save to 
cut up for salad or to fry. 



No. 113 BOILED POTATOES (For composition, see Recipe No. 80) 

Directions: 

Wash and pare 5 potatoes of about the same size, and let them stand 
in cold water } hour. Cook in about 1 quart of boiling, salted water 20 to 
30 minutes, or till tender. Drain, uncover, and shake gently over the fire 
till dry. 



no FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

No. 114 SCALLOPED POTATOES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



Potatoes 8 1000 22 1 184 854 4.57 

Flour 2t 8 1 * 6 29 .08 

Oleo 2T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 127 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 560 39 41 214 1419 10.92 

1 Serving 2 h.T. 93 7 7 36 L^ 

Calories per serving. ... 29 65 148 242 

Directions: 

Wash, pare, and slice raw potatoes. Put a layer in a baking dish ; sprinkle 
with a little salt and pepper, dot over with oleo or butter, and sprinkle 
slightly with flour. Continue this until dish is nearly full; then half 
cover with milk. Bake 1 hour, keeping dish closely covered for the first 
half hour. 



No. 115 SUCCOTASH Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Centg 

Com 2i C. 580 16 7 110 582 12.00 

Cooked lima beans (Rec- 
ipe No. 101) 21 C. 375 27 2 99 535 2.96 

Oleo 2T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.26 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 41 C 960 43 29 209 1303 1622 

1 Serving I C 160 7 5 35 270 

Calories per serving. ... 29 47 144 220 

Directions: 

To 1 can corn add equal amount of cooked lima beans; season with salt 
and pepper, add oleo, and place in saucepan over the fire tiU hot 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS in 
No. 116 SCALLOPED TOMATOES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



Tomatoes 3 C. 650 8 1 26 149 6.00 

Oleo 2 T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 1.20 

Breadcrumbs f C. 60 7 1 37 190 1.20 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 3 C. 702 15 22 63 525 8.40 

1 Serving 1 C 117 3 4 11 L40 

Calories per serving. ... 12 37 45 94 

Directions: 

Drain the liquid from a can of tomatoes, and put away for flavoring. 
Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer of the solid tomatoes. 
Over this sprinkle salt and pepper and dots of oleo, using about 1 T. 
, of oleo for each layer. Cover with a layer of cracker or bread crumbs, 
then another layer of tomatoes, and so on until the tomatoes have all 
been used, having crumbs on the top. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 
Fresh tomatoes may be used in place of canned ones if they are suffi- 
ciently cheap. 

The liquid from the tomatoes may be used to flavor vegetables, soups, 
gravies, or stews, or a little of it may be baked with the tomatoes. 



No. 117 VEGETABLE HASH Serve« 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Lima beans (cooked) .... 3 C. 500 36 3 132 717 4.00 

Beets (cooked) U C 260 6 * 19 103 2.50 

Potatoes (cooked) If C 280 7 * 59 271 1.70 

Butter substitute 4 T. ^8 ♦ 41 - 381 1.70 

Milk iC. 122 4 5 6 88 1.20 

Salt and pepper 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 840 53 49 216 1560 11.10 

1 Serving 1 C. 140 9 8 36 150 

Calories per serving.... 37 74 148 259 

Directions: 

Hash may be made with one or many cooked vegetables, alone or com- 
bined with meat or fish. Cut the vegetables fairly fine, then mix them; 
season with salt and pepper and, if liked, a little onion, parsley, or green 
pepper. Moisten with milk, soup stock, or water. Melt butter substitute 
or drippings in frying pan, add hash, and spread evenly. Over this put 
dots of drippings or crisco. Cover the pan and place where hash will not 
bum, but where heat is fairly good ; cook i hour ; then fold and turn on 
hot platter. Hash should have a rich, brown crust For the above recipe 
use about 4 beets and 2i potatoes. 



112 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 118 CREAM TOAST Serves 6 

; Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Meaaure Grama Grams Grams Grama riea Cents 

Toast 6 slices 408 47 7 248 1275 6S0 

White sauce (Recipe No. 
90) 2 C 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 

Total (cooked) 6 slices 888 67 68 293 2109 14.76 

1 Serving 1 slice 148 11 11 49 2M 

Calories per serving. ... 45 102 201 348 

Directions: 

Slice stale bread f to 1 inch thick ; lay in oven until brown or brown over 
coals, turning frequently, so that both sides are toasted equally. Dip each 
slice in hot water to soften; put in hot dish, and pour white sauce (see 
Recipe No. SX)) over the toast 



/ 



No. 119 BOILED SALAD DRESSING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weiffht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt IT. 6 

Mustard i T. 4 .28 

Sugar 4t. 16 — — 16 66 .16 

Flour IT. 7 1 ♦ 5 25 .08 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Oleo or butter (melted) . . 2 T. 24 ♦ 20 — 186 1.27 

Milk i C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.80 

Vinegar i C. 45 .65 

Cayenne Few grains 

Or pepper i_t 

Total (cooked) 1 C. 300 14 32 30 449 6.24 

1 Serving 2 T. 50 2 5 5 1.04 

Calories per serving. ... 8 47 21 76 

Directions: 

Mix salt, mustard, flour, and pepper ; add egg slightly beaten, the melted 
butter, and milk. Add vinegar slowly, and cook over hot water for about 
8 minutes, or till the mixture thickens, stirring all the time. Strain and 
cool. Bottle what is not required for immediate use. 




if desired; also 

oil, and when well 
emulsion is 
:$sing for the saUd 
ide up at one time, 
l>art of vinegar, and 
tightly corked bottle 



.»..*..«.,«..«. 







^^niSi: 80 404 2.30 



^/2g:!^:g:=§ t 109 627 3.86 
^"^"^^I^:'!^!' « 202 I.IS 

-S-:$:S:^:'si':23:g; - 28 21 

40 230 1^ 



WHAT THE DAY'S FOOD SHOULD PROVIDE^ 

The menus supply the following substances: mineral sub- 
stances, protein, starch, sugar, fat, cellulose, certain newly dis- 
covered substances in very small amounts, flavoring and condi- 
ments, in about the right proportions to keep the family in 
healthful condition. 

An easy way to select the right foods is to group the differ- 
ent kinds, according to their uses in the body, and then make 
sure that all groups are represented regularly in the meals. 

The list below shows some of the common food materials 
arranged according to the nutrient for which they are usually 
considered most valuable, though some foods belong in more 
than one group. 

Group i. — Foods depended on for mineral matters, 
vegetable acids, and body-regulating substances 

Fruits : Vegetables : 

Apples, pears, etc. Salads — lettuce, celery, etc. 

Bananas Potherbs or "greens" 

Berries Potatoes and root vegetables 

Melons Green peas, beans, etc. 

Oranges, lemons, etc. Tomatoes, squash, etc. 

Etc. Etc. 

Group 2. — Foods depended on for protein 

Milk, skim milk, cheese, etc. Fish 

Eggs Dried peas, beans, cowpeas, etc. 

Meat Nuts 

Poultry 

Group 3. — Foods depended on for starch 

Cereal grains, meals, flours, etc. Cakes, cookies, starchy puddings. 

Cereal breakfast foods etc. 

Bread Potatoes and other starchy vege- 

Crackers tables 

Macaroni and other pastes 

Group 4. — Foods depended on for sugar 

Sugar Candies 

Molasses Fruits preserved in sugar, jellies. 

Syrups and dried fruits 

Honey Sweet cakes and desserts 

Group 5. — Foods depended on for fat 

Butter and cream Salt pork and bacon 

Lard, suet, and other cooking fats Table and salad oils 

^Condensed from How to Select Foods, Farmers^ Bulletin 808, U.S. De- 
partment of Agriculture. Hunt and Atwater. 

114 



COST OF SUPPLIES 

Statement 

The list of supplies is given by the week because the work- 
ingman or artisan is usually paid weekly. The supplies to be 
purchased are computed from the amounts required by the 
recipes used in the menus. 

The materials for our recipes were purchased in the winter 
of 1914, and the prices of individual recipes were estimated on 
the basis of 1914 figures. Since then there has been a rapid and Prioet 
striking advance in cost of food materials, so that in our sup- 
ply sheet we have shown the changes in price from January, 
1914, to November, 1916. We have given three columns of 
prices ; first, the 1914 prices of the food commodities we have 
used in the preparation of our menus ; second, prices for July, 
1916; and third, prices for November, 1916. It will be seen 
that there is a total increase of 3.7 per cent of July, 1916, 
prices over January, 1914, prices, and a further increase of 8.5 
per cent of November, 1916, prices over July, 1916, prices, 
making prices for November, 1916, 12 per cent higher than 
those for January, 1914, the time at which our recipes were 
worked out. It will be necessary, therefore, in view of the 
fluctuating prices of foodstuffs, to re-reckon costs of food 
materials for future use. 

The purchases total an average of $7 per week for the 
seven weeks for five people. As some of the recipes serve 
more than five people (see page 29), the cost of supplies, 
as shown on the following sheet, is slightly more than this 
average. The cost for the first week is the highest, as gen- 
eral supplies must be laid in. Some of these supplies, as 
shown on the sheet, are carried over the seven weeks* period, 
and the value of the surplus on hand is deducted from the first 
seven weeks and may be charged against the following week. 



"5 



ii6 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



Unit 



AMOUNTS PURCHASED 
litwk. 2dwk. 3dwk. 4thwk. Sthwk. 6thwk. 7th 



Staples: 

Bread loaf 

Eggs dozen 

Milk quart 

Tea pound 

Coffee pound 

Cocoa i lb. can 

Sugar pound 

Flour (bag) 24i lbs. 

(1 bag) 

Cereals : 

Barley PO«nd 

Corn meal pound 

Cracked wheat pound 

Cream of wheat ... 2»oz. pkg. 

Farina ISoz.pkg. 

Hominy POund 

Macaroni lb. pkg. 

Rice pound 

Rolled oats pound 

Shredded wheat... package 

Tapioca pound 

American cheese... pound 

Cream cheese package 

Meat: 

Round pound 

Stew pound 

For beans pound 

Lamb (forequarter) pound 

Flank pound 

Brisket pound 

Corned beef pound 

Smoked shoulder., pound 

Fish: 

Fresh haddock pound 

Canned salmon .... can 

Salt codfish pound 

Fats: 

Oil i pint 

Oleomargarine .... pound 

Suet pound 

Vegetable fat 24 oz. can 

Legumes: 

Beans pound 

Lentils pound 

Lima beans pound 

Split peas pound 



15i 

A 

11 

1 
} 

4 
1 bag 



3 
4 
1 
2 
1 

2 
1 
2 



f 



H 
21 
i 
3 



2 
1 

n 
1 



18 

A 

Si 



1 
1 
1 

i 

1 
1 



2 
21 



15} 

,5 


18* 

J- 


16} 


1 

4 


i 

4 


6 


1 


i 

1 




1 


1 


1 


1 
1 


i 

1 


2 

U 

1 

1 


2 
5 


1 


21 




U 


3 


1 




31 


1 
1 


1 


2 

1 




2 
2 


1 

1 



18 

lA 

9 
1 



1 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 



1 
1 



181 

A 

8 



4 
Ibag 



1 



3} 



1 
1 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



117 



1 






Total Cost 


Amount 


Surplus 
on Hand 




f 7 Weeks' 


Prices per 1 


Unit 


as per 


Required 


Value of 


Total 


Jan., 


July. 


Nov., 


July, 1916 


as per 


at ipd of 
7thlVeek 


Surplus 
on Hand 


Purchases 


1914 


1916 


1916 


Prices 


Recipes 


120i loaves 


$.10 


$.10 


$ .10 


$12.05 








5^ dozen 


24 


.24 


.37 


122 








68 quarts 


.10 


.10 


.10 


6.81 








^ pound 


.30 


.30 


.30 


.10 








3 pounds 


.25 


.25 


2S 


.75 


2f lbs. 


lib. 


$.083 


1 pound 


.19 


.19 


.19 


.38 








32 pounds 


.055 


.085 


.075 


2.72 








2 bags 


1.20 


.95 


1.30 


1.90 


26ilbs. 


22i lbs. 


.85 




(lb. rate) 


(bag rate) 










i pound 


.05 


.05 


.06 


.02 








6 pounds 


.03 


.03 


.032! 


; .18 


51 lbs. 


ilb. 


.007 


4 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.20 


3i lbs. 


lib. 


.025 


3 packages 


.14 


.14 


.17 


.42 


4i lbs. 


fib. 


.06 


5 packages 


.05 


.10 


.10 


.50 


4 lbs. 


Hlb. 


.069 


4 pounds 


.03 


.03 


.03 


.12 








2 packages 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.18 


U pkgs. 


ipkg. 


.045 


7 pounds 
si pounds 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.63 


6i lbs. 


ilb. 


.023 


.04 


.04 


.05 


.21 








5 packages 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.50 








1 pound 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.09 








2 pounds 


21 


.24 


.26 


.48 








1 package 


.05 


.05 


.06 


.05 








13 pounds 


.18 


.18 


.22 


2.34 








10 pounds 


.14 


.16 


.16 


1.60 








i pound 


.15 


.15 


.15 


.05 








3 pounds 
4f pounds 


.18 


.18 


.18 


.54 








.16 


.20 


.20 


.90 








3 pounds 


.20 


.20 


.20 


.60 








2pounds 
si potmds 


.20 


.20 


.20 


.40 








.15 


.15 


.15 


.53 








51 pounds 


.06 


.08 


.08 


.44 








lean 


.14 


.14 


.14 


.14 








li pounds 


.12 


.12 


.18 


.21 








ipint 
11 pounds 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 








.24 


24 


25 


2.64 


10} lbs. 


lib. 


.12 


ipotuid 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.09 








3 cans 


.24 


.28 


.33 


.84 








5 pounds 
2} pounds 


.08 


.08 


.13 


.40 








.14 


.20 


.20 


.50 








4 pounds 


.09 


.09 


.13 


.36 


3ilbs. 


ilb. 


J023 


2 pounds 


.06 


.09 


.11 


.18 









ii8 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



Unit 



AMOUNTS PURCHASED 
Ittwk. 2dwk. 3dwk. 4t]iwk. Sthwk. 6thwk. 7thwk. 



Vegetables: 

Beets 2 pounds 

Com (canned) can 

Cabbage pound 

Carrots 2 pounds 

Greens peck 

Lettuce head 

Onions 3 pounds 

Peas (canned) can 

Potatoes peck 

3 pounds 

Tomatoes (fresh).. 2i pounds 

Tomatoes (canned) can 

Turnips 2 pounds 

Fruit: 

Apples ( fresh) 3 pounds 

Apples (dried) pound 

Apricots pound 

Bananas dozen 

Berries box 

Dates pound 

Lemons dozen 

Oranges dozen 

Prunes pound 

Raisins lb. pkg. 

Rhubarb pound 

Miscellaneous: 

Baking powder « lb. can 

Cornstarch lb. pkg. 

Crackers pound 

Gelatine package 

Telly glass 

Junket package 

ao tablets) 

Molasses quart 

Peanuts pint 

Salt 5 pounds 

Spices: 

Allspice i pound 

Cinnamon 1 pound 

Ginger i pound 

Nutmeg i pound 

Mustard i pound 

Soda i pound 

Vanilla... bottle 

Vinegar quart 



21 


f 

1 


1 


21 


21 


2} 


1 


3i 

1 


2 


U 

1 


1 

1 




3 


1 


3 






3 


1 




1 






} 






2i 


2i 


2i 




2 




2 




1 


3 




1 




U 


i 




10 


3 


7 


5i 


2\ 


1} 

1 


U 






\i 






10 


U 




5 

1 


1 
2 


3 


i 




i 


i 




i 


2 


2 


2 




1 


{■ 


1 






2 


1 


1 


1 


1 






1 


1 


i 








i 




1 


i 










1 


1 






1 


1 


1 












1 


1 
1 






1 


1 


5 












i 












i 












i 












i 












1 












i 












1 












1 













2f 
1 



2i 
1 



41 

5 

U 



Cost of purchases 



$11.32 $7.03 $6.93 $6.13 $7.75 $7.31 $6.64 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



119 









< 


rotalCost 


Amount 


Surplus 
on Hand 




7 Weeks* 


Prices per i 


Unit 


as per 


Required 


Value of 


Total 
Purchases 


Jan., 
1914 


July. 

1916 


Nov., 
1916 


July, 1916 
Prices 


as per 
Recipes 


at end of 
7th Week 


Surplus 
onuand 


121 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.10 


.32 








lean 


.12 


.12 


.12 


.12 








3} pounds 


.04 


.04 


.04 


.14 








81 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


22 








3 pecks 


.125 


.125 


2S 


.39 








2 heads 


.05 


.05 


.10 


.10 








9 pounds 


.05 


.08 


.15 


24 


81 lbs. 


lib. 


.013 


1 can 


.15 


.15 


.15 


.15 








21 pecks 


.25 
.05 


.25 
.05 


.50 
.10 


.63 








9 pounds 


.09 


X)9 


.09 


J36 








9 cans 


.06 


.09 


.12 


.81 


81 cans 


ican 


M7 


21 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


J07 








34 pounds 


.10 


.10 


.10 


1.14 








1 pound 


.12 


.12 


.17 


.12 


lib. 


lib. 


M 


3 pounds 
1 tldozen 


.14 


.14 


.18 


.42 








.15 


.15 


.15 


.31 








2 boxes 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.20 








51 pounds 


.10 


.10 


.15 


.53 








11 dozen 


.15 


.15 


.20 


.18 








A dozen 
9 pounds 


.30 


.30 


.25 


.13 








.10 


.10 


.10 


.90 








5 packages 


.11 


.11 


.11 


.55 








4 pounds 


.03 


.03 


.03 


.12 








1 pound 


21 


.21 


.21 


.42 


fib. 


lib. 


.105 


1 pound 


.08 


.06 


X)6 


.08 


lib. 


lib. 


.04 


1 pound 


.08 


.08 


.08 


.02 








2 packages 


.12 


.12 


.12 


.24 








2 glasses 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.20 








1 package 


.08 


j06 


.08 


.08 


2 tblts. 


8 tblts. 


.06 


4 quarts 


.14 


.14 


.14 


.56 


311 qts. 


11 cups 


.04 


Ipint 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.05 








5 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.05 








1 pound 


.08 


j06 


.08 


.08 


Ibox 


ibox 


.07 


1 pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


A box 


A box 


.09 


1 pound 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.09 


1 box 


1 box 
A box 


.08 


1 pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


A box 


.09 


1 pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


iVbox 


A box 


.09 


1 pound 


.07 


.07 


.07 


.07 


^ box 


f box 


.05 


1 bottle 


.25 


.25 


26 


.25 








1 quart 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


Ipt 


llpts. 


.08 



Gross total of 7 weeks' expenditures $53.11 

Less: Value of surplus 2.22 

Net total of 7 weeks' expenditures $50.89 



HOW TO BUILD AND USE A FIRELESS COOKER 

Reprinted from Form No. 77^* States Relations Service, Office of 
Extension Work, South, U. S. Department of Agriculture and State 
Agricultural Colleges cooperating. 

The principle of the tireless cooker is to retain the heat ob- 
tained by first boiling the food for a few minutes. It is then 
placed in the cooker^ which does not allow the heat to escape. 
The food must be heated in the same vessel in the cooker. This 
vessel must have tight cover and be moved from fire to cooker 
as quickly as possible. Otherwise, heat will be lost. Hot soap- 
stones are sometimes placed in the cooker with the food when 
higher temperature is needed or longer cooking desired. These 
may be purchased from a hardware dealer at fifty cents each. 

1. Time saving. While food is cooking, the housekeeper 
may be occupied with other duties without fear of its burning. 

2. Better foods. Many foods thus cooked for a longer time 
at a low temperature have finer flavor and are more whole- 
some than if cooked on a stove at higher temperature. 

3. Comfort. Saves working in hot kitchen, keeping up 
fires, watching food. 

dvanta^M ^ p^^| sj^yi^g. Fire kept up just long enough to make 

food boiling hot before putting in cooker. In summer, the use 
of a fireless cooker with a kerosene stove will result in both 
comfort and economy. 

Select a tightly built wooden box, an old trunk, barrel, large 
lard tub, or tin lard can for the outside container. This must 
be large enough to allow at least four inches of packing all 
^"'*Ccf k** around the nest. A box long enough to contain two compart- 
ments may be secured. If this is done, there should be at least 
six inches of packing between the two nests, and two cushions 
to cover each nest separately, so that one vessel may be removed 
without disturbing the other. 

The nest, to contain the vessel of hot food, must be con- 
sidered next. If no hot stone is to be used, this nest may be 

120 



#iliilf;ii:lf^ 




;SS COOKER 



ItfS^wf ^fJBl^V^pc and as snug as 
lis AtSi"l^# in and out If too 
'•^•S^<^4licai'(lt>'»r(l forming 

I ^J«a^£^MA|'earttiu^ be used. A tin 

"~ H^Blgirtt KtSt ^^^ ^ galvanized 

" ilEfSvue and the cooker 

S^Afcd with asbestos to 

[^^ML<Hiim|eW]^ flfning the packing. 

il vn^lH Bter container, some 

;|| ^j||f^|S( layers of paper to 

Btll^jB8^^91t^?bredded newspaper, 

■^^'^-S^^P^^'^Jng. The pack- ^ 

■^i^ta^SrCQl^t^lMs^^ontainer to a depth 

r asbestos for the 

ird cylinder or the 

e pressing the pack- 

:es. When this has 

i cardboard to 6t the 

This cardboard 

3iest by pasted strips 

t a paper cover to 

strips on top. The 

_ _ )f the outside con- 

l^^^^^'^f)*!^ Make this the exact 

.«..«.«»._ •»..». ^gjjjjjg^^ It should 

t against the top 

5 closed. If a 

kpttrith hook to fasten it 

||da]|^^i|is¥tni>e fastened by means 

._. ®fif fe=lpx)und the top. If a 

glt^lCfC^l^re sightly if stained 

[:{|^^^:^£^ The cooker will be 

^i^^^lij^EilE the bottom to make 



122 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

For this any utensil which has a tight cover and which will 
fit the nest may be used. There should be no air space left to 
cause loss of heat. A vessel having straight sides and having 
VmmI ^^ same depth as diameter is best. A special enamel or alu- 
minum fireless cooker vessel can be purchased for 50 cents 
to $1.50, depending upon size and material. Aluminum is the 
best» because it will retain heat for a longer time. 

Efficient cooking will depend upon retention of heat. A 

small quantity of food will not hold as mtKh heat as a larger 

Homemade ^^^' ^^^ ^^'^' therefore, continue cooking for a shorter time. 

Cooker The more nearly full the vessel is of food, the better will the 

heat be retained. In heating the soapstones, be careful not to 

let them become red-hot, because of danger of cracking. 



REFERENCES 

The following references will be of considerable value to 
those who are in search of further information. They have all 
been used in the preparation of this volume. 

The Annalist. New York Times Company^ New York. Vol. 8, No. 185, 
July 31. 1916. 

Annual Report on the Statistics of Labor for 1914 and 1915. The 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Bureau of Statistics. 

Atwater and Bryant: The Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materials. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28, 1900 (revised edition). 

BnsDERT UND Langermann : Diatetik und Kochbuch fur Magen-und 
Darmkranke. Ferdinand Enke, Stuttgart, 1909. Zerdte Auflage, 
page 120 ff. 

Chapin: The Standards of Living among Workingmen's Families in 
New York City, N. Y., 1907, Russell Sage Foundation. 

CoNDiT AND Long : How to Cook and Why. Harper and Brothers, New 
York, 1914. 

Farmer: The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. Little, Brown & 
Company, Boston, 1912. 

Feeding the Family of Small Income: Prepared under the auspices 
of the New England Home Economics Association, Boston, Mass., 
February, 1916. 

FoxTRTH Report of the Factory Investigating Commission. Albany, 
N. Y., 1915. 

Gefhart and Lusk: Analysis and Cost of Ready-to-Serve Foods. 
Press of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 19 15. 

GiBBS : Lessons in the Proper Feeding of the Family. New York Asso- 
ciation for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New York, 191 1. 

Grindley and Mojonnier: Experiments on Losses in Cooking Meat. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 
Bulletin No. 141. 

How TO Build and Use a Fireless Cooker. U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture and State Agricultural Colleges cooperating. States Rela- 
tions Service, Office of Extension Work, South, Form No. yy6. 

Hunt: Food for Young Children. U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 717, March 4, 1916. 

Hutchison : Food and the Principles of Dietetics. Wood, London, 191 1. 

IsoLA : Simple Italian Cookery. Harper and Brothers, New York, 1912. 

Johnson : Large Meals for Little Money. The People's University Ex- 
tension Society, New York, 191 1. 

Kaudler : The Settlement Cook Book. Milwaukee, 1901. 

Kittredge: Housekeeping Notes, 191 1. The Author, 62 Washington 
Square, New York. 

Locke: Food Values. Appleton, New York, 191 1. 

Low Earnings and Disease. Editorial, Journal of American Medical 
Association, June 17, 1916, page 1927. 

Lusk: The Elements of the Science of Nutrition (second edition). 
Saunders, Philadelphia, 1909. 
The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. Yale University Press, 1916. 

123 



124 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

Mendel : Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 

Yale University Press, 1916. 
Morse : The Care and Feeding of Children. Harvard University Press, 

Cambridge, Mass., 1914. 
Nesbitt: Low Cost Cooking. American School of Home Economics, 

Chicago, 1915. 
Pierce: The Hartley House Cook Book. Wessels & Bissell Company, 

New York, 1910. 
Retail Prices. Series of Bulletins, U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau 

of Labor Statistics. 
Report of the New York City Board of Estimates on the Cost of 

Living for Unskilled Laborers. New York, 191 5. 
Richards : Dietary Computer. John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1902. 

The Cost of Food : A Study in Dietaries. Ibid., 1908. 
Robinson and Hammel: Lessons in Cooking through Preparation of 

Meals. American School of Home Economics, Chicago, 1912. 
Rose: A Laboratory Hand-Book for Dietetics. Macmillan, New York, 

1912. 
Rxjbner : The Nutrition of the People. Transactions of the isth Inter- 
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography, Washington, 1912. 

I, 385. 

Schereschewsky : Health of Garment Workers ; The Relation of Eco- 
nomic Status to Health. Public Health Report, May 26, 1916. xxxi, 
1298. 

Sherman: Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, Macmillan, New York, 
1912. 
Food Products. Ibid., 1915. 

Stern : The Work of the Visiting Housekeeper. Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, 191 5. vii, 175. 

Stiles: Nutritional Physiology. Saunders, Philadelphia, 1915. 

Underbill : Report on Nutrition Investigation ; see Chapin, The Stand- 
ards of Living, etc. Appendix vi, page 319. 

Veeder: Standards for Determining the Suitability of Patients for 
Admission to a Free Dispensary. Journal of American Medical 
Association, July 8, 1916. 

WiNSLOw: Excerpts from annual reports of charitable organization 
societies showmg development in visiting housekeeping. Journal af 
Home Economics, 191 5. vii, 179. 

Woodman : Food Analysis. McGraw Free Book Company, New York, 
191S. 



' 



REFEREITCES 125 

Government pamphlets as follows will be found very 
helpful : 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 85 : Fish as food. 

No. 121 : Beans, peas, and other legumes as food. 
No. 142 : Principles of nutrition and nutritive value 

of food. 
No. 249: Cereal breakfast foods. 
No. 256: Preparation of vegetables for the table. 
No. 332: Nuts and their uses as food. 
No. 363 : Use of milk as food. 
No. 293: Use of fruit as food. 
No. 391 : Economical use of meat in the home. 

These pamphlets are published by the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture at the Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington, D. C, and may be obtained from the Superintendent of 
Documents, Washington, D. C., at a nominal cost. 

Since the preparation of this manuscript "Feedimg the Family/' by 
Mary Swartz Rose (The Macmillan Co., New York), has been published, 
and is a valuable addition to books on the subject. 



^ ( 



INDEX 



AblMreviationsi 30* 

Adolescence, caloric requirement, 7. 

food needs, 4. 
Adult, caloric requirement, 7. 
Advantages of meat, 16. 
Allowance, German minimum, 3. 
American housewife, 17. 
Analysis of recipe, 27. 
Apple, baked, 87. 

Betty, 75. 

dry, fresh, 11, 86. 

pudding, 76, 

sauce, 86. 

tapioca, 77. 
Application of science to life, i. 
Apricot sauce, 87. 
Ash constituents, 2, 9. 
Atwater and Bryant, 5, 7, 26, 27, 
Availability of data, 5. 

Baked apple, 87. 

banana, 87. 

bean loaf, 103. 

bean stew, 104. 

beans, 103. 

potatoes, 109. 
Baker's bread, 11. 
Baking powder, 21. 

biscuits, 62. 
Balance in diet, 6. 
Balanced menus, need for, 22, 
Bananas, baked, 87. 
Barley, Scotch soup, 102. 
Basal metabolism, 4. 

of boys, 8. 
Basis of calculation, 7. 
Bean loaf, 106. 

pur6e, 105. 
Beans, baked, 16, 103. 

baked bean loaf, 103. 

Lima, 104. 

Lima, scalloped with tomatoes, 105. 

stewed, 104. 

with tomato sauce, 106. 
Beef, braised, 89. 

corned, 89. 

Hamburg steak, 91. 

round, pot roast, 90. 

steak flank, stuffed and baked, 70. 

stew with vegetables, 94. 
Beets, 107. 
Beverages, cocoa, 61. 



Beverages^ coffee* St* 

tea, 61. 
Blood, Dr. Alice F., 9 
Boiled dressing, 112. 

rice, 29. 
Boys, basal metabolism, 8. 
Braised beef, 89. 
Bread, baker's, 11. 

homemade, 11. 

pudding, 77. 
Breads and biscuits, 62, 

baking powder biscuits, 62. 

corn bread, 62. 

griddle cakes, 63. 
Breakfast, plan of, 15. 
Bryant, Atwater and, s, 7, 26, 27. 
Budget for food, 24. 
Bulk, see Roughage. 
Bulk goods, 21. 
Butter substitutes, 12. 



Cabbage, 89, 107. 

Cakes and cookies, fruit, 63. 

fruit cookies, 65. 

gingerbread, 64. 

ginger cookies, 65. 

oat wafers, 66. 

oatmeal macaroons, 66. 

plain, 63. 
Calculation, basis of, 7. 

method of, 26. 
Caloric requirement, adolescence, 7. 

adult life, 7. 

childhood, 7. 

per person, 6, 7, 16. 

values for menus, !$• 
Calorie idea, 6. 

norm, 7* 

yield in custard, 28. 
Camerer, 7. 
Candy, fudge, 67, 

molasses, 67, 

peanut, 68. 

penuchi, 68. 
Caramel custard, 29. 

sauce, 97. 
Carbohydrates, requirement, 6, 

per person, 6, 16. 
Carrots and canned peas, 107. 
Cellulose, 9. 
Cereal soup, 100. 
Cereals in bulk, 21, 
126 



INDEX 



127 



Cereals, corn meal, 70* 

corn mush, fried, 71. 

cracked wheat, 69. 

cream of wheat, 69. 

farina, 70. 

gruel, 69. 

hominy, 70. 

macaroni, boiled, 72. 

macaroni and cheese, 72, 

macaroni croquettes, 73. 

oatmeal cakes, 71. 

in pa<*^ age, 21. 

rice cakes, 74. 
and cheese, 74. 
scalloped, 74. 
steamed, 73. 

rolled oats, 71. 

rolled oats cakes, 66, 71. 
Changes in diet, 23. 
Cheese fondue, 75. 

with macaroni, 72. 

with rice, 74. 

sauce, 97. 
Children and malnutrition, 2. 

basal metabolism, 4. 

caloric requirement, 7. 
Chocolate custard, 29. 

farina pudding, 78. 

pudding, 78. * 
Choice of food, see Food. 
Chowder, com, 99. 

fish, 100. 
Cocoa, 6 1. 
Codfish balls, 85. 

creamed, 85. 

hash, 85. 
Coffee, 61. 

disuse of, 13. 
Composition of food by percentage, 

weight, 27. 
Computations, their value, 24, 
Condit and Long, 11. 
Conservation of supplies, 22. 
Constants, 113, insert/. 
Construction of menu, 9. 
Conversion tables, 30. 
Cooked foods, values for, 25. 
Cooking, loss of weight in, 28. 
Com bread, 62, 

chowder, 99. 

meal, 70. 

mush, fried, 71. 
Corned beef, 89. 

and cabbage, 89. 
Cornstarch pudding, 79. 
Cost, advanced, iis* 



Cost at Second Avenue, 3. 

computed, of foods, 9. 

limits choice, 16. 

lowest, 5. 

of family dietary, 3, 4. 

of meat, i6, 

of supplies, 20, 115. 

relation of, to income, 22, 

reduced by substitution, 29. 

varies with requirement, 7. 
Cottage pudding, 79. 
Cream tapioca pudding, 79. 

toast, 112. 
Creamed codfish, 85. 

salt fish, 85. 
Custard, 27, 80. 

caramel or chocolate, 29. 

Data, availability of, 5. 
Date and prune sauce, 88. 
Deficiency after substitution, i6» 
Dietary changes, 23. 

for child, cost of, 3, 4, 21. 

for family, cost of, 13. 

for varied group, 7, 13. 

laws, Jewish, 18. 

traditional, 24, 
Desserts, Apple Betty, 75. 

apple cake, Dutch, 76. 

apple pudding, 76, 

apple tapioca, 77. 

bread pudding, 77. 

chocolate farina pudding, 78. 

chocolate pudding, 78. 

cornstarch pudding, 79. 

cottage pudding, 79. 

cream tapioca pudding, 79. 

custard, 28, 80. 

fruit pudding, steamed, 80. 

fruit shortcake, 81. 

Indian pudding, bsJced, 8x. 

junket, 82. 

prune jelly, 82. 

prune loaf, 83. 

rice pudding, 83. 
Dinner, plan of, 15. 
DuBois, 4, 8. 
Dutch apple cake, 7(S* 

Edible portion, 26, 

Eggs, 28. 

Energy requirement, 2. 

Factors considered in menus, 5. 
Factors, psychological, 15. 
Family, average, 3, 6. 
dietary, cost of, 3, 4* 



128 



INDEX 



Farina cereal, 70* 

chocolate jmdding, 78. 

soup, 100. 
Fat foods, 114. 

requirement per person, 6, 16. 
Fats, vegetable, 12. 
Feeding, improper, 2. 
Fireless cooker, 120. 
Fish, baked and stuffed, 84. 

boiled, 84. 

chowder, 100. 

codfish balls, 85. 

codfish, creamed, 85. 

codfish hash, 85. 

haddock, 84. 

on Friday, i6. 

salmon loaf, 86. 
Flavor, extension of, 17. 

tomatoes as, 8. 
Flour by the bag, 1 1. 

barrel, 12. 

pound, 21. 
Food budget, 24. 

choice of, by instinct, x. 

choice, free, 2. 

composition, 27, 

cost of, by package, 2U 

for family, a problem, 5. 

as fuel, 6. 

groups, 114. 

and nationality, 17. 

nutritious, 5. 

record, 24. 

requirements, 6. 

requirements for family, 6. 

selection of, 1 14. 

sufficient, 5. 

supply, restricted, 2, 5. 

synonyms, 18, 19. 

to be all eaten, 22. 

values, how to compute, 28. 

and wages, 22. 
Foods, national, correspond, 19. 
Foreign dishes, 17. 
Forty cents, purchasing power of, 4. 
French dressing, 113. 
Friday fish, 16. 
Fruit cake, 8, 63. 

cookies, 65. 

dried, 10, ii. 

fresh, 10, II. 

pudding, steamed, 8o. 

shortcake, 81. 
Fruits, apple sauce, 86. 

apple sauce (dried apples), 86. 

apples, baked, 87. 



Fruits, apricot or peach sauce, 87. 

bananas, baked, 87. 

date and prune jam, 88. 

prune sauce, 88. 

rhubarb sauce, 88. 
Fudge, 67. 
Fuel, food as, 6. 

Gephart, 4, 8. 

German minimum allowance, 3. 

Gibbs, 8. 

Gingerbread, 64. 

Ginger cookies, 65. 

Gram the unit of measure, 26. 

Gravy, see Sauce. 

Greens, see Vegetables. 

Griddle cakes, 63. 

Grocery order, 8, 9, 115. 

Haddock, baked and stuffed, 84. 
Hamburg steak, 91. 
Hard sauce, 97. 
Hash, codfish, 85. 

lentil, 108. 

vegetable, iii. 
Holt, 7. 

Homemaker, 20, 24. 
Hominy, 70. 

Hormones, see Vitamines. 
Housekeeper, instructive visiting, 22, 

23. 
Housewife, American, 17. 

Italian, 18. 

Jewish, 18. 

unskilled, 23. 
Hunt, 12, 13. 
Hunt, Langworthy and, 17. 

Improper feeding, 2. 

Income, relation of food cost to, 22. 

Indian pudding, baked, 81. 

Industrial worker, 23. 

Instinct in choice of food, i. 

Instruction of homemaker, 5. 

Instructive visiting housekeeper, 22, 

23. 
Italian housewife, i8. 

Jelly, prune, 82. 
Jewish dietary laws, 18. 
Jfewish housewife, 18. 
Junket, 82. 

Laborer, unskilled, 22. 
Lamb, roast, 91. 

stew, 94. 
Langworthy and Hunt, 17* 
Legumes as food, 23. 

as protein food, 17* 

replace meat, Z7« 



INDEX 



129 



Lemon sauce, 9& 
Lentil hash, 108. 

soup, 1 01. 
Lettuce salad, 95. 
Liebig, Justus von, i. 
Life, application of science to, i. 
Lima beans, 104. 

scalloped, with tomatoes, 105. 
Loss of weight in cooking, 28. 
Lunch, plan of, 15. 

for man, 19. 
Lusk, Graham, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9. 

Macaroni, boiled, 72. 

and cheese, 72. 

croquettes, 73. 

meat scalloped with, 93. 
Malnutrition, 2. 
Man, caloric requirement, 7. 

lunch for, 19. 
Measurements, level, 26* 
Measures, standard of, 25. 

tables of, 30. 

unit of, the gram, 26 et seq. 
Meat, advantages of, x6. 

cost of, 16. 

extension of flavor, 17. 

for laborer, 24. 

place of, in dietary, 16. 

replaced by legumes, 17. 
Meats, beef, corned, 89. 

beef, braised, 89. 

flank, with vegetables, 90. 
pot roast, 90. 

Hamburg steak, 91. 

lamb, roast, 91. 

meat balls, Hamburg steak, 91. 
balls with rice, 91. 
loaf, 92. 
pie, 93. 

pie with potato crust, 93. 
scalloped with macaroni, 93. 
stew, 94. 

shoulder, smoked, 94. 
Mendel, Lafayette B., 4, 6, 10, 25. 
Menus, with calculations, 31. 

with caloric values, 15. 

construction of, 9. 

cost of, 22^ 

need for balanced, 22, 

plan of, !$• 

in series, 5. 

for seven weeks, 31. 
Metabolism, basal, 4* 

of boys, 8. 
Method of calculation, 26, 



Milk, 28. 

calorie yield of, 27. 

on cereal, etc, 14. 

for child, 12. 

concealed in other foods, 13. 

money for, 13. 

percentage composition, 27. 

requirement per person, 14. 

substituted for coffee, 14. 
Mineral foods, 114. 
Minimum allowance, German, 3. 

wage for family, 22, 
Molasses candy, 67. 

cost of, 21. 

Morse, 13. 

Mosaic dietary laws, 18. 

National foods correspond, 19. 
Nationality and food, 17. 
Nut loaf, 17. 

Nutrition, physiology of, 2. 
Nuts as protein food, 17. 

Oat wafers, 66. 
Oatmeal cakes, 71. 

macaroons, 66. 

and potato soup, loi. 
Oleomargarine, 12, 18. 
Onions, boiled, 108. 

scalloped, 109. 

Package cereals, 21. 

goods, 21. 
Palatability, by flavor, 8. 
Peach tapioca, 77, 
Peanut butter, 17. 

candy, 68. 
Pea soup, ^lit, 102. 
Peas, 107. 

Percentage composition, 27* 
Physician, 23. 
Physiology of nutrition, 2« 
Plan of breakfast, 15. 

dinner, 15. 

lunch, 15. 

menus, 15. 

supper, 15, 
Potato, baked, X09. 

boiled, 109. 

salad, 95. 

scalloped, no. 
Pot roast, 90. 
Preparation of food, 21. 
Prices, see Cost. 

Problem of food for family, 2, 5. 
Protein, 12 per cent of total calorie 
intake, 6. 



IJO 



INDEX 



Protein foods, 1x4. 

in legumes, 17. 

in nuts, 17. 

need, 2. 

requirement per person, 6» 
Prune jelly, 82. 

loaf, 83. 

sauce, 88. 
Psychological factors, 15. 
Pudding, see Desserts. 
Purchasing, in "chain stores," 20, 21, 

power of forty cents, 4. 

power of two dollars, 9, 

Recipe, analysis of, 27. 

substitution in, 29. 
Recipes, classified list of, 59, 60. 

copied for housewife, 24. 

tested, 3, 25. 
Record for food, 24. 
Rhubarb sauce, 88. 
Rice cakes, 74. 

and cheese, 74. 

pudding, 83. 

in salmon loaf, 86. 

scalloped, 74. 

steamed, 73« 
Richards, Ellen H^ 8, 15, i8. 
Roast lamb (forequarter), 91. 
Rolled oats, 71. 

cakes, 66, 71. 
Rose, Mary Swarts, 30, 125. 
Roughage, 2, 9. 
Rubner, 23, 

Salad dressing, boiled, 112. 

French, 113. 
Salads, lettuce, 95. 

potato, 95. 

vegetable, 95. 
Salmon loaf, 86. 
Sandwiches, 19, 20. 
Saturday baked beans, 16. 
Sauce, apple, 86. 

apricot, 87. 

brown gravy, 96. 

brown sugar syrup, 96* 

butter, 96. 

caramel, 97. 

cheese, 97. 

date and prune, 88. 

hard, 97. 

lemon, 98. 

prune, 88. 

rhubarb, 88. 

tomato, 98. 

white, 99. 



Schereschewsky, 22« 

Science, application of, to life* 1* 

Scientific standards, 6. 
Scotch barley soup, 102. 
Serving, 25. 

standard, 29. 
Seven weeks' menus» 15. 
Sherman, 6, 7, 9* i^* 16, 26. 
Smoked shoulder, 94. 
Soup, barley, without meat, loa. 

bean pur6e, 105. 

cereal, 100. 

chowder, com, 99. 

chowder, fish, loo* 

farina, 100. 

lentil, 1 01. 

oatmeal and potato, lox. 

Scotch barley, 102. 

split pea, 102. 

wheat, 100. 
Spices, 21. 
Spinach, 107. 
Split pea soup, 102. 
Standard measures, 25. 

serving, 29. 
Standards, scientific, 6. 
Starch foods, 114. 
Steak, baked, 90. 

flank, stuffed and baked, 90. 

Hamburg, 91. 

stuffed, 90. 
Stew, baked bean, 104. 

beef, with vegetables, 94. 

lamb, 94. 
Substitution of cheaper foodstuff, 29. 

deficiency after, 16. 

the essential in, i6k 

a factor, 5. 

of milk for coffee, etc., 14. 

for nationality, 17. 

of one dish for another, t6. 

of one menu for another, 15. 

in recipe, 29. 
Substitutes for butter, la. 
Succotash, 1x0. 
Sugar, 28. 

brown, syrup, 96. 

foods, 114. 
Supper, plan of, 15* 
Supplies, conservation of, 22. 

cost of, 115. 

method of purchasing; ao. 

by the pound, 20. 

weights for, 26. 
Syrup, brown sugar, 96, 

Tables, coarerBion, 30. 



INDEX 



131 



Tables of measures and weights, 30. 
Tapioca, apple, 77. 

cream, 79. 

peach, ^^, 
Tea, disuse of, 13. 

recipe, 61. 
Tested recipes, 3. 
Tigerstedt, 7. 
Toast, cream, 112. 
Tomatoes, with beans, 105, 106. 

as flavor, 8. 

fresh, 10. 

sauce, 98. 

scalloped, iii. 
Traditional food, 16. 

Undernourishment, 2, a. 

Unemployment, 22. 

Unit of measure the gram, 26. 

Values for cooked foods, 25. 
Variety, i, 5, 8, 16, 22, 
Vegetable fats, 12, i8. 

hash. III. 

salad, 95. 
Vegetables, 9, 10. 

baked bean loaf, 103. 

baked beans, 103. 

baked bean stew, 104. 

bean loaf, 106. 

bean pur6e, 105. 

beans stewed with tomatoes, 106. 



Vegetables, beet greens, 107. 
beets, 107. 
cabbage, 89, 107. 
carrots and peas, loS. 
lentil hash, 108. 
Lima beans, 104. 

beans, scalloped, los, 
onions, boiled, 108. 

scalloped, 109. 
potato, baked, 109. 

boiled, 109. 

salad, 95. 

scalloped, izo. 
spinach, 107. 
succotash, no. 
tomato, scalloped, in. 
Visiting housekeeper, instructive, 3, 

22^ 23. 
Vitamines, 2, lo. 

Wage, low, inadequate, 22, 
Wages and food, 22. 
Waste, an item of cost, 26. 

by poor preparation, 21. 
Week's total, sufficient, 8. 
Weight, see Measures. 

lost in cooking, 28. 
Wheat soup, loo. 
White sauce, 99. 
Woman, caloric requirement, 7. 
Woodman, i8. 



•l?' 



atoes 



lea 

igh 

e I 

urr 

Be 



DA' 



BRBigt. 



b 

DIM 
Ml 

c ^ 



.4 


1 




Recipe 
Number 


I 




SATURDAY 


SUNDAY 


22 
121 

2 


1 


Corn Meal 

Constants 

Coffee 


18 

121 

2 


1 


Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 



96 



Baked Beans 
Bread 



atoes 



De( 



su! 



88 



70 



1 



Roast Lamb 

(Forequarter) 
Bread 



1 I Beans as Baked Beans 



35 i 1 I Dutch Apple Cake 



Lemon Sauce 



118 I 11 Cream Toast 
I Sliced Banana 

3 Tea 



113 
106 



Potatoes 
Beets 




Chocolate Pudding 



Apricot Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Ginger Cookies 
Tea 



eat 3, Vegetable 5, Dessert 4 ; Supper 6, may not secure the 
ght amount or proportion of food in so limited a dietary. 

While advisable, it is not essential that the days or ntimbers 

used in order; the only dictum is that of using the same 
umbers under a given day, and if changes of days are made, 
e calculation of the menus must be considered, so that in the 

djustment the total average for the week shall meet the food 
quirements of the body. 

"Constants" refer to milk and sugar, bread and butter, 
ed daily for breakfast and grouped together for convenience. 

The food values and amounts are given in the computed 
jcipes. 



I 1 



. f» 



I 

i .. 



-■ I . 



• •! t 



' -J 



i. 



.. '. r ' 



/ 



I'LL/. 



foi uent 

l67Tremont %:;iieet» Boston 






^#9*9*" 








90075 





I 



WORKER 



STERN AND SPITZ 




THE LIBRARY 
OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 




•mics 



UNIVERCT" 



F CALIFORNIA LIB'' 






FOOD for the WORKER 



THE FOOD VALUES AND COST 

OF A SERIES OF MENUS AND RECIPES 

FOR SEVEN WEEKS 



BY 

FRANCES STERN 

AND 

GERTRUDE T. SPITZ 

WITH A FORE WORD BY 

LAFAYETTE B. MENDEL 

Pro/estor o/ Physiological Chtmiitry in the Sheffitld 
Scientific School of Yale University 

LOS ANGELES 

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL 

L'BRARY 




WHITCOMB & BARROWS 
Boston 191 7 

400S0 



Copyright 1917 

By Frances Stern 

Printed April, 1917. Reprinted May, 1917. 



Thomas Todd Co., Printers 
14 Beacon Street, Boston, Massachusetts 



AUTHORS' NOTE 

The original purpose of this volume — to put into available 
form a series of balanced menus for the use of the visiting 
housekeeper — was fostered while one of us (F. S.) was asso- 
ciated with Mr. William H. Pear, of the Boston Provident As- 
sociation. The belief of Dr. William P. Lucas, formerly of the 
Boston Dispensary, and now of the University of California, 
that such standardized menus should be supplied to outpatients, 
was a further incentive, so that eventually it became our aim to 
present in a simple general form a varied dietary of sufficient 
nutritious food at the lowest possible cost. Our dietary, as 
planned, presupposes skillful management or guidance, and has 
been necessarily limited in choice on account of the sm.all 
amount of money that could be allowed for food. In order to 
satisfy the pleasures of the palate, there must be a larger 
income. 

This volume is offered in the hope that it may be suggestive 
in working out the difficult problem of making ends meet. An 
adequate wage or income, however, is the only economic basis 
on which to meet the requirements of life. 

To Miss Winifred Gibbs and other workers in social fields 
of home economics we feel a debt of obligation. Our thanks are 
due to Professor Mendel for his stimulating and friendly ad- 
vice, to Dr. Neuton Stem for helpful criticism, and to Miss 
Alice Bradley, of Miss Farmer's School of Cookery, Boston, 
for reading the recipes. To many of the social service group, 
to members of our immediate families, to all those authorities 
whose publications we have freely consulted, and to others who 
prefer to remain unnamed, we make grateful acknowledgment. 

But above all, from Ellen H. Richards, with whom we both 
have been associated, came the basic stimulus and inspiration 
which directed the thoughts and activities that made possible 
this little volume. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Authors' Note v 

Foreword i 

Introduction 5 

The problem 
The criteria 
Food Requirements 6 

Scientific standards 

Balance 

Basii^of calculation 

Caloric requirements 

Bread 

Butter substitutes 

Milk for children 
Plan of Menus 15 

Substitution of food values 

Variety of food 

Food and nationality 

Man's lunch 

Supplies 20 

Wages and Food 22 

The Instructive Visiting Housekeeper 22 

Values for Cooked Foods 25 

Measures in common use 

Method of calculation 

Analysis and computation of a recipe 
Loss of weight in cooking 
Standard serving 
Substitution 

Conversion Tables 30 

Abbreviations 30 

Menus with Calculations 31 

Recipes — Classified List 59 

Recipes with Calculations and Directions for Cooking . . 61 

Constants 113 

Food GROtn»s 114 

Supplies— ^Amounts and Cost 115 

How to Build and Use a Fireless Cooker 120 

References 123 

Index 126 

Menu Synopsis for Seven Weeks Insert 

vii 



FOREWORD 

In his "Familiar Letters on Chemistry," Liebig wrote more 
than half a century ago: "In choosing his food (when a choice 
is open to him) and in mixing the various articles of diet, man is 
guided by an unerring instinct, which rests on a law of nature. 
"This law prescribes to man, as well as to animals, a pro- 
portion between the plastic and non-nitrogenous constituents 
of his whole diet, which is fixed within certain limits, within 
which it may vary, according to his mode of life and state of 
body. This proportion may, in opposition to the law of nature 
and instinct, be altered beyond these limits by necessity of com- 
pulsion ; but this can never happen without endangering the 
health, and injuring the bodily and mental powers of man. 

"It is the elevated mission of science to bring this law of 
nature home to our minds ; it is her duty to show why man and 
animals require such an admixture in the constituents of their 
food for the support of the vital functions, and what the in- 
fluences are which determine, in accordance with the natural 
law, changes in this admixture." ^ 

The study of the science of nutrition has been vigorously 
prosecuted since the day when this statement was made. In 
recent years the scientific workers in the United States, in par- 
ticular, have contributed largely to the increase in knowledge 
regarding the significant facts of metabolism and other factors 
essential to any adequate conception of the problems of diet. 
The fundamental basis for a rational approach to the food ques- 
tion, in its broadest aspects, is gradually being provided. 

The persistent cultivation of science finds a reward as 
well as an incentive in successful application to the exigencies 
of every-day life. It has long been realized that man is not 
permitted everywhere to give free play to the supposed un- 
even Liebig, Justus: Familiar Letters on Chemistry in its relation to 
Physiology, Dietetics, Agriculture, Commerce, and Polirical Economy. 
London. 1851. pp. 362, 363. 



2 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

erring guide of instinct in matters of diet. Geographical and 
economic conditions place restrictions upon the food supply 
and range of choice ; and experience has taught that both diet- 
ary insufficiencies and inefficiencies, with consequent failures 
of perfect nutrition, can arise even in the so-called nations of 
culture. 

Among the poorer classes, and particularly where indigence 
and indifference go hand in hand, the effects of undernutrition 
are often clearly manifested. Not alone is the working capacity 
of the adults decreased, but the malnutrition of poverty is often 
the companion of more evident diseases. The children of the 
family, in particular, are likely to suffer from the consequences 
of improper feeding. 

The physiology of nutrition at length takes cognizance of 
the total energy requirement ; it recognizes the unique impor- 
tance of the protein needs, though the quantitative aspects of 
this topic are still somewhat debated ; it appreciates the essential 
demand for appropriate inorganic constituents — lime, iron, 
chlorides, etc. — in the diet; it understands the role played by 
the indigestible ingredients, the roughage of the ration ; and 
it attempts to make allowance for those apparently significant 
though undefined food components which are vaguely classed 
as vitamines or food hormones — factors which promote nutri- 
tion and growth in ways yet to be clearly analyzed. 

How to satisfy these varied needs and furnish the indis- 
pensable nutrients in a ration that shall be palatable, digestible, 
liberal in quantity, and still come within the purchasing power 
of the family, is an enormously important problem of applied 
nutrition. Where free selection is possible and abundant sup- 
plies are unrestricted, the management of the situation is not 
so serious. A liberal variety of foods furnished in abundance 
is likely, as a matter of chance, if not also of judgment, to 
afiford a ration adequate in all respects ; though even among the 
well-to-do, free choice is far from being a dependable indicator, 
particularly in the selection of the dietary of growing children, 



FOREWORD 3 

where, for example, the bread-meat-potato-sugar and coffee 
type of meals may fail to provide lime and other special nutri- 
ents found in fresh green vegetables. But when the family 
income is restricted, the problem becomes more serious. How 
a typical family of five may live on ten or twelve dollars a week 
— this question includes the necessity of shelter and clothing, 
but above all, of food. 

The authors of this book have contributed a timely attempt 
at a practical solution of the problem indicated. The more I 
have investigated the difficulties, under present-day conditions, 
of securing adequate nutrition at an average cost of twenty 
cents per day per person, for the families of small earning 
capacity, the more have I been impressed with the immediate 
helpfulness of such essays. It matters little whether these 
dietaries are acceptable in their entirety. The contribution of 
147 menus carefully planned, with tested recipes which are 
the outcome of the direct experience of a visiting house- 
keeper under the conditions that prevail in a large American 
city, is a valuable effort in a somewhat novel direction. Only 
one who has actually attempted, with restricted funds, to pur- 
chase a variety of abundant, suitable, seasonable foods in the 
retail market can thoroughly appreciate the situation. 

Graham Lusk has recently presented the difficulty as fol- 
lows: "According to the German minimum allowance, an 
average family of five (father, mother, and three children) 
would require 11,400 calories in food daily. If the family's 
dietary were based proportionately upon that of the boys' 
school, it would cost as follows (table), provided its food 
supplies were purchased on Second Avenue, New York City : 

TABLE 

Calories Cost in cents 

Total food 11400 

Bread 1500 5 

Butter 1500 IS 

Milk 1500 16 

Sugar 1500 4 

6000 40 



4 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

"Forty cents will buy more than half the family's food 
requirement, at an average cost of 6 cents per thousand calories, 
instead of 14 cents, the average cost at the school. If $25 is 
spent each month for food, 80 cents a day is available, or 
7 cents for a thousand calories. The margin is narrow. 

"It would be well if the family knew that more than half 
its food supply could be had for 40 cents a day, and that this 
bread, butter, milk, and sugar are of equal nutritive value to 
the best the country affords. The remaining 5,400 calories 
could then be bought at a cost of 7 cents per thousand. This 
sum will purchase most of the usual foodstuffs, with the 
exception of meat." ^ 

The tested plans of the authors attempt to provide in a 
practical way for these situations that are arising everywhere. 
An inspection of their tables will indicate at once that there is 
no superfluity of food, no undue excess of calories suggested. 
Minimum conditions do not furnish maximum allowances. The 
suggestions must be judged in the light of the necessities clearly 
postulated by the authors. One might argue that the measure 
of protein is rather small, particularly for working and grow- 
ing individuals. In the light of Gephart's recent observations on 
schoolboys, as well as the newer studies of DuBois on the basal 
metabolism of children, the food needs of active adolescent 
persons are apparently larger than is generally assumed. Intel- 
ligent application of certain provisions suggested in the text is 
expected to increase somewhat the purchasing power of the 
limited income and provide more food ; and without some 
degree of intelligence on the part of the family in such a situa- 
tion, the need of experienced advice is the greater. The authors 
have undertaken a useful task, with an intelligent appreciation 
of both its moment and its tentative limitations. 

Lafayette B. Mendel. 

September, 1916. 

^Lusk, G. : Food Economics, Journal Washington Academy Sciences. 
1916, vi, 392. 



INTRODUCTION 

How can sufficient nutritious food be supplied to the family „ . j^ 
at the lowest cost ? 

This vital question constantly confronts physicians and 
social workers who are serving families struggling to sustain 
life on small incomes and Hmited training. 

Our contribution towards answering the question is this 
series of menus, with food values and costs for a period of seven 
weeks. They serve as a working basis for the food supply of 
the family. No attempt has been made to discuss the economics 
of such conditions as transportation, storage, distribution, etc., 
which affect the cost of the food supply. The individual cannot 
control these influences ; they need the study and action of the 
larger groups. 

Five factors have been considered, separately and collec- Factors 
tively, in planning these menus : 

1. Availability of data for practical purposes. 

2. A series of menus and recipes, with the calculations 

of the food values and costs. 

3. Variety of food and substitution of food values. 

4. Cost per se and in relation to the income. 

5. Instruction of the homemaker. 

Since the reliable tables of Atwater and Bryant appeared, Availability 
many data in reference to the subject have been published as a of Data 
result of experiments by scientists in the government service, 
by universities, hospitals, and laboratories, by teachers in 
schools, and by social workers as a result of their experience. 
The material, however, was not in form available for practical 
use by those engaged in social service in the homes. To obtain 
this material required the gathering of many books and pam- 
phlets, for there has not been brought together a series of 
menus covering several weeks, with food values, cost, and 

5 



6 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

determined amounts of food. We have compiled the requisite 
data, using as a groundwork the generally acknowledged 
standards of scientists and our knowledge gained through 
working in families of limited incomes. 

FOOD REQUIREMENTS 

"The calorie-idea in nutrition," says Professor Mendel, 
"the outcome of an understanding of the transformation of 
energy in the living body, has been fruitful in more ways than 
one. It has taught people to think of the uses of food from 
a more rational standpoint, and has furnished an intelligible 
basis for constructive institutional dietetics as well as the nutri- 
tion of the individual. Food is beginning to be regarded as 
fuel for the human organism — something that must be pro- 
vided in determinable amounts. Malnutrition and undernutri- 
tion have received a new popular significance in the discussion 
of human efficiency." ^ 
Size of The food supply has been estimated for an average family 
Family Qf f^yg . nian, woman, and three children, ranging from eight to 
sixteen years of age. 
Scientific We have taken as our standard for the maintenance of such 
Standards ^ normal family in health, the food requirements sanctioned by 
physiological chemists : 75 grams of protein,^ 50 grams of fat, 
400 to 500 grams of carbohydrates, yielding 2,500 calories per 
person per day — a total of 12,500 calories per day for five 
people. The protein is about 12 per cent of the total caloric 
intake, a sufficient amount according to Lusk. This basis of 
12,500 calories per day, with 1,500 calories, or 375 grams, of 
protein, permits the dietary to be used for families of varying 
ages and occupations. The food requirements will increase or 

'Mendel: Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press, New York. 1916. p. 49. 

°" Where a low protein diet is desired, either for physiological or eco- 
nomical reasons, we would suggest an allowance of about 75 grams protein 
per man per day." Sherman : Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Macmillan, 
New York. 1911. p. 228. 



Balance 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 7 

decrease from the norm of 2,500 calories, according to the age, 
sex, and activity of the individual, and consequently the cost 
will vary in proportion. 

A family with children permits a larger amount for the Basis of 
man of the household than one of all adults. Our dietary would Calcuteticm 
supply five women at moderate activity or four men at light 
muscular work, or it would furnish a widow with six children, 
ranging in ages from two to sixteen years, sufficient nutriment. 

Tables compiled from various sources, according to age and 
activity, show the caloric intake to be as follows : 



CALORIC REQUIREMENTS OF CHILDHOOD, ADOLES- 
CENCE, AND ADULT LIFE 

Table 1 



Age 

1 year 

2 years 

2 to 4 years 
5 to 6 
7 to 10 
11 to 14 
15 to 16 
17 to 18 



Calories 

950 
1100 
1300 
1400 
1500 
1600 
2100 
2250 



Calculations from 



Holt and Sherman 



Camerer 



Table 2 



Occupation 

Clerk at desk 

Sales clerk, machinery 

house worker 

Light muscular work 

Carpenter, mason 

Farmer 

Excavator 



watcher. 



Calories Calculations from 

2250 Atwater and Bryant 

2500 Lusk 

2800 Atwater and Bryant 

3200 Tigerstedt 

3500 Lusk 

4000 Tigerstedt 



We might assume the family of five to be provided for as 

follows : 

Man 3500 calories per day 

Woman 2500 " " " 

Boy (12 years) 2500 " " " 

Girl (16 years) 2250 " " " 

Child (8 years) 1750 " " " 



Total 



12500 



8 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

In view of the recent investigations of DuBois and of Gephart 
that growing boys have a basal requirement above that of adults, 
we have arranged the above table so as to provide more food 
than the computations from Tables i and 2 demand. The 
figures are not arbitrary, and active, growing children must be 
provided sufficient nourishment. The tables serve, however, 
as a guide to the approximate number of calories required. 

" It is not always necessary or wise to so plan the food that 
on each day of the week an exact proportion of the various 
constituents be maintained, but each week's total should be 
nearly the theoretical amount." ^ 

Supplies must not only provide sufficient amounts for the 
bodily requirements of protein, fats, and carbohydrates, but 
allowance must be made to satisfy the desire for variety. It 
was said of a set of menus planned at a cost of $4.61 per week, 
"that while it gives enough strength, it does not give enough 
variety to keep the family well for a long time." ^ 
PalatabilitT ^"^ ^^^ °^ securing variety and zest in the food is by 
the use of flavors. In our menus, for instance, tomatoes are 
used abundantly for this purpose. While they are almost value- 
less for nourishment, they serve as an accessory to cheap foods 
of high food value but little flavor, making it possible to serve 
them in a palatable form. 
The From the foregoing tables of caloric requirements, it appears 
Two Dollar that it is quite impossible to provide sufficient and proper food 
Order ^°^ ^ family of five with the two dollars per week allowed for 
a "grocery order" by some relief agencies. Under the direc- 
tion of the head of the Department of Household Economics, 
college students selected foods of the highest nutritive quality 
from the supplies permitted by such a grocery order. Food 
values were calculated and yielded only 1,891 calories per day 
per person, with 55 grams of protein ; a total of 66,200 calories 

^Richards: Dietary Computer. John Wiley & Sons, New York. 1902. 
P- 5- 

^Gibbs : Lessons in the Proper Feeding of the Family. New York Asso- 
ciation for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New York. 191 1. p. 10. 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 9 

per week for the whole family. A list of the foods shows that 
it is impossible to arrange an adequate dietary from such a 
narrow choice. 

TWO DOLLAR GROCERY ORDER' 



Material 

18 lbs. flour 

2 qts. beans . . . . 

1 pk. potatoes . . 

2 lbs. corn meal 
4 " oatmeal . . 

1 " salt cod . . 

2 " salt pork . 
2 " sugar . . . . 

1 qt. molasses . . 
i lb. cocoa 

2 yeast cakes . . . 

Total ... 



Cost 


Fuel Value 


Dollars 


Calories 


$ .72 


28900 


.24 


5900 


.14 


4600 


.06 


3200 


.18 


7200 


.10 


500 


.20 


7200 


.13 


3600 


.07 


4000 


.12 


1100 


.04 





$2.00 



66200 



In constructing the menus submitted, we first selected low- Method of 
cost foods of high nutritive value, planned from them meals Construction 
which would satisfy the palate and also fulfill the necessary 
requirements of a balanced menu, and then, last of all, computed 
the cost. 

Ash constituents, such as sulphur, phosphorus, calcium, ^^j^ 
iron, etc., are furnished in milk, eggs, whole grains, peas, beans, 
green vegetables, and fruits. These are included in the daily 
diet in sufficient amount to meet the physiological requirements.^ 

Roughage, or bulk, necessary for the action of the intestines. Roughage 
is secured by such vegetable material as the cellulose of cabbage, 

'This order was calculated by students at Simmons College, under 
Dr. Alice F. Blood. See pamphlet prepared under the auspices of the New 
England Home Economics Association, Boston, Mass. February, 1916. p. 3. 

Graham Lusk, in a recent personal note, advocated the "arranging of 
10,000 or 12,000 caloric baskets, purchasable at various prices, varying in 
contents daily throughout the week. Grocers could put them up for families. 
Delicacies could then be extra." The above grocery order yields only 
9,457 calories per day for a family of five. 

^Sherman: Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Table of Ash Constit- 
uents of Foods in Percentage of the Edible Portion (compiled from various 
sources), Macmillan, New York. 191 1. p. 332. 



10 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

lettuce, spinach, tomatoes, beans and peas with their hulls, 
onions, cereals, fresh and dried fruits. 
Vitamines Besides the acknowledged food constituents discussed above, 
it is understood that there exists in food certain activating 
principles generally known as vitamines. 

"There is a well-founded growing belief that an impor- 
tant part in nutrition is played by substances which are not 
identical with the familiar foodstuffs mentioned, and which, 
despite the minimal amounts thereof present in the diet, may 
nevertheless be indispensable for growth and the mainte- 
nance of life. They have been called 'accessory diet factors/ 
'vitamines,' or 'food hormones.' We may conceive of them as 
stimulating certain physiological processes and as essential 
to certain functions." ^ 

They have a peculiar usefulness and are quite as essential 
to the diet as the better known energy requirements. As some 
of them are impaired by heat and others are lost in the wastes of 
the modern technical processes of food manufacture, care must 
be taken not to substitute entirely canned or preserved fruits 
and vegetables for fresh products, or cereals produced by too 
refined a method. The varied diet, with fresh fruit, fresh vege- 
tables, milk, eggs, meat, and whole grain, supplies this demand. 
A "1 bTtv ^^^ vegetables prescribed in our dietary have been largely 
of Fresh the winter variety or canned vegetables. We hope, however, 

Fruit and ^|^^^ when the price is low, fresh vegetables will be used. For 
Vegetables ^ ° 

at Different example, when 2^ pounds of fresh tomatoes can be purchased 

Seasons of ^^ ^j^^ price of I can of tomatoes, the fresh vegetable should 
the Year ^ 

always be used. But if the price of the fresh tomatoes is higher, 

it will be impossible to use them and keep within the prescribed 

limits of cost. A similar principle should be applied to fruits. 

The dietary calls for much dried fruit, but when the price of 

fresh fruit supplies a like food value for the same amount 

of money, it should always be used by preference. A peck or 

* Mendel: Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press. 1916. p. 49 ff. 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS ii 

12 pounds of fresh apples is equivalent in food value to 2 pounds 
of dried apples. When 4 quarts or 6 pounds of fresh apples 
can be purchased for the same price as i pound of dried apples, 
at 12 cents, the fresh fruit should be used instead of the dried. 
We have used fresh apples in these menus, however, when 
they cost 20 cents for 4 quarts, believing at this price it was 
preferable to use fresh fruit for the additional advantages thus 
obtained for the diet. 

Bread 

Throughout the dietary, computations have been based on 
the use of baker's bread instead of homemade bread. This has 
been done for two reasons, the second of which is more impor- 
tant — and is a corollary of the first. 

First. Many families buy baker's bread, and consequently Rg^gong 
our dietary could be more easily adjusted to the families until for Use 
they were educated to bake bread in their homes. g d ^"^ ^ 

Second. If our computations were based on homemade 
bread and the family actually used baker's bread, the total food 
values of the dietary would fall below the body requirements 
and the cost would be increased, because much of the baker's 
bread gives a smaller value than homemade bread, and there- gread 
fore the cost is greater. By baking the bread at home, the 
required food value for the bread is surely obtained at less 
expense than by baker's bread. ^ 

Where the flour is bought by the bag, the supply may give 
out during the week, perhaps ten days after the purchase. 
Frequently money is not available for a new supply until the 
next pay day, leaving a certain number of days when bakery 
products are purchased at an increased expenditure or at a 
comparatively lowered food value. 

A recent experiment shows how a relief organization may 
obviate this difficulty. Usually the relief organization gives a 
certain amount either in actual groceries or money. The Boston 

'Condit and Long: How to Cook and Why. Harper & Bros., New York 
and London. 1914. p. 44. 



12 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

Provident Association, however, advanced to the grocer the 
money for half a barrel of flour and deducted from the regular 
amount given to the family for supplies the sum of 50 cents 
each week, which went towards the payment of the flour, thus 
insuring a continuous supply. 

Although our dietary is figured on the basis of the use of 
baker's bread, for economic reasons we recommend the use 
of homemade bread, cakes, and cookies wherever this is possible. 

Butter The composition of the fats varies from 83 per cent fat in 
Substitutes oleomargarine to 100 per cent fat in lard and cottolene. Where 
our recipes and menus call for "oleo" or a butter substitute, 
we have taken the food value of butter (85 per cent fat), 
although the price quoted is that of the cheaper shortening. 
This has seemed a fair average analysis. The substitution of 
any other fat will hardly lessen the nutritive value of the dietary, 
although the use of butter itself will increase the cost consider- 
ably. These substitutes have approximately the same degree 
of digestibility as butter, though they lack the flavor. They are 
used throughout the recipes on account of the reduction in cost. 
The prices quoted are those for the best quality of oleomar- 
garine at 24 cents for eating purposes, and any of the vegetable 
fats — corn or cottonseed — at 16 cents per pound for cooking. 
Suet and beef drippings have also been used for cooking. 

Milk for Children 
Necessity of We have not attempted in our dietary to meet the varying 

Milk for requirements of children, as it is practically impossible to plan 
Growing Child 

for the daily amount of milk which the growing child needs, 

and to adjust this amount of milk to our dietary without undue 
and confusing repetition of figures and tables. We recognize, 
however, the necessity of milk for the growing child, and believe 
if there is a young child in the family that milk must be pro- 
vided. Such well-known authorities as Sherman and as Hunt 
advocate "a quart of milk a day" because of "its many advan- 



FOOD REQUIREMENTS 13 

tages as a 'tissue-building' and 'growth-promoting' food." 
After the child is two years old, according to Morse, it should 
"not take over a quart of milk daily. More than this is likely 
to take away its appetite for other food, which is more neces- 
sary for it." Miss Hunt states that this food can be given as a 
beverage, or served on cereals, or in the form of bread and 
milk. " It may also be served in soups, gravies, custards, junket, 
and other puddings, and may be used in the place of water in 
cooking cereals." We have not planned our menus for this 
child who requires a quart of milk daily, but if there is such 
a child in the family, he should have this kind of food. A quart 
of milk yields 695 calories at a cost of 10 cents per quart. The 
food requirements of a child four to six years old are 1,400 
calories. Besides the food value furnished by this quart of 
milk, he must have 705 calories of additional food. As our 
dietary provides food at the approximate cost of 0.8 of a cent 
per cai©**©f the child's dietary consisting of milk and other food 
will cost about 16 cents per day. 

It is interesting to note how, by attention to details, it is Disuse of 

possible to arrange our dietary in such a way that two-thirds ^°^^^ ^""^ 
^ ^ • J • Tea Saves 

of a quart of milk a day can be provided for one child m our Money for 

family of five without additional cost. Our menus give coffee Milk 

every day and tea about five times a week. If there are children 

in the family and only the two adults drink cofifee, the cost 

saved per week on this beverage by the other three members 

of a family of five is approximately 2.1 cents per day, or 

15 cents per week (.7X3X7= H-?)- This money will 

purchase 3 pints of milk per week. 

The cost saved on the milk and sugar used in this amount 
of coffee is approximately 9 cents per week (.42 X 3 X 7 = 
8.82) . This money will purchase approximately 2 pints of milk 
per week. 

Sufficient money is therefore released, if three members of 
the family do not take coffee, milk and sugar, to purchase 
5 pints of milk per week, a total of 10 eight-ounce glasses of 



14 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

milk, or 1 1 glasses a day, for any child requiring it. [One quart 
of milk furnishes 695 calories, or 175 calories for each eight- 
ounce glass. As it is impracticable to serve, at the table, a glass 
brimful of fluid, we have assumed that a glass of milk as ordi- 
narily served contains only 158 calories (220 grams), or that 
each quart of milk provides about 4^ of these glasses.] 

The amount saved by not using tea in the projected dietary 
is not so large as that saved by the omission of cofifee, but it is 
nevertheless sufficient to aid in the purchase of additional milk. 
Tea is served for supper on an average of five times a week 
at a cost of .13 cents a cup. If only the parents drink it, the 
saving on the other three members of the family will be 
1.95 cents (.13 X 3 X 5) for tea. For milk and sugar it 
will be 6.30 (.42 X 3 X 5)> or a total of 8 cents per week 
saved on tea, milk and sugar ( i .95 -)- 6.30 =: 8.25 ) . This 
will purchase i^ pints of milk per week, or about ^ glass per 
day. 

The amount of monev released by the three members of the 
Disuse of _ ' 

Tea and family not using tea and coffee and their accessories is 31 cents 

Coffee pgj. -y^eek (14.70 + 8.25 = 31-77), enough money to purchase 

Substitution 3 quarts of milk per week at 10 cents a quart. This furnishes 

of 2 Glasses approximately 2 glasses per day for drinking purposes. 

If these three younger members of the family do not drink 

coffee or tea, and consequently do not use the milk and sugar 

served with these beverages, they are not receiving as much 

food as is supplied in our menus. The young child, however, 

who is drinking the two additional glasses of milk will not 

require the main dinner dish. This can be divided between the 

two older children not taking any beverage, and the balance 

for all will be maintained. 

Milk on O'^'" dietary allows ^ of a glass of milk for the breakfast 

Cereal and in cereal for each person, and an average of f of a glass for the 

Furnishes preparation of food per day per person. In other words, a little 

1 Glass less than 2 quarts of milk are used for each person each week 

in the menus as arranged. 



PLAN OF MENUS 15 

The 3 quarts of milk that can be purchased per week by the 
money released from tea, coffee, and accessories, together with 
the 2 quarts provided in the dietary, make available for the 
young child 5 quarts of milk per week. This allows him an 
average of 3 glasses per day as beverage or in the food. 

PLAN OF MENUS 

The danger of giving definite menus, said Ellen H. Richards, 
is that the whole is often relegated to the dump heap if a part is 
refused. However, these menus as submitted are intended to be 
guides rather than fixed diets, though they may be used as such. 

The day's menus are planned as follows : 

Breakfast consists of i portion of cereal, with 4 tablespoons- „. . 
ful of milk and 3 teaspoonsful of sugar; 2 slices, f-inch thick, Menus 
of bread, with i teaspoonful of "oleo" for each slice; i cup 
of cofifee, with 2 tablespoons ful of milk and 2 teaspoonsful of 
sugar. 

Dinner consists of a nutritive thick soup, or meat, or meat 
substitute (which is a dish of the equivalent protein values, as 
in macaroni and cheese) ; some starchy vegetable or bread; 
usually a green vegetable or salad ; a pudding or other dessert. 

Lunch or Supper consists of stewed fruit or jelly; cake, 
bread and "oleo," and a beverage. (A dis'cussion of lunch for 
the man will be found on page 19.) 

The complete dietary in this book gives 49 days' menus, Seven 
covering a period of 7 weeks, and the menus are so arranged Weeks' 
that no two days are the same. The food values for each chem- Caioric Value 
ical component of the food and the total caloric values are for Each Day 
given for each day, so that the totals of one day may be easily 
compared with those of another, and one day's diet may be 
substituted for another. Such an arrangement for substituting 
one whole day's menu for another, without disturbance of food 
values, is of great importance, inasmuch as it provides for 
personal tastes and distastes — psychological factors that must 
be reckoned with. Substitution of single dishes is more diffi- 

LOS ANGELES 
STATE NORMAL SCHOOL 
. 1 IBRARY 



i6 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

cult, for, except in certain cases where the chemical and caloric 
values of the two dishes are approximately the same, the balance 
and totals for the day are likely to be disturbed. 
Allows There is no reason, however, why free substitution of one 
Substitution dish for another should not be made — provided that the food 
for Another values are recalculated and any deficiency supplied. The one 
essential for satisfactory substitution is that the weekly totals 
for protein and calories must average at or above the normal 
requirements of 75 grams of protein and 2,500 calories per 
person per day. If the totals of fat and carbohydrates average 
less than the standards of 50 grams and 400-500 grams, respec- 
tively, per person per day, the deficiency, if not too great, may 
be made up by the use of extra "oleo" and extra sugar in raw 
or cooked form, at a small additional cost. 
y . To obviate monotony in the diet, the same dinner dish does 

not occur in the same week or the same day of other weeks. 
This does not mean, however, that if a particular dish is desired 
it should not be used repeatedly, as the traditional fish on 
Friday and baked beans on Saturday. 
Choice '^^^ choice of foods which would allow variety is limited 
\ by the low cost of the dietary. 

Place of Meat is the most expensive item in the food budget, but 
Meat is the it has these advantages, that it satisfies the palate, is easily 
•etjary ^^^qJ^^^^^ ^^^ meets the needs of the protein requirements. These 
qualities balance its high cost, and if the price is not excessive, 
that is, out of proportion to the other foods, its use is advisable. 
We have spent for meat about one-seventh of the total amount 
expended for supplies. Many families spend one-third, which 
is too large a proportion. Sherman says that "when one-sixth 
instead of one-third of the total expenditure for food is for 
meat, the dietary is usually both more economical and better 
balanced." ^ By decreasing the expenditure for meats, vege- 
tables and fruits may be used more freely. 

^Sherman: Food Products. Macmillan, New York. igiS- Place of 
Meat in the Diet, p. 212. Composition of Legumes, p. 312. The Place of 
Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet, p. 346. 



PLAN OF MENUS 17 

A method by which a small amount of meat may serve to g ^ 
give variety is indicated by employing the principle of the of Meat 
"extension of flavor,"^ combining the meat with the less ex- '^'^"*^°'' 
pensive foodstuffs, such as rice, macaroni, and potatoes, in 
scalloped meat (Recipes Nos. ^2, and 76) or meat pies (Recipes 
Nos. 74 and 75). 

Meat for dinner is often replaced entirely by other protein Ledun,es ^g 
bearing dishes. The legumes are of high protein content, and Protein 
most of them show a high percentage of carbohydrates and in °° 
general are of higher food value than meat. 

Nuts also contain a large percentage of protein and can be 
used in combination with other foods — most advantageously protejn 
with bread, crackers, fruit, vegetables, milk — but they should Food 
form a part of the diet and not supplement a meal. They have 
not been used in this dietary except as peanut candy for dessert, 
though they can be used as a meat substitute in the form of a 
"nut loaf." There is no economy, however, as the cost will be 
equal to that of a meat dish. Peanut butter, which may be used 
for supper or luncheon on bread, costs per ounce 2.5 cents in 
package, .8 cent in bulk, giving 167 calories, with 9 grams 
of protein. 

The meals are of the kinds that are served in American ppo^ ^^d 
homes. In one series of menus it would be impossible to meet Nationality 
the desires and tastes of all nationalities, but these can be met 
if time is taken to figure out the food value of the "foreign" 
dish. The foodstuffs are practically the same as those that enter 
into our recipes, and their food values may be obtained from 
our recipes. They may then be substituted according to the 
method outlined above. 

For example, the ingredients meat, macaroni or rice, and 
vegetables would probably be utilized as follows by housewives 
of varying nationalities : 

An American housewife would serve from them a scalloped 

meat pie, with macaroni and the vegetable as a side dish. 

'Langworthy and Hunt: Economical Use of Meat in the Home. Farm- 
ers' Bulletin No. 391, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, 1910, 



i8 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

The Jewish housewife would first use the meat to make 
soup stock, and then braise the meat with onions, bay leaves, 
garlic, and tomatoes. Noodles instead of macaroni would be 
put into the soup, and the vegetables would be cooked either 
with the soup or with the meat, adding to the flavor of the 
latter. 

The Italian housewife would cook the ingredients in about 
the same way, using the vegetables in the soup and adding a 
dash of cheese. The meat would be made into cakes with some 
of the vegetables, well seasoned with peppers, onions, herbs, 
and spices, to make up for the extractives lost in cooking. These 
cakes might be cooked again in the broth. 

In planning for the Orthodox Jews, the dietary laws must 
be considered. The milk desserts for dinner should be inter- 
changed with the fruit sauces for supper if the main dinner 
dish is meat. The use of a vegetable fat for shortening in the 
other desserts would make them allowable with the meat, and 
if milk is a required ingredient, water could replace it. Butter 
should be served instead of ''oleo" on the bread, and in the 
cooking the "oleo" should be replaced by a vegetable fat, as 
its use on account of its ingredients would be prohibited by the 
Mosaic dietary laws. " The raw materials used in the manufac- 
ture of oleomargarine are 'oleo oil,' which is mainly the olein 
of beef fat, neutral lard, and cottonseed oil, together with 
smaller amounts of butter and cream or milk." ^ Any loss from 
substitution can readily be adjusted, as the difference in food 
values is so slight. 

"In each land there are half a dozen foods which may be 
substituted for as many known by different names in other 
lands. Food synonyms, they might be termed." - Some of the 
typical dishes of different nationalities that approximate each 
other are : 



* Woodman: Food Analysis. McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. 1915. 
p. 214. 

-Richards: The Cost of Foods. A Study in Dietaries. John Wiley & 
Sons, New York. 1908. p. 91. 



PLAN OF MENUS 



19 



American 

Vegetable soup 
Lentil soup 
Cereal soup 
Fish chowder 
Rice and cheese 
Macaroni 
Indian meal 
Stufifed fish 
Scalloped meat, mac- 
aroni, and tomatoes 
Creamed onions 

Braised stufifed meat, 

with vegetables 
Meat balls with rice 
Spinach 
Baked beans 
Vegetable salad 

Prune loaf 

Griddle cakes 
Apple pudding 
Gingerbread 
Apple sauce 



Jewish or German 

Gemiisesuppe 
Linsensuppe 
Griesmehlsuppe 
Milchige Fisch 
Nudeln und Kase 
Nudeln 



Italian 

Minestrone 

Brodo di Lenticchie 

Minestra 

Zuppa di Merluzzo 

Riso in Bianco 

Maccheroni 

Polenta 

Gefiilte Fisch 

Maccheroni al sugo di Gehacktes Fleisch und 

Carne Nudeln 

Onions "alia Parme- 

giana" 

Polpettone "alia Na- Eingedampfte Fleisch 

politana" und Gemiise 

Risotto "alia Nostrale" Fricadellen 

Verdura boUita Spinat 

Faginoli Graupen und Erbsen 

Insalata "alia Mace- ItaHenische Salat 

doine" 

Dampfnudeln und ge- 

kochte Swetzchen 

Fritelli Pfannkuchen 

Aepfelcharlotte 

Lebkuchen 

Frutta cotta Aepfelbrei 



The man usually eats lunch away from home. The dinner, ^, 

Man's 
if served to the family in the middle of the day, may be kept Lunch 

for him and warmed over, or a portion may be kept out to be 

cooked, if it is a "quick" dish; or the noon dinner may 

be changed to an evening meal for the family. The man's lunch 

will consist of about the same food as the supper: fruit, cake, 

bread and "oleo," and a hot drink. This will meet the proper 

food requirements, but it may not satisfy him unless he has 

for his bread some filling to make a sandwich of meat, cheese, 

eggs, peanut butter, sardines, or baked beans. If the slice of 

bread, weighing 75 grams, is too thick (f of an inch) to make 

attractive sandwiches, it may be cut half as thick. This means 

one sandwich for one slice of bread and two sandwiches where 

two slices are given in the menu. As the man will want at 



20 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

least two sandwiches, unless two slices of bread are served for 
supper in our menu, he will require extra bread at a cost of 
.01 15 cents. If homemade bread is used instead of baker's bread, 
enough money will be saved on the total dietary to include not 
only this sandwich bread, but the sandwich filling as well. If 
o . . , meat is used for the filling, an extra amount may be bought 
for the dinner the day before (about 5 of a pound) at an addi- 
tional cost of about 5 cents, and this will provide an extra 
serving to be utilized for the sandwich. Chopped meat as well 
as the roast furnishes a good sandwich filling, and cold fish, if 
mixed with boiled dressing, is occasionally relished. If filling 
for sandwiches is bought, the additional cost will vary approxi- 
mately from 2 to 5 cents. 

SUPPLIES 

The cost of weekly supplies is influenced by the methods 
of purchasing, by the care and preparation of the food, and by 
the variety needed. The cost will vary somewhat with year, 
season, and place. 
Methods of ^^^^ personal factor operates largely, and skill in purchasing 
Purchasing depends upon the managing ability of the homemaker. It is 
quite possible for her to take advantage of sales, to judge the 
best piece of meat for her purpose, to get all the trimmings, 
and even the extra pieces of fat and bone, as is the custom in 
some shops. It is advisable to buy staple goods in larger 
amounts, if a saving in time or money is thereby accomplished 
and she has space for storage. 
Buy by ^^^ supplies have been planned so that a fraction of a pound 
the of any food material — the price being in odd cents — will not 
have to be purchased at a loss of a cent. This obviates the 
practice of spending 5 cents for half a pound of an article cost- 
ing 9 cents per pound, or of sending to the store for 3 cents' 
worth of tea, or 5 cents' worth of butter, or 10 cents' worth of 
meat. We consider it advisable to buy flour by the barrel if 
space permits (or half barrel, because of the less space it occu- 



SUPPLIES 21 

pies) instead of by the bag, for the reasons stated in the dis- 
cussion of Bread (p. 1 1 ) . Under no circumstances should flour 
be purchased by the pound, as its cost is increased very mark- 
edly — as much as i cent per pound. A striking example of the 
increased cost of articles purchased in small amounts is illus- 
trated by molasses, which sells for 14 cents if bought by the 
quart. A gallon, however, can be purchased for 43 cents — a 
saving of 13 cents — almost enough for another quart. 

The initial cost of food that must be bought in package, 
that is used only at intervals and lasts over a long period, 
increases the weekly amount expended out of proportion to 
the actual consumption of the food for that week. Junket, for 
example, is used in our menus twice during the seven weeks, 
requiring only two of the ten tablets purchased. Spices bought 
by the ^ pound will be sufficient for several months. 

Our purchases have been made at the lowest cost of an 
article at the large grocers' or "chain stores." It is possible 
that a small local store would charge a cent or two more. We 
have always purchased a good grade ; for example, a cream 
of tartar baking powder at 21 cents a half pound, while it is 
possible to purchase a half pound (not cream of tartar) for 
10 cents. 

The cost of the dietary is increased by some of the package p . . 
cereals, such as farina, cream of wheat, and shredded wheat. Cereals 
To keep the dietary at the lowest cost, only those cereals that 
can be bought in bulk should be used, such as corn meal, rolled 
oats, hominy, and cracked wheat ; but care should be taken that 
these are bought in clean and reliable stores. Our experience 
has shown that to establish the cereal habit in families one has 
often to allow, at least for the period of education, the use of 
those cereals preferred by the family, even if they are more 
expensive. Some of the menus were planned with this thought 
in mind. 

The homemaker must have enough skill to avoid waste of preparati 
food by poor preparation, in order to keep the expenditures 



22 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

down to the required economy. All the food must be eaten to 
assure the family sufficient and proper nutriment. 
Conservation The week's supplies must be carefully conserved, only being 
_o* used when the menus call for them and in the amounts required 
by the recipes. Otherwise they will be exhausted before the 
week is up. Fruit, crackers, etc., as they stand on the shelves, 
are a temptation which must be resisted. 

WAGES AND FOOD 

It has been estimated that between $800 and $900 a year 
is the minimum figure at which a decent and efficient standard 
of living can be maintained for the typical family of five. 
Relation of ^^ ^ recent study by Schereschewsky, it was found that in 
Cost of the group whose income was $500 or less, under-nonrishment 
J °° and sickness were twice as great as in the groups earning $700 
to $900. An average wage of an unskilled laborer is $12 per 
week, or $624 per year, if he is continuously employed. The 
man who earns this income, however, is on the average un- 
employed eight weeks out of the fifty-two. This period of 
unemployment without pay reduces his annual income to $528. 
The cost of our menu is $364 a year — an extremely conservative 
estimate. Lower estimates are possible, but fail to allow for 
one of our essential considerations — variety. The cost of our 
menu is 69 per cent of an income of $528 per annum, and if we 
allow $144 per year for rent, a fair average, only $20 remains 
for all other needs of life for the family of five, such as fuel, 
light, clothing, car fares, insurance, medicine and recreation. 
Inadequacy ^o supply adequate food and other necessaries of life, a 
of the Low larger income must be provided, either by increased wages 
or by some form of relief. 

THE INSTRUCTIVE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER 

The Instructive Visiting Housekeeper is the logical teacher 
in the home in the scheme of modern social service. Her prac- 
tical instruction in homemaking can save the time and energy 



THE INSTRUCTIVE VISITING HOUSEKEEPER 23 

of the workers in medical, relief, social, and educational fields ^^^^ 
in their specific tasks. The need for a series of menus and for Balanced 
recipes giving food values and costs was made evident to one 
of the writers in daily work as an Instructive Visiting House- 
keeper. She had charge of families who were assisted by both 
medical and relief organizations. 

The unskilled housewife needs to be taught to plan her Housekeeper 
meals and to use her meager income to better advantage in to Leam 
order to feed her family properly. It rests upon the visitor 
to give specific directions as to amount, preparation and cost of 
the food, and to calculate the prescribed diet so that the family 
will be assured of the required nutriment in a dietary limited 
by small means. 

The physician's advice that the patient should have a suffi- instructive 
cient nutritious diet needs to be supplemented by the service Visitmg 
of a worker in the home, to give the housewife lessons in proper j^ Teach 
feeding, if new standards of living are to be established. Diet 
slips, while helpful, serve merely as suggestions, and to con- 
struct a dietary therefrom requires deduction, too difficult for 
the untrained mind. Some doctors believe that standardized 
menus and recipes should be supplied to the patients as well as 
diet slips. 

The personal equation of the family, however, must be con- 
sidered, for great difficulty is often experienced in inducing 
people to eat food against which they have a prejudice or which 
is unfamiliar to them. The parents may be influenced to par- 
take of such food because of the advantage in decreasing 
the cost of living, but the children are not persuaded by this 
argument. 

Changes in the diet of families, however, can only be made q, 
gradually, by persuasion and understanding on the part of the in Diet 
social worker, and by interest and faith on the part of the family. 

Professor Rubner says:^ "The industrial worker coming 
from the country to the city does not want proteid leguminous 

^Rubner: The Nutrition of the People, Transactions of Fifteenth Inter- 
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography, Washington. 19 12. I, 395. 



24 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

food, milk, etc., to improve his vegetable diet ; he wants simply 
meat, not because he needs it, but because for him it is a matter 
of pride to follow as best he can the other classes in his diet. 
The difficulty is that the cost of meat is considerably higher 
than in the country." 

The traditional dietary of the foreigner must be carefully 
analyzed to retain its good points as well as to show its short- 
comings. The new one must present these deficiencies corrected, 
with evident improvement upon the old one. 

Menus and recipes may be copied for the untrained house- 
wife without the statement of the food values. We have found 
the practice of giving a few recipes at a time has proved 
successful, as the homemaker is usually interested in the par- 
ticular food or recipe being considered, not in the study of 
Record ^ whole bookful. It is well to keep some kind of a food record, 
so that the family can submit each week's consumption of food 
to the dispensary or elsewhere. The woman's offhand narrative 
is usually not dependable. While some regular form of record is 
advisable, it is not necessary, a penny notebook sufficing. 

As previously stated, these menus are to serve only as guides. 
The value of the publication of the computations with which 
to work lies in their use as a basis for the special needs of each 
worker, saving her much time and labor. 

The relief organization, by cooperation with the medical 
agencies, often makes possible the raising of the standards of 
living, for poverty and disease are closely allied. Families need- 
ing assistance often have depleted incomes, due to sickness as 
well as to various other causes. A budget must be planned if 
intelHgent work is to follow for the rehabilitation of the family. 

„ . These menus can serve as a basis to determine the amount 
Food 

Budget of relief needed for food, increasing the cost per person accord- 
ing to the size of the family. 

"The problem of the food supply is not one which can be 
dismissed by the social philosopher or solved by the calculations 
of the economist. It is highly complex with its involvement of 
factors and interests in agriculture, commerce, industry, and 



VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 25 

nutrition. Here, as in other domains, there is opportunity for 
an interplay of science and the arts, of experience and investi- 
gation. To attempt to foretell the future seems more like an 
act of ill-considered rashness than a keen intellectual venture. 
The truth can only be approached scientifically. We are begin- 
ning to learn what real food values mean. There is as yet no 
ideal ration. The 'world-menu' is not in sight." ^ 

VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 

Each one of the recipes used in these menus has been care- „ , 

Recipes 
fully analyzed, each ingredient measured and weighed sepa- "Tried and 

rately, and the food values calculated in the manner to be Tested" 
described. The food has then been cooked and eaten, so that 
we may say that each recipe has been "tried and tested." The 
cooked food has also been weighed and the values of the sepa- 
rate ingredients added together to give the total food value of 
the whole recipe. A portion such as would be eaten at the 
family table has then been measured out in a common measure, 
weighed, and its value estimated. This portion we have called 
"i serving." Hence we have presented an analysis of cooked 
foods rather than of raw foodstuffs, in order to determine the 
actual value and cost of the food as it is served at the table. 

For the convenience of the housewife and of any who may 
wish to cook the foods, the recipes are given with the measures Common Use 
expressed in the usual terms of cups, tablespoons, and teaspoons 
as well as by weight. The weight of a cup of a dry ingredient, 
such as sugar, flour, and fat, varies according to the amount 
of moisture and the manner in which the material is packed in 
the utensil. After many weighings, the standard accepted was : 

STANDARD MEASURES 
1 cup of sugar 
1 cup of flour 
1 tablespoon of "oleo" 

and in each recipe the weight used per cup and per tablespoon 

corresponds to the above standard. 

^ Mendel : Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press, New York. 1915. p. 59. 



200 grams 
114 " 


Our 

Standard 


12 " 


Measures 



26 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

This method was employed with all the materials, as it is 

only by the use of definite and uniform amounts that food 

values can be calculated. The cooking by measure, however, 

approximates these amounts, so that our estimates may be used 

without too great a discrepancy. 
Level 
Measurements All the ingredients used in cooking are measured level. 

Edible ^^^ vegetables, fruits, and nuts are calculated for the edible 
Portion portion unless otherwise implied in the directions for cooking. 
In purchasing supplies, allowance has been made for this neces- 
sary refuse, or inedible matter, which cannot be used at the table. 
Bulletin 28, Office of Experiment Stations, United States De- 
Waste partment of Agriculture, gives the percentage of refuse of the 
common articles of food, and this waste must be considered 
in the cost. 
Supplies The weights in grams, as given in the recipes, have been 
converted into the common terms of pounds and ounces in the 
"supply sheet," in order to simplify the purchase of materials. 
This introduces a slight change in the total amounts purchased. 
An ounce is 28.35 grams, roughly 30 grams ; a pound is the 
equivalent of 453.6 grams, approximately 450 grams. 
Unit of The gram has been employed as the unit of measure in all 
Measure ^^g menus and recipes, since its use facilitates the extensive 
calculations that are necessary in computing food values. Be- 
cause the tables of Atwater and Bryant in Bulletin 28 are based 
on percentage composition, the use of the metric system is 
simpler than the ordinary system of ounces and pounds. 
Method of ^^ ^^ ^^ almost impossible to estimate with such minute 
Calculation accuracy an average of the chemical analyses of the various 
food elements, decimal places are not used in calculating the 
weight of the food constituents. They are, however, used in 
calculating the calories (4.1 for each gram of protein and 
carbohydrate, and 9.3 for each gram of fat).^ They are dis- 

*The whole numbers 4 and 9 are often used as the calorie yield of 
I gram of protein, carbohydrate, and fat. For a discussion of the calorie see 
. Sherman : Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Macmillan Co., New York. 
191 1. Chap. V, p. 118 ff. 



VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 



27 



regarded in the final result — calories per serving — so that there 
is apt to be some insignificant variation in the total calories, as 
expressed in our tables, from those of Atwater and Bryant, 
expressed in value per pound. 

In order to calculate the food value of a given recipe, each Composition 
ingredient has to be weighed, and the weight of the constituent ^y Weight 
protein, fat, and carbohydrate estimated from the tables of 
percentage composition given in Bulletin 28. For example, 
I measuring cupful of milk weighs 244 grams. The chemical 
composition of milk, omitting water and ash, is, by 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION 

Protein 3.3 per cent 

Fat 4.0 '• " 

Carbohydrate 5.0 " " 

The weights in grams, therefore, of these food constituents 

in I cupful of milk are : 

Protein 244 X -033 = 8.05 

Fat 244 X .04 = 9.76 

Carbohydrate 244 X .05 — 12.20 



t. e., 



8 grams 
10 " 
12 " 



CALORIE YIELD 

Since i gram of protein yields 4.1 calories, i gram of fat 
9.3 calories, and i gram of carbohydrate 4.1 calories, the fuel 
value of I cupful of milk in terms of calories for each of the 
food constituents is : 



Protein 

Fat 

Carbohydrate 

Total fuel value 



8 X 4.1 = 32.8 calories 
10 X 9.3 = 93.0 
12X4.1 = 49.2 



175.0 



Using this method with an entire recipe. Number 44, we Analysis 



Baked Custard 



proceed as follows : 

3 cups milk f cup sugar 

3 eggs . Pinch salt 

Grated nutmeg 

As in the case of the milk, we first weigh each ingredient 
composing the recipe, and then, consulting Bulletin 28 for the 
percentage composition, compute the weight in grams. 



of a Recipe 



28 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 
WEIGHT IN GRAMS 



Material Meas. 

Milk 3 C. 
Eggs 3 
Sugar f C. 


Weight 
Grams 

732 

150 

75 


Protein Grams 
Wt. X % 

732 X .033 = 24 
150 X .134 = 20 


Fat Grams 
Wt. X % 

732 X .04 
1.50 X .105 


= 29 
= 16 


Carbohydrate Grams 
Wt. X % 

732 X .05 = 37 
75 X 1.00 = 75 


Total 


957 


44 




45 


112 



Having ascertained the weight of the food constituents, 
we find the food value as follows : 



CALORIES 



Material 

Milk 

Eggs . . . 
Sugar . . 

Total 



Protein Calories 
Wt. X 4.1 

24 X 4.1 = 98 
20 X 4.1 = 82 



Fat Calories 
Wt. X 9.3 

29 X 9.3 = 270 
16 X 9.3 = 149 



Carbohydrate Calories Total 

Wt. X 4.1 Calories 

37 X 4.1 = 162 520 

231 

75 X 4.1 = 308 308 



180 



419 



460 



1059 



Cooking 



Loss of These figures represent the total food value of the ingredi- 
Weight in ents of a baked custard, the weight in grams of the food con- 
stituents, and the number of calories of protein, fat, and carbo- 
hydrates. After cooking, however, the total weight of the dish 
changes; instead of 957 grams, it weighs only 804 grams. We 
find that with cooking there is a loss in weight, due to the 
evaporation of water, which makes, a smaller quantity available 
for serving, but there is no appreciable loss in food value. 

An ordinary helping of this baked custard, expressed in 
terms of common measure, is 2 heaping tablespoonsful (2 h. T.) 
and weighs on an average 134 grams. The custard will there- 
fore serve six people with one portion apiece. 



NO. 



CUSTARD 



Material 

Cooked . . . 
1 Serving . 



Measure 

12 h. T. 
2h. T. 



Weight 
Grams 

804 
134 



Protein 
Grams 

44 

7 



Fat Carbohydrate p-i.^po 
Grams Grams Calories 



45 



112 
19 



1069 



Calories per 
serving . . 



29 74 78 

(7 X 4.1) (8 X 9.3) (19 X 4.1) 



181 



VALUES FOR COOKED FOODS 29 

These recipes have been taken from standard cookbooks, standard 
The average amount that would be served to a person at the Serving 
table has been considered the standard, and from that portion 
the weight was taken for " i Serving." As the weight, compo- 
sition, food value, and cost of " i Serving" is always computed, 
it was considered advisable to keep the recipe as given in the 
cookbook, even though it might serve more than the number 
in the family of five that was arbitrarily chosen as a basis for 
these computations. 

If this same recipe is to be used for a different number of 
people, the ingredients remaining the same, a larger or smaller 
portion by weight must be served with a proportionate change 
of food value and cost per person. 

If it is desirable, for any reason whatever, to alter this 
recipe, a knowledge of the components as analyzed in the recipe 
allows substitution or addition. If the quantity of milk or eggs 
is increased, or a caramel or chocolate custard prepared by 
adding the necessary sugar or cocoa, the above calculations will 
serve as a framework for further computations. 

As there is also a cost column in our recipes, it will be 
possible in some instances to substitute a cheaper for a more 
expensive foodstuff of the same food value, and to compute the 
price for the amount of each ingredient used. "Shredded 
wheat" may be omitted for breakfast, for example, and cracked 
wheat put in its place, at a saving of over i cent per person ; 
or gingerbread may take the place of corn bread, at a slightly 
lower cost with a higher total food value, the amount of protein 
and fat being the same. If the housekeeper must reduce her 
expenses, she can interchange two foods whose food values 
approximate each other and whose cost differ, and thus lessen 
her expenditure. 



30 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



CONVERSION TABLES 



GRAMS TO OUNCES' 



Grams 


Ounces 


1 


0.035 


2 


0.071 


3 


0.106 


4 


0.141 


5 


0.176 


6 


0.212 


7 


0.247 


8 


0.283 


9 


0.317 


10 


0.353 


20 


0.705 


30 


1.058 


40 


1.411 


SO 


1.764 


60 


2.116 


Ounces 


Grams 


1 


28.35 


2 


56.70 


3 


85.05 


4 


113.40 


5 


141.75 


6 


170.10 


7 


198.45 


8 


226.80 


Pounds 


Grams 


1 


453.6 


2 


907 


2.2 


1000 



Grams 


Ounces 


70 


2.467 


80 


2.822 


90 


3.174 


100 


3.527 


113 


4 


200 


7 


227 


8 


250 


8.8 


300 


10.5 


400 


14 


453.6 


16 


500 


17.6 


907 


32 


1000 


35.2 



OUNCES TO GRAMS 



POUNDS TO GRAMS 



Ounces 


Grams 


9 


255.15 


10 


283.50 


11 


311.84 


12 


340.20 


13 


368.54 


14 


396.90 


15 


425.25 


16 


453.60 


IS 

Pounds 


Grams 


3 


1361 


4 


1814 


5 


2267 



ABBREVIATIONS 



b 


^ bottle 
' cup 


lb 


pound 


C 


oz 


ounce 


en 


can 


pkg 


package 


d 


diameter 


Pt 


pint 


dz 


dozen 


Qt 


quart 


gl 


glass 


si 


slice 


h 


heaping 


sq 


square 


in 


inch 


T 


tablespoon 


1 


loaf 


t 


teaspoon 






♦ 


trace 



* Adapted from Rose : A Laboratory Handbook for Dietetics. Macmillan, 
New York. 1912. pp. 73, 74. 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



3i 



1st Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Gram s 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

11 Meat balls with rice 2 210 31 

110 Boiled onions 2 170 4 

90 White sauce 4 T. 80 4 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

34 Apple Betty 2 h. T. 155 5 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 125 1 

9 Gingerbread 1 si. 75 5 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 12 !_ 

Total 88 

Total Calories . . . 361 

Man's Lunch ( add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 12 21 



1st Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate Calo- 
Grams ries 



3 23 147 
12 109 627 



14 
1 

10 
1 

5 



24 
20 
8 
40 
44 



- 34 
5 52 
4 40 



-1 



355 
98 
142 
202 
248 

143 

281 
230 



14 70 



56 
521 



408 2543 
1673 2555 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



.30 

.70 

3.86 



6.00 
.82 
1.30 
1.15 
2.50 

1.07 
.90 

1.36 
.13 
.42 



20.51 



ZZ 



12 442 2.00 



1st Week TUESDAY 2d Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe _ for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cen ts 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 1 45 219 2.00 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

, Dinner 

1 97 Split pea soup 1 C. 245 17 4 42 279 l.io" 

^--^14 Scalloped potatoes.. 2 h. T. 93 7 7 36 242 1.82 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 \ m I'^l 1.15 

49 Prune jelly 2 h. T. 200 4 — 60 262 2.86 

Supper 

^58 Applesauce 3 h. T. 125 * 1 31 136 1.50 

5 Corn bread 2 gems 120 10 10 64 398 2.40 

Oleo 2 t. 8 * 6 — 65 .42 

Milk 1 glass 220 7 9 11 158 2.30 

Total 75 51 438 2588 20.11 

Total Calories ... 308 474 1796 2578 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Meat Loaf 1 si. 104 21 11 5 209 4.15 



32 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



1st Week WEDNESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coflfee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

105 Stewed beans and 

tomato sauce 1 C. 257 16 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

48 Junket i C. 126 4 

Supper 

29 Rice 1 C. 200 4 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

Bread and olec... 2 si. 158 14 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 72 

Total Calories . . . 295 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo.. 1 si. 79 7 

Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 

(21" X 21" X i") 



3d Day 



1 
12 



34 169 
109 627 



44 
40 
10 



293 
202 
104 



40 180 

57 234 

80 469 

12 126 



39 

363 



Cost 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries 



Cents 



.50 
.70 

3.86 



2.11 
1.15 
1.17 



1.00 

.70 

2.72 

1.70 



426 2404 15.61 
1747 2405 



4 

40 



40 230 1.36 
* 504 5.00 



1st Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

77 Beef stew 1 C. 235 36 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

60 Baked apple 2 270 2 

Supper 

13 Oat wafers 5 50 5 

65 Rhubarb sauce . . . . 2 h. T. 90 * 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121 -b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch(add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



4th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


45 


219 


2.00 










70 


12 


109 


627 


8.00 


46 


28 


691 


8.00 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


2 


52 


240 


2.42 


8 


33 


230 


.74 


1 


36 


157 


.91 


— 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


72 


357 


2436 


24.47 


670 


1464 


2437 





— 129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



33 



1st Week 



FRIDAY 



5th Day 



Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat... 1 C. 250 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 

121-d Constants THZ 

Dinner 

93 Farina soup IJ C. ZZZ 

Bread 1 si. 75 

116 Scalloped tomatoes i C. 117 

45 Fruit pudding 2 si. 160 

87 Hard sauce 1 h. T. 19 

Supper 

5 Corn bread 2 gems 120 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 

62 Baked banana 1 100^ 

Total 

Total Calories . . . 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 

Oleo for 2 si. 

bread 2 t. 8 



5 


1 


33 


165 


.80 
.70 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


13 


12 


31 


292 


3.06 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


3 


4 


11 


94 


1.40 


10 


18 


88 


569 


2.21 


* 


5 


13 


99 


.70 



10 10 64 398 2.40 

5 6 12 12u 1.70 

1 1 32 144 1.38 



71 
291 


70 
651 


433 

1775 


2716 
2717 


19.36 


14 


10 




152 


5.00 


♦ 


7 





65 


.42 



1st Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Corn meal 1 C. 257 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

98 Baked beans 1 C. 185 19 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

35 Dutch apple cake... 1 si. Ill 7 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 * 

Supper 

118 Cream toast 1 si. 148 11 

Sliced banana and 1 100 1 

Sugar 2 t. 8 — 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar.... 42 1_ 

Total 74 

Total Calories ... 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 27 



6th Day 



Carbo- 

Fat hydrate 

Grams Grams 



Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 



1 


35 


169 


.30 


— 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 



9 47 355 2.22 

2 80 404 2.30 

8 47 296 2.46 

1 11 54 .24 



11 


49 


348 


2.46 


1 


22 


103 


1.25 


— 


8 


33 


.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



46 422 2459 16.34 
428 1730 2461 



26 



361 5.60 



34 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



1st Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat .... 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 27Z 17 

Dinner 

70 Roast lamb (fore- 1 si. with- 

quarter) out bone 90 20 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

106 Beets 1 200 5 

113 Potato, boiled 1 150 4 

39 Chocolate pudding.. 2 h. T. 155 7 

Supper 

61 Apricot or peach 

sauce 3 h. T. 150 3 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

1 1 Ginger cookies 6 60 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar.... 42 1 

Total 81 

Total Calories . . . 332 



7th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


40 


198 


.60 
.70 

3.86 


12 


109 


627 


27 




333 


11.00 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


* 


15 


83 


1.25 


* 


31 


143 


1.00 


8 


42 


275 


2.77 


1 


48 


218 


2.05 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


3 


50 


249 - 


. .84 
.13 
.42 


1 


14 


70 


58 


429 


2628 


27.13 


539 


1759 


2630 





Totals for First ^Veek 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, first week. 
Average per day. 



88 


56 


408 


2543 


.2051 


75 


51 


438 


2588 


.2011 


72 


39 


426 


2404 


.1561 


74 


72 


357 


2436 


.2447 


71 


70 


433 


2716 


.1936 


74 


46 


422 


2459 


.1634 


81 


58 


429 


2628 


.2713 


535 


392 


2913 


17774 


1.4353 


76 


56 


416 


2539 


.2050 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



35 



2d Week MONDAY 8th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ties Cents 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy IC. 245 3 * 32 143 .30 

2 Coflfee 1 C. 250 — — — — 70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

n Beef stew 1 C. 235 36 46 28 691 8.00 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

n Apple tapioca 4 h. T. 200 * 1 55 235 1.50 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 prunes 125 1 — 34 143 1.07 

5 Corn bread 2 gems 120 10 10 64 398 2.40 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 75 71 376 2509 19.53 

Total Calories .. . 308 660 1542 2510 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 ZZ 12 442 2.00 



2d Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

76 Scalloped meat, mac- 
aroni, and tomatoes 3 h. T. 190 20 
Bread 1 si. 75 7 

119 Cabbage salad i C. 57 1 

120 French dressing . . . 2 t. 9 — 
63 Date and prune sauce 3 h. T. 123 2 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

44 Custard 2 h. T. 134 7 

85 Caramel sauce 2 T. 40 — 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

73 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 



9th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


34 


169 


.50 


— 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


8 


21 


245 


4.10 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


* 


3 


16 


.50 


7 


— 


65 


.19 


1 


66 


288 


2.22 


9 


80 


469 


2.30 


8 


19 


181 


2.40 


— 


25 


103 


ZZ 
.10 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



48 411 2435 18.77 
446 1685 2434 



11 



209 4.15 



36 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

2d Week WEDNESDAY 10th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 1 45 219 2.00 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 _ _ _ — 70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

95 Oatmeal and potato 

soup 2 C. 450 6 5 46 261 1.53 

111 Escalloped onions.. 1 140 5 10 20 196 1.63 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

35 Dutch apple cake . . 1 si. Ill 7 8 47 296 2.46 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 * 1 11 54 .24 

Supper 

48 Junket i C. 126 4 5 10 104 1.17 

85 Caramel sauce 2 T. 40 — — 25 103 .33 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 465 2.72 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 67 53 447 2597 18.34 

Total Calori es . . . 275 493 1833 2601 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 * 504 5.00 

(21" X 2i" X 5") 



2d Week THURSDAY 11th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Ma terial Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat .... 1 C. 246 6 1 40 198 .60 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 _ _ _ — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

68 Flank steak with veg- 
etables 1 si. 317 24 22 23 397 4.38 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

29 Rice i C. 100 2 * 20 90 .50 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 _ _ 57 234 .70 

Supper 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 9 54 309 1.41 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 6 12 126 1.70 

Bread and oleo.... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

Total 78 60 435 2652 17.72 

Total Calories . . . 320 558 1784 2662 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 9 129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



37 



2d Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

92 Fish chowder 1 C. 284 38 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

79 Lettuce 4 leaves SO 1 

119 Boiled dressing.... 2 T. 50 2 

50 Prune loaf 1 si. 150 6 

Supper 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 

Jelly 2 h. T. 70 1 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1__ 

Total 93 

Total Calories . . . 381 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

01eofor2sl.bread 2 t 8 * 



12th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate Calo- 
Grams ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



* 32 143 

12 109 627 



10 
1 

* 

5 
7 

4 
2 
1 



30 

40 

1 

5 

70 



28 
54 
80 

14 



372 

202 

8 

76 

zn 

164 
225 
404 

70 



42 
391 



.30 

.70 

3.86 

4.26 
1.15 
1.00 
1.04 
2.13 

.95 

2.66 

2.30 

.13 

.42 



463 2668 20.90 
1898 2670 



10 

7 



152 
65 



5.00 
.42 



2d Week 



SATURDAY 



13th Day 



Recipe 

No. 



Material 



Measure Carbo- Cost 

for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



Breakfast 
24 Rolled oats 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants . 



1 C. 
1 C. 



71 

83 

81 

119 

16 



64 



Dinner 

Hamburg steak 
Brown gravy . . 
Vegetable salad 
Boiled dressing 

Bread 

Peanut candy. . 

Supper 

Prune sauce... 
Bread and oleo 
Cocoa 



250 
250 
273 



50 



1 si. 

i C. — 

1 C. 157 

2 T 50 
1 si. 75 
5 pieces 50 



5 prunes 
2 si. 
1 C. 



125 
158 
230 



Total 

Total Calories 



6 
17 

16 

* 

3 
2 
7 
4 

1 

14 
5 



3 

12 



23 147 .30 
— — .70 

109 627 3.86 



2 
16 

5 
40 
42 



138 

36 

87 

76 

202 

244 



75 
308 



54 
502 



3.00 
.24 
1.90 
1.04 
1.15 
1.50 



- 34 143 1.07 
9 80 469 2.72 
6 12 126 1.70 



363 2295 19.18 
1488 2298 



Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 
purchased) 2 sau'ges 



140 



27 



26 



2 361 5.60 



38 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



2d Week 



SUNDAY 



14th Day 



Recipe 
No. 


Material 


Measure 
for One 
Person 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Calo- 
ries 


Cost 

in 
Cents 


Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat 

2 Coffee 

121-d Con.stants 


1 C. 

1 c. 

1 si. 

1 C. 

1 si. 

2 si. 

1 h.T. 

2 h.T. 
1 si. 

1 C. 


250 
250 
273 

100 

177 
75 

160 
19 

90 

79 

250 

42 


5 
17 

23 

4 

7 

10 

* 

* 
7 

1 


1 

12 
24 

1 

18 
5 

1 
4 

1 


33 
109 

4 

13 
40 
88 
13 

36 
40 

14 


165 
627 

333 

69 
202 
569 

99 

157 
228 

70 


.80 
.70 

3.86 


67 
108 

45 
87 

65 


Dinner 

Braised beef 

Canned peas and car- 
rots 

Bread 

Fruit pudding 

Hard sauce 

Supper 

Rhubarb sauce 

Bread and oleo 

Tea 


4.10 

3.17 

1.15 

2.21 

.70 

.91 

1.36 

13 


121-b 


Milk and sugar 

Total 


.42 








74 
303 


67 
623 


390 
1599 


2519 
2525 


1QS1 




Total Calories . . . 





Totals for Second W^eek 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, second week 
Average per day . . . 



75 


71 


376 


2509 


.1953 


74 


48 


411 


2435 


.1877 


67 


53 


447 


2597 


.1834 


78 


60 


435 


2652 


.1772 


93 


42 


463 


2668 


.2090 


75 


54 


363 


2295 


.1918 


74 


67 


390 


2519 


.1951 


536 


395 


2885 


17675 


1.3395 


77 


56 


412 


2525 


.1914 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



39 



3d Week MONDAY 

Measure 
Recipe for One Weight Protein 
No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Com meal 1 C. 257 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121 -d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

117 Vegetable hash ... . 1 C. 140 9 

Bread.... 2 si. 150 14 

51 Rice pudding 2 h. T. 133 6 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 * 

Supper 

63 Date and prune sauce 3 h. T. 123 2 
4 Baking powder bis- 
cuit 3 90 8 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 65 

Total Calories . . . 266 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



15th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


35 


169 


.30 










70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


8 


36 


259 


1.90 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


7 


34 


229 


2.11 


1 


11 


54 


.24 



66 288 2.20 



11 
6 



45 
12 



313 
126 



49 

456 



428 
1755 



2469 
2477 



1.60 
1.70 



16.91 



33 



12 442 2.00 



3d Week TUESDAY 16th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

29 Rice 1 C. 200 4 * 40 180 1.00 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

77 Meat stew 1 C. 235 36 46 28 691 8.00 

38 Bread pudding f C. 185 11 10 41 306 3.20 

Supper 

25 Oatmeal cakes 1 133 5 3 16 115 .53 

Sugar It. 4 — 4 4 16 — 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 * 1 31 136 1.50 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.70 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 88 86 363 2610 22.04 

Total Calories ... 361 800 1488 2649 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

73 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 11 5 209 4.15 



40 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



3d Week WEDNESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 21Z 17 

Dinner 

104 Bean loaf I C. 190 21 

Tomatoes 2 200 2 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

49 Prune jelly 2 h. T. 200 4 

Supper 

61 Apricot sauce 3 h. T. 150 3 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

7 Cake 2 si. 80 6 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 

Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 

(2rx2rxi") 



17th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


40 


198 


.60 

.70 

3.86 


12 


109 


627 


11 


61 


438 


2.76 


* 


8 


41 


2.00 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


— 


60 


262 


2.86 


1 


48 


218 


2.05 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


8 


55 


326 


1.90 
.13 

.42 


1 


14 


70 


39 


475 


2612 


19.79 


363 


1948 


2614 





4 40 230 1.36 

40 * 504 5.00 



3d Week THURSDAY 18th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat . . . 1 C. 250 5 1 33 165 .80 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

74 Meat pie 4 h. T. 200 37 23 36 514 7.23 

110 Boiled onion 1 85 2 * 10 49 .41 

Oleo It. 4 * 3 — 28 .21 

37 Apple tapioca 4 h. T. 200 — 1 55 235 1.50 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 8 80 469 2.72 

48 Junket i C. 126 4 5 10 104 1.17 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — — 57 234 .70 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 80 54 404 2495 19.85 

Total Calories ... 328 502 1656 2486 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 9—129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 41 

3d Week FRIDAY 19th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cen ts 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 3 23 147 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 _ _ _ 70 

121 -d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 ''3.86 

Dinner 

57 Salmon loaf 1 C. 240 21 18 32 384 4.14 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 2 80 404 2.30 

42 Cornstarch pudding 2 h. T. 110 4 5 25 166 1.46 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 prunes 125 1 — 34 143 1.07 

Bread and oleo ... . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

10 Fruit cookies 4 100 5 11 70 410 1.88 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 76 56 427 2581 17.62 

Total Calories ... 312 521 1751 2584 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 10 — 152 5.00 

Oleo for 2 si. bread 2 t. 8 * 7 — 65 .42 



3d Week SATURDAY 

Measure 
Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

93 Farina soup U C. 233 13 

99 Baked bean loaf and 

tomato sauce 1 C. 225 18 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

36 Apple pudding 4 h. T. 164 6 

and 
87 Hard sauce 1 h. T. 19 * 

Supper 

5 Corn bread 1 60 5 

and 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 
purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 27 



20th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



* 32 143 .30 
— — — .70 
12 109 627 3.86 



12 



31 292 3.06 



.2 


52 


399 


3.15 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


7 


56 


320 


2.30 



13 99 



57 
12 



234 
126 



60 434 2641 
558 1779 2640 



.70 



32 199 1.20 



.70 
1.70 



18.82 



26 



2 361 5.60 



42 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



3d Week 



SUNDAY 



21st Day 



Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 

2 Coffee 

121-d Constants 

Dinner 

n Lamb stew 

Bread 

50 Prune loaf 

Supper 

58 Apple sauce 

7 Cake 

1 Cocoa 

Total 

Total Calories . 



1 c. 


250 


5 


1 


34 


169 


.50 


1 c. 


250 


— 


— 


— 




.70 




273 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


1 c. 


235 


36 


46 


28 


691 


8.00 


1 si. 


75 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


1 si. 


150 


6 


7 


70 


m 


2.13 


3 h.T. 


125 


* 


1 


31 


136 


1.50 


2 si. 


80 


6 


8 


55 


326 


1.90 


1 C. 


230 


5 


6 


12 


126 


1.70 






82 


82 


379 


2654 


21.42 






336 


763 


1554 


2653 


21.42 



Totals for Third Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, third week. 
Average per day.. . 



65 


49 


428 


2469 


.1691 


88 


86 


363 


2610 


.2204 


74 


39 


475 


2612 


.1979 


80 


54 


404 


2495 


.1985 


76 


56 


427 


2581 


.1762 


74 


60 


434 


2641 


.1882 


82 


82 


379 


2654 


.2142 


539 


426 


2910 


18062 


1.3645 


n 


61 


416 


2580 


.1949 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



43 



4th Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

75 Meat pie with po- 
tato crust 4h. T. 225 20 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

106 Beets 4 h. T. 200 5 

Oleo It. 4 * 

41 Cottage pudding ... 2 si. 144 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

61 Apricot sauce 3 h. T. 150 3 

11 Ginger cookies 6 60 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1_ 

Total 75 

Total Calories . . . 308 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



22d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



12 



14 
1 

* 

3 
10 



34 169 
109 627 



30 
40 
15 

n 



40 
48 
50 



335 

202 

83 

28 

434 



230 
218 
249 



14 70 



50 

465 



457 2645 
1874 2647 



.50 

.70 

3.86 



4.10 
1.15 
1.25 
.21 
2.38 

1.36 

2.05 

.84 

.13 

.42 



21.70 



2>2> 



12 442 2.00 



4th Week TUESDAY 23d Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 1 40 198 .60 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 211 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

33 Cheese fondue I C. 182 19 2Z 32 423 4.12 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

107 Greens 2 h. T. 100 2 4 3 57 2.50 

51 Rice pudding 2 h. T. 133 6 7 34 229 2.11 

88 Lemon sauce 4 T. 64 * 2 22 108 .48 

Supper 

60 Baked apple 1 apple 135 1 1 26 120 1.21 

9 Gingerbread 2i cakes 100 6 7 69 372 1.25 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 6 12 126 1.70 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 11 69 441 2762 21.59 

Total Calories ... 316 642 1808 2766 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

11 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 11 5 209 4.15 



44 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

4th Week WEDNESDAY 24th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams rie s Cents 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat.... 1 C. 250 5 1 33 165 .80 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

102 Scalloped lima beans 1 C. 300 15 5 53 326 3.00 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

80 Potato salad 1 C. 150 4 * 31 143 1.00 

120 French dressing . . . 2 t. 9 — 7 — 65 .19 

44 Custard 2 h. T. 134 7 8 19 181 2.40 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 125 1 — 34 142 1.07 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

8 Fruit cake 2 pieces 100 4 3 83 384 1.76 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 75 47 496 2774 19.20 

Total Calories ... 308 437 2034 2779 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 * 504 5.00 

(2i" X 2i" X i") 



4th Week THURSDAY 25th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 3 23 147 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

100 Baked bean stew... li C 320 11 8 39 279 2.00 

Raw tomatoes (2) 

or stewed tomatoes 4 T. 200 2 * 8 41 2.00 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

40 Chocolate farina 

pudding 3 h. T. 141 7 7 33 229 2.60 

Supper 

23 Fried corn mush... } C. 192 3 1 27 132 .23 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 _ _ 57 234 .70 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 6 12 126 1.70 

Total 72 50 428 2514 18.17 

Total Calories ... 295 465 1755 2515 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 9—129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



45 



4th Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Corn meal 1 C. 250 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 211 17 

Dinner 

27 Macaroni and cheese 1 C. 200 10 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

45 Fruit pudding 2 si. 160 10 

87 Hard sauce 1 h.T. 19 * 

Supper 

62 Baked banana 1 100 1 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

Total 75 

Total Calories . . . 308 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

Oleo for 2 si. bread 2 t. 8 * 



26th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



12 



35 


169 


.30 


— 




.70 


109 


627 


3.86 



14 32 302 2.38 

2 80 404 2.30 

18 88 569 2.21 

5 13 99 .70 



1 32 
6 12 
9 80 



144 1.38 
126 1.70 
469 2.72 



68 481 2909 18.25 
632 1972 2912 



10 — 

7 — 



152 
65 



5.00 
.42 



4th Week SATURDAY 27th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 1 45 219 2.00 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

103 Bean puree 1 C. 250 29 8 76 505 3.03 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 L15 

6 Griddle cakes 4 156 12 10 64 404 2.66 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — — 57 234 .70 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

29 Boiled rice i C. 100 2 * 20 90 .50 

121-b Milk and sugar .... IZ 2 2 15 88 .72 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 83 39 480 2669 17.23 

Total Calories ... 340 363 1968 2671 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
FrjinlciurtGrs ( 3.S 

purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 27 26 2 361 5.60 



46 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



4th Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

68 Flank steak with 1 si. 317 24 

vegetables 1 C. 

101 Lima beans 2 h. T. 75 5 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

46 Fruit shortcake 

(strawberry) 1 si. 158 6 

Supper 

60 Baked apple 1 135 1 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 81 

Total Calories . . . 332 



28th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



12 



22 



32 143 .30 
— — .70 

109 627 3.86 



23 387 4.38 



* 

1 


20 
40 


103 
202 


.59 
1.15 


12 


52 


350 


3.30 


1 
9 
9 


26 
54 
80 


120 
309 
469 


1.21 
1.41 
2.72 


1 


14 


70 


.13 

.42 


67 
623 


450 
1845 


2780 
2800 


20.17 



Totals for Fourth Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, fourth week. 
Average per day. . . . 



75 


50 


457 


2645 


.2170 


77 


69 


441 


2762 


.2159 


75 


47 


496 


2774 


.1920 


72 


50 


428 


2514 


.1817 


75 


68 


481 


2909 


.1825 


83 


39 


480 


2669 


.1723 


81 


67 


450 


2780 


.2017 


538 


390 


3233 


19053 


1.3631 


77 


56 


462 


2722 


.1947 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



47 



5th Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat ... 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 212> 17 

Dinner 

109 Lentil hash 1 C. 240 10 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

106 Beets 1 200 5 

Oleo It. 4 * 

44 Custard 2 h. T. 134 7 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

Dates 10 83 2 

13 Oat wafers 5 50 5 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 12 21 



29th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 45 219 
12 109 627 



41 
40 

IS 

19 



246 

202 

83 

28 

181 



9 80 469 
2 59 269 
8 ZZ 230 



1 



14 70 



49 

456 



455 2624 
1866 2625 



2.00 

.70 

3.86 

1.79 
1.15 
1.25 
.21 
2.40 

2.72 

1.80 

.74 

.13 

.42 



19.17 



ZZ 



12 442 2.00 



5th Week TUESDAY 30th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat . . . 1 C. 250 5 1 Z2> 165 .80 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

n Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 11 5 209 4.15 

89 Tomato sauce 2 T. 40 1 4 4 57 .90 

114 Scalloped potatoes. . 2 h. T. 93 7 7 36 242 1.82 

41 Cottage pudding ... 2 si. 144 6 10 11 434 2.38 

Supper 

48 Junket ^ C. 126 4 5 10 104 1.17 

13 Oat wafers 5 50 5 8 33 230 .74 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 74 63 361 2368 18.43 

Total Calories ... 303 586 1480 2369 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

12, Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 11 5 209 4.15 



48 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



5th Week WEDNESDAY 31st Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 3 23 147 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 - — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

96 Scotch barley soup.. 1 C. 240 3 4 20 131 .70 

32 Scalloped rice i C. 160 3 2 25 134 .95 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

39 Chocolate pudding.. 2 h. T. 155 7 8 42 275 2.77 

Supper 

Bread 2 si. ISO 14 2 80 404 2.30 

Cheese 1 cu. in. 20 6 7 * 90 .96 

14 Fudge 2^ pieces 50 2 4 43 221 1.36 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 4 28 163 .95 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 76 56 464 2731 18.12 

Total Calories ... 312 521 1902 2735 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 * 504 5.00 

(25" X 23" 3c i") 



5th Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

72 Meat balls with rice 2 210 31 

107 Beet greens 2 h. T. 100 2 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

49 Prune jelly 2 h. T. 200 4 

Supper 

65 Rhubarb sauce 2 h. T. 90 * 

9 Gingerbread 2i cakes 100 6 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 77 

Total Calories ... 316 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



32d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


34 


169 


.50 


12 


109 


627 


.70 
3.86 


14 
3 
4 


24 
3 

40 
60 


355 

48 

230 

262 


6.00 
2.50 
1.36 
2.86 


1 

7 
6 


36 
69 
12 


157 
372 
126 


.91 
1.25 
1.70 


48 
446 


387 
1587 


2346 
2349 


21.64 



— 129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



49 



5th Week FRIDAY 33d Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grains Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 1 40 198 .60 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

52 Baked stuffed fish.. 1 si. 152 33 4 7 201 3.03 

82 Butter sauce 4 C. 28 * 3 1 32 .18 

28 Macaroni croquettes 2 110 6 5 19 ISO 1.46 

86 Cheese sauce H T. 30 2 4 3 57 .67 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

Dates 10 83 2 2 59 269 1.80 

Supper 

4 Baking powder bis- 
cuits 2 60 5 7 30 209 1.10 

Berries with li T. 

sugar 3h.T. 115 1 1 26 120 3.14 

15 Molasses candy .... 3i pieces 56 2 1 54 238 .80 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 82 45 402 2401 19.25 

Total Calories ... 336 419 1648 2403 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 10 — 152 5.00 

Oleo for 2 si. bread 2 T. 8 * 7 — 65 .42 



5th Week SATURDAY 34th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe _ for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 1 34 169 .50 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

94 Lentil soup li C. 291 18 4 42 283 2.35 

Tomatoes 2 200 2 * 8 41 2.00 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

34 Apple Betty 2 h. T. 155 5 5 44 248 2.50 

Supper 

25 Oatmeal cakes 1 133 5 3 16 115 .53 

84 Syrup 2 T. 36 — — 57 234 .70 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

Milk 1 glass 220 7 9 11 158 2.30 

Total 80 47 441 2574 19.52 

Total Calories ... 328 437 1808 2573 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2sau'agesl40 27 26 2 361 5.60 



so 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



5th Week 



SUNDAY 



35th Day 



Measure Carbo- 

jiecipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries 

Breakfast 

29 Rice 1 C. 

2 Coffee 1 C. 

121-d Constants 

Dinner 

69 Pot roast U si. 

112 Baked potatoes 1 

Bread 1 si. 

79 Lettuce salad 4 leaves 

120 French dressing ... 2 t. 
47 Baked Indian pud- 
ding 2h.T. 

Supper 

64 Prune sauce 5 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 

8 Fruit cake 2 pieces 

3 Tea 1 C. 

121-b Milk and sugar 

Total 

Total Calories . . . 



142 



94 

385 



47 
437 



425 2561 
1743 2565 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



200 


4 


* 


40 


180 


1.00 


250 





— 


— 


— 


.70 


273 


17 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


150 


41 


12 




280 


10.00 


130 


4 


* 


32 


147 


1.00 


75 


7 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


SO 


1 


* 


1 


8 


1.00 


9" 


— 


7 


— 


65 


.19 



32 225 1.95 



125 


1 


— 


34 


143 


1.07 


79 


7 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


100 


4 


3 


83 


384 


1.76 


250 


— 


— 


— 




.13 


42 


1 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



25.59 



Totals for Fifth Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, fifth week. 
Average per day. . 



74 


49 


455 


2624 


.1917 


74 


63 


361 


2368 


.1843 


76 


56 


464 


2731 


.1812 


77 


48 


387 


2346 


.2164 


82 


45 


402 


2401 


.1925 


80 


47 


441 


2574 


.1952 


94 


47 


425 


2561 


.2559 


557 


355 


2935 


17605 


1.4172 


80 


51 


419 


2515 


.2025 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



51 



6th Week MONDAY 

Measure 
Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Alaterial Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

76 Scalloped meat, 
macaroni and to- 
mato 3 h. T. 190 20 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

42 Cornstarch pudding 2 h. T. 110 4 

Supper 

101 Lima bean salad. . . . 2 h. T. 75 5 

119 Boiled salad dressing 2 T. 50 2 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

Jelly 2 h. T. 70 1 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 11 

Total Calories . . . 316 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



36th Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams ties 



Calo- 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



1 


40 


198 


.60 


— 


— 


— 


.70 


.2 


109 


627 


3.86 



8 


21 


242 


4.10 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


5 


25 


166 


1.46 


* 


20 


103 


.59 


5 


5 


76 


1.04 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


— 


25 


107 


.ZZ 


— 


— 


— 


.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



38 379 2223 
353 1554 2223 



16.89 



ZZ 



12 442 2.00 



6th We,ek TUESDAY 37th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cent s 

Breakfast 

22 Corn meal 1 C 257 4 1 35 169 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

93 Wheat or farina soup U C. ZZZ 13 12 31 292 3.06 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

112 Potato, baked 1 130 4 * 32 147 1.00 

116 Scalloped tomatoes.. * C. 117 3 4 11 94 1.40 
45 Steamed fruit pud- 
ding 2 si. 160 10 18 88 569 2.21 

87 Hard sauce 1 h. T. 19 * 5 13 99 .70 

Supper 

30 Rice cakes 2 160 6 2 36 192 1.66 

84 Brown sugar syrup 2 T. 36 _ _ 57 234 .70 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 72 60 506 2925 18.65 

Total Calories ... 295 558 2075 2928 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

73 Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 11 5 209 4.15 



52 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

6th Week WEDNESDAY 38th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Kecipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

21 Hominv 1 C. 245 3 * 32 143 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

102 Scalloped limabeans 1 C. 300 15 5 53 326 3.00 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 2 80 404 2.30 

40 Chocolate farina 

pudding 3 h. T. 141 7 7 33 229 2.60 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 * 1 31 136 1.50 

8 Fruitcake 2 pieces 100 4 3 83 384 1.76 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 75 40 515 2788 19.29 

Total Calories .. . 307 372 2112 2791 19.29 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo . . 1 si. 79 7 4 40 230 1.36 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 40 * 504 5.00 

(21" X 2i" X i") 



6th Week THURSDAY 39th Day 

Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe for One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

22 Corn meal 1 C. 257 4 1 35 169 .30 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 273 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

97 Split pea soup 1 C. 245 17 4 42 279 1.10 

114 Scalloped potatoes.. 2 h. T. 93 7 7 36 242 1.82 

Bread..... 1 si. 75 7 1 40 202 1.15 

43 Cream tapioca pud- 
ding 4 h. T. 159 8 8 30 230 2.80 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 9 80 469 2.72 

Cream cheese i si. 16 3 4 * 49 1.00 

7 Cake 2 pieces 80 6 8 55 326 1.90 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 84 55 441 2663 17.90 

Total Calories .. . 344 512 1808 2664 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 9 — 129 .SOn 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



S3 



6th Week FRIDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

Shredded wheat. .. . 2 biscuits 58 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

54 Codfish balls 2 132 19 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

31 Rice and cheese.... 3 h. T. 139 12 

49 Prune jelly 2 h. T. 200 4 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

84 Brown sugar syrup 2 T. 36 — 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

Total 80 

Total Calories . . . 328 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 

Oleo for 2 si. bread 2 t. 8 * 



40th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


45 


219 


2.00 


— 


— 


— 


.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 



3 17 176 2.35 

4 40 230 1.36 
12 27 272 2.27 

— 60 262 2.86 

4 40 230 1.36 

* 32 143 .30 

— 57 234 .70 
6 12 126 1.70 



42 
391 


439 2519 
1800 2519 


19.46 


10 

7 


— 152 

- 65 


5.00 
.42 



6th Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

18 Cracked wheat 1 C. 246 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

7Z Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 

89 Tomato sauce 2 T. 40 1 

111 Scalloped onions .. . 1 140 5 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

47 Indian pudding 2 h. T. 142 7 

Supper 

65 Rhubarb sauce 2 h. T. 90 * 

7 Cake 2 pieces 80 6 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 79 7 

Total 78 

Total Calories . . . 320 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2 sau'ages 140 27 



41st Day 



Cost 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries 



Cents 



1 


40 


198 


.60 


— 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


11 


5 


209 


4.15 


4 


4 


57 


.90 


10 


20 


196 


1.63 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


7 


32 


225 


1.95 


1 


36 


157 


.91 


8 


55 


326 


1.90 


— 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 



60 395 2497 19.66 
558 1620 2498 



26 



2 361 5.60 



54 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



6th Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grains 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat. .. . 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 272> Yl 

Dinner 

t)6 Corned beef and 2 si. 

Cabbage 3 h. T. 200 36 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

Sliced orange ( 1 ) and 

banana (i), with 

sugar (3 t.) 262 2 

Supper 

59 Apple sauce (dried 

apples) 4 h. T. 177 * 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

11 Ginger cookies 6 60 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 - 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1_ 

Total 79 

Total Calories ... 324 



42 d Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


ZZ 


165 


.80 


— 


— 


— 


.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 



45 10 608 10.00 
1 40 202 1.15 



1 


46 


206 


3.25 


1 


30' 


132 


1.00 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


3 


50 


249 


.84 










.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



69 372 2489 23.51 
642 1525 2491 



Totals for Sixth Week 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, sixth week. 

Average per day . . 



n 


38 


379 


2223 


.1689 


72 


60 


506 


2925 


.1865 


75 


40 


515 


2788 


.1929 


84 


55 


441 


2663 


.1790 


80 


42 


439 


2519 


.1946 


78 


60 


395 


2497 


.1966 


79 


69 


Z72 


2489 


.2351 



545 
78 



364 
52 



3047 
435 



18104 
2586 



1.3536 
.1934 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



55 



7th Week MONDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 21Z 17 

Dinner 

n Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 

83 Brown gravy 5 C. — * 

102 Scalloped lima beans 1 C. 300 15 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

Z7 Apple tapioca 4 h. T. 200 * 

Supper 

48 Junket i C. 126 4 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

12 Oatmeal macaroons 3 30 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar 42 1_ 

Total 86 

Total Calories . . . 353 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Peanut butter fill- 
ing for 2 si. bread 4 T. 72 21 



43d Day 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 



* 


Zl 


143 


.30 


— 


— 


— 


.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 


11 


5 


209 


4.15 


3 


-> 


36 


.24 


5 


53 


326 


3.00 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


1 


55 


235 


1.50 


5 


10 


104 


1.17 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


3 


25 


147 


.74 
.13 
.42 


1 


14 


70 


51 


425 


2568 


20.08 


474 


1743 


2570 





zz 



12 442 2.00 



7th Week TUESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat.... 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 21Z 17 

Dinner 

31 Rice and cheese.... 3 h. T. 139 12 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

107 Spinach 2 h. T. 100 2 

50 Prune loaf 1 si. 150 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

58 Apple sauce 3 h. T. 125 * 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 74 

Total Calories . . . 303 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

n Meat loaf 1 si. 104 21 



44th Day 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate Calo- 
Grams Grams ries 



Cents 



1 


2>Z 


165 


.80 

.70 

3.86 


12 


109 


627 


12 


n 


272 


2.27 


2 


80 


404 


2.30 


4 


3 


57 


2.50 


/ 


70 


zn 


2.13 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


1 


31 


136 


1.50 


4 


28 


163 


.95 


— 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 


53 


475 


2740 


20.28 


493 


1948 


2744 




11 


5 


209 


4.15 



56 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



7th Week WEDNESDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

22 Corn meal 1 C. 257 4 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

94 Lentil soup U C. 291 18 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 

41 Cottage pudding 2 si. 144 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 1 si. 19 7 

62 Banana, baked 1 100 1 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

11 Ginger cookies 6 60 4_ 

Total 76 

Total Calories . . . 312 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 

Bread and oleo.. . 1 si. 79 7 
Cheese filling for 

2 si. bread 2 si. 113 32 

(2rx2|"xi'') 



45th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 


35 


169 


.30 


— 


— 




.70 


12 


109 


627 


3.86 



4 42 283 2.35 

2 80 404 2.30 
10 77 434 2.38 

4 40 230 1.36 

1 32 144 1.38 

6 12 126 1.70 

3 50 249 .84 



43 477 2666 17.17 
400 1956 2668 



4 40 230 1.36 
40 * 504 5.00 



7th Week THURSDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

21 Hominy 1 C. 245 3 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

76 Scalloped meat, 
macaroni and to- 
matoes 3 h. T. 190 20 

106 Beets 1 200 5 

120 French dressing 2 t. 9 — 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

12 Oatmeal macaroons 3 30 4 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

61 Apricot sauce 3 h. T. 150 3 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 

Total 77 

Total Calories . . . 316 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Sardine filling for 

2 si. bread 4 sardines 46 11 



46th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



12 



32 


143 


.30 


— 




.70 


109 


627 


3.86 



8 


21 


242 


4.10 


* 


15 


83 


1.25 


7 


— 


65 


.19 


1 


40 


202 


1.15 


3 


25 


147 


.74 


9 


80 


469 


2.72 


1 


48 


218 


2.05 


9 


54 


309 


1.41 


_ 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



51 438 2575 19.02 
409 1820 2545 



129 5.00 



MENUS WITH CALCULATIONS 



57 



7th Week FRIDAY 47th Day 

-Measure Carbo- Cost 

Recipe lor One Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

No. Material Person Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Breakfast 

20 Farina 1 C. 250 5 1 34 169 .50 

2 Coffee 1 C. — — — — — .70 

121-d Constants 211 17 12 109 627 3.86 

Dinner 

55 Creamed codfish . . . § C. 184 29 12 9 268 3.97 

113 Potatoes, boiled. ... 1 150 4 * 31 143 1.00 

38 Bread pudding f C. 185 11 10 41 306 3.20 

Supper 

Bread 2 si. 150 14 2 80 404 2.30 

Dates 10 83 2 2 59 269 1.80 

7 Cake 1 piece 40 3 4 28 163 .95 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — — — — .13 

121 -b Milk and sugar .... 42 1 1 14 70 .42 

Total 86 44 405 2419 18.83 

Total Calories ... 353 409 1661 2422 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Egg filling for 2 si. 

bread 2 eggs 100 14 10 — 152 5.00 

01eofor2sl.bread 2 t. 8 * 7 _ 65 .42 



7th Week SATURDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

19 Cream of wheat.... 1 C. 250 5 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Ditmer 

26 Boiled macaroni ... 1 C. 100 3 

90 Cream sauce 4 T. 80 4 

115 Succotash I C. 160 7 

Bread 1 si. 75 7 

9 Gingerbread 2* cakes 100 6 

Supper 

Bread and oleo .... 2 si. 158 14 

1 Cocoa 1 C. 230 5 

10 Fruit cookies 3 75 3 

59 Apple sauce (dried 

apples) 4 h. T. 177 * 

Total 71 

Total Calories . . . 291 

Man's Lunch (add'l) 
Frankfurters (as 

purchased) 2 sau'ges 140 27 



48th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 
12 



10 

5 
1 
7 



33 165 .80 

— — .70 

109 627 3.86 



19 
8 
35 
40 
69 



90 
142 
220 
202 
372 



30 132 



61 

558 



.50 
1.30 
2.70 
1.15 
1.25 



80 469 2.72 
12 126 1.70 
54 309 1.41 



1.00 



489 2854 19.09 
2005 2854 



26 



361 5.60 



58 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



7th Week SUNDAY 

Measure 

Recipe for One Weight Protein 

No. Material Person Grams Grams 

Breakfast 

24 Rolled oats 1 C. 250 6 

2 Coffee 1 C. 250 — 

121-d Constants 273 17 

Dinner 

78 Smoked shoulder... 1 si. 135 36 

Tomatoes, fresh or 2 

canned 4 h. T. 200 2 

113 Potato, boiled 1 150 4 

35 Dutch apple cake... 1 si. Ill 7 

88 Lemon sauce 2 T. 32 * 

Supper 

Bread and oleo 1 si. 79 7 

63 Date and prune jam 3 h. T. 123 2 

8 Fruit cake 2 pieces 100 4 

3 Tea 1 C. 250 — 

121-b Milk and sugar .... J2 1_ 

Total 86 

Total Calories . . . 353 



49th Day 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



3 


IZ 


147 


.30 


- 


— 


— 


.70 


2 


109 


627 


3.86 



IZ 



827 10.60 



* 


8 


41 


2.00 


* 


31 


143 


1.00 


8 


47 


296 


2.46 


1 


11 


54 


.24 


4 


40 


230 


1.36 


1 


66 


288 


2.22 


3 


83 


384 


1.76 


— 


— 




.13 


1 


14 


70 


.42 



106 432 3107 27.05 
435 1771 3110 



Totals for Seventh Week 



Monday , 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

Sunday 

Total, seventh week. 
Average per day 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 



86 


51 


425 


2568 


.2008 


74 


53 


475 


2740 


.2028 


76 


43 


477 


2666 


.1717 


n 


51 


438 


2575 


.1902 


86 


44 


405 


2419 


.1883 


71 


61 


489 


2854 


.1909 


86 


106 


432 


3107 


.2705 


;56 


409 


3141 


18929 


1.4152 


79 


58 


449 


2704 


.2022 



Average of Totals for Seven Weeks (per person) 



Weeks 

First 

Second 

Third 

Fourth 

Fifth 

Sixth 

Seventh 

Total, seven weeks 

Aver, per person per day 



Protein 
Grams 



Fat 
Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 



Calories 



Cost in 
Dollars 
per day 



76 


56 


416 


2539 


.2050 


n 


56 


412 


2525 


.1914 


77 


61 


416 


2580 


.1949 


77 


56 


462 


2722 


.1947 


80 


51 


419 


2515 


.2025 


78 


52 


435 


2586 


.1934 


79 


58 


449 


2704 


.2022 


i44 


390 


3009 


18171 


1.3841 


78 


56 


430 


2596 


.1977 



RECIPES — CLASSIFIED LIST 



59 



Recipes, Classified List 



I. Beverages 

1 Cocoa 

2 Coffee 

3 Tea 

II. Biscuits and Breads 

4 Baking powder biscuits 

5 Corn bread 

6 Griddle cakes 

III. Cake and Cookies 

7 Cake, plain 

8 Cake, fruit 

9 Gingerbread 

10 Cookies, fruit 

11 Cookies, ginger 

12 Oatmeal macaroons 

13 Oat wafers 

IV. Candy 

14 Fudge 

15 Molasses candy 

16 Peanut candy 

17 Penuchi 

V. Cereals and Macaroni 

18 Cracked wheat 

19 Cream of wheat 

20 Farina 

21 Hominy 

22 Com meal 

23 Corn mush, fried 

24 Rolled oats 

25 Rolled oat cakes 

26 Macaroni 

27 Macaroni and cheese 

28 Macaroni croquettes 

29 Rice 

30 Rice cakes 

31 Rice and cheese 

32 Rice, scalloped 

VI. Cheese 

33 Cheese fondue 

VII. Desserts 

34 Apple Betty 

35 Apple cake, Dutch 

36 Apple pudding 

37 Apple tapioca 

38 Bread pudding 

39 Chocolate pudding 



40 Chocolate farina pudding 

41 Cottage pudding 

42 Cornstarch pudding 

43 Cream tapioca 

44 Custard 

45 Fruit pudding 

46 Fruit shortcake 

47 Indian pudding 

48 Junket 

49 Prune jelly 

50 Prune loaf 

51 Rice pudding 



VIII. ] 


Fish 


52 


Fish, baked and stufifed 


53 


Fish, boiled 


54 


Codfish balls 


55 


Codtish, creamed 


56 


Codfish hash 


57 


Salmon loaf 


IX. Fruits 


58 


Apple sauce 


59 


Apple sauce (dried apples) 


60 


Apples, baked 


61 


Apricot or peach sauce 


62 


Bananas, baked 


63 


Date and prune sauce 


64 


Prune sauce 


65 


Rhubarb sauce 


X. Meats 


66 


Beef, corned 


67 


Beef, braised 


68 


Beef, flank, with vegetables 


69 


Beef, pot roast 


70 


Lamb, roast 


71 


Meat balls, Hamburg steak 


72 


Meat balls with rice 


73 


Meat loaf 


74 


Meat pie 


75 


Meat pie with potato crust 


76 


Meat, scalloped, with mac 




aroni 


77 


Meat, stew 


78 


Shoulder, smoked 



XI. Salads 

79 Salad, lettuce 

80 Salad, potato 

81 Salad, vegetable 



6o 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



XII. Sauces 

82 Butter sauce 

83 Brown gravy 

84 Brown sugar syrup 

85 Caramel sauce 

86 Cheese sauce 

87 Hard sauce 

88 Lemon sauce 

89 Tomato sauce 

90 White sauce 

XIII. Soups 

91 Chowder, corn 

92 Chowder, fish 

93 Soup, cereal 

94 Soup, lentil 

95 Soup, oatmeal and potato 

96 Soup, Scotch barley 

97 Soup, split pea 

XIV. Vegetables 

98 Baked beans 

99 Baked bean loaf 



100 Baked bean stew 

101 Lima beans 

102 Lima beans, scalloped 

103 Bean puree 

104 Bean loaf 

105 Beans stewed with tomatoes 

106 Beets 

107 Beet greens or spinach 

108 Carrots and peas 

109 Lentil hash 

110 Onions, boiled 

111 Onions, scalloped 

112 Potato, baked 

113 Potato, boiled 

114 Potato, scalloped 

115 Succotash 

116 Tomato, scalloped 

117 Vegetable hash 

XV. Miscellaneous 

118 Cream toast 

119 Boiled salad dressing 

120 French dressing 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 6i 

No. 1 COCOA Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 21 C. 610 20 24 31 432 6.1 

Water 2i C. 

Cocoa 3i T. 25 5 7 9 123 2.1 

Sugar 2_T\ 20 — — 20 82 2 

Total (cookecD 5 C. 1150 25 31 60 637 8.4 

1 Serving 1 C. 230 5 6 12 1.7 

Calories per serving 21 56 49 126 

Directions: 

Put milk and all but a little of the wrater in saucepan to heat. Mix sugar 
and cocoa with a little of the water to form a paste, and add this to the 
scalded milk and water. Boil for about 5 minutes. If possible, use a 
double boiler to avoid boiling the milk. 



No. 2 COFFEE Serves 5 

Cost 
Weight in 

Material Measure Grams Cents 

Coffee 10 T. 60 3.3 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

1 Serving 1 C. .7 

Directions : 

Moisten coffee with cold water; add to boiling water and boil from 1 to 
3 minutes. Keep hot without boiling for 10 minutes longer. Add 5 table- 
spoonsful of cold water to settle the grounds, and it is ready to serve. 



No. 3 TEA Serves 5 

Cost 
Weight in 

Material Measure Grams Cents 

Tea 5 t. 10 .66 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

1 Serving 1 C. .13 

Directions : 

Put the tea into a hot teapot, and pour the water, freshly boiled, over it. 
Steep 1 to 3 minutes, never longer. Do not make the tea until ready to 
serve it, for tea becomes bitter and harmful if allowed to stand. Or for 
weak tea, the leaves can be put in the tea strainer, and boiling water 
poured over them into each cup. 



62 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 4 BAKING POWDER BISCUIT Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cent s 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2.5 

Salt It. 4 

Butter substitute 3 T. 36 * 31 288 1.3 

Baking powder 2i t. 10 .9 

Milk f C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.8 

Total (cooked) 12 biscuits 360 31 41 180 1247 6.5 

Diameter, 2J" 

1 Serving 2 biscuits 60 5 7 30 1.1 

Calories per serving. .. . 21 65 123 209 

Directions : 

Sift dry ingredients together ; cut in the shortening with a knife ; add 
rnilk gradually, mixing with a knife. Put on a floured board ; pat out 
lightly with a rolling pin until about f of an inch thick. Put in a floured 
baking pan ; brush over with milk and bake in a hot oven from 12 to 15 
minutes. Or cut dough with a cookie cutter and make 12 biscuits. Less 
shortening may be used (2 instead of 3 T.) and water instead of milk, 
but this will lower the food value slightly. 



No. 5 CORN BREAD Serves 8 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cen ts 

Corn meal 1 C. 160 15 3 121 586 1.1 

Flour 1 C. 114 12 1 85 407 1.2 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .4 

Fgg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.0 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.5 

Butter substitute 2 T. 24 * 20 186 .9 

Baking powder 4 t. 12 11 

Salt ]_t 

Total (cooked) 8 cakes 480 42 39 258 1593 9.2 

Diameter, 3" 

1 Serving 1 cake 60 5 5 32 12^ 

Calories per serving 21 47 131 199 

Directions : 

Mix dry ingredients by sifting them together ; add milk, well-beaten egg, 
and melted butter substitute. Beat well, and bake in a shallow pan or in 
gem pan in hot oven for 20 minutes. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



63 



No. 6 GRIDDLE CAKES Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 3 C. 342 Zl 4 256 1239 3.60 

Baking powder U T. 15 1.40 

Salt It. 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .40 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Melted butter substitute.. 2JI\ 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Total (cooked) 20 cakes 780 60 49 320 2014 1.33 

Diameter, Z\" 

I Serving 4 cakes 156 12 10 64 2.66 

Calories per serving. .. . 49 93 262 404 

Directions: 

Sift dry ingredients together ; beat the egg, mix it with the milk, and add 
it gradually to the dry mixture, keeping the batter free from lumps. Mix 
and beat well. Add melted shortening and drop by spoonfuls on a hot 
greased griddle. When the cakes are puffed up and full of bubbles on 
top and brown underneath, turn and brown on the other side. Serve hot 
with sugar or syrup. 



No. 7 CAKE, PLAIN Serves 7 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Butter substitute 4 T. 48 * 41 — 381 1.7 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.5 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.0 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.5 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2.5 

Baking powder 4 t. 12 1.1 

Vanilla l_t LO 

Total (cooked) 14 pieces 565 40 59 383 2283 13.3 

2\" square 

1 Serving 2 pieces 80 6 8 55 1^ 

Calories per serving. ... 25 75 226 326 

Directions : 

Cream the butter substitute ; add half the sugar and continue creaming. 
Beat egg until light, and add with the milk and the rest of the sugar to 
the creamed butter substitute. Add flour mixed with baking powder. 
Flavor ; beat well, and bake in a shallow pan about half an hour. 
The cake may be covered with a plain white icing, made by putting 2 
tablespoons ful of boiling water in a bowl, adding a few drops of vanilla 
and stirring in gradually about 1 cup of confectioner's sugar. Spread on 
cake while it is still warm. This will raise the value of each serving of 
cake about 94 calories and will increase the cost .004 per portion, or a 
little over 3 cents for the whole cake. Cocoa may also be added to the 
frosting. 



3 ANGELES 
STAic NORMAL SCHOOL 

I !RC?AC?V 



64 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 8 FRUIT CAKE (2 loaves) 



Serves 12 



Material 



Measure 



Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



Sugar 2 C. 

Shortening 2 T. 

Raisins (seedless) 1 package 

Water 2 C 

Flour 3 C. 

Soda It. 

Cinnamon It. 

Ginger 1 t. 

Allspice 1 t. 

Nutmeg It. 



400 








400 


1640 


5.00 


24 


* 


20 


— 


186 


.90 


450 


12 


15 


342 


1591 


11.00 



342 37 



256 1239 3.60 



.60 



Total (cooked) 24 pieces 1200 49 39 

1 Sei ving 2 pieces 100 4 3 

Calories per serving 16 28 340 



998 4656 21.10 
83 1.76 



384 



Directions : 

Boil water, sugar, raisins, and shortening (or butter substitute) together 
for 5 minutes. When cold, stir in soda dissolved in a little warm water. 
Add flour sifted with the different spices. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
two loaves in a moderate oven. 



No. 9 GINGERBREAD Serves 8 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 2i C. 257 28 3 192 930 2.8 

Molasses 1 C. 320 8 — 222 943 2.8 

Fat, melted 4 T. 44 * 37 — 344 1.7 

Soda It. I 

Ginger H t. V — .2 

Salt it. J 

Boiling water i C. 

Total (cooked) 8 pieces 600 36 40 414 2217 7.5 

1 Serving 1 piece 75 5 5 52 .9 

2 cu. in. 

Calories per serving 21 213 281 

Directions: 

Mix and sift the soda, ginger, and salt with the flour. Add the water to 
the molasses, and to this slowly add the sifted flour, etc. Then add the 
melted shortening, and beat well. Bake in a shallow greased tin in a 
moderate oven for about 25 minutes, or in gem pans. This recipe makes 
15 small cakes of 40 grams each. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



65 



No. 10 FRUIT COOKIES Makes 36 Cookies 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Shortening i C. 96 1 82 — 767 3.50 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.50 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.0-0 

Molasses i C. 160 4 — 111 472 1.50 

Milk IT. 14 * 1 1 13 — 

Flour 2i C. 266 29 3 199 963 2.80 

Baking powder 2 t. 6 .50 

Raisins 1 C. 160 4 5 122 563 3.80 

Cinnamon 1 t. j 

Nutmeg 1 t. I ~> 

Cloves i t. I --^ 

Salt i_tj 

Total (cooked) 36 cookies 900 45 96 633 3673 16.90 

1 Serving 4 cookies 100 5 11 70 1.88 

(1 cookie) 25 1 3 18 .47 

Calories per serving. . .. 21 102 287 410 

Directions : 

Cream the shortening ; add the sugar, beaten egg, and molasses. Sift dry 
ingredients w^ith 1 cup of the flour, and add to above mixture ; then add 
milk and enough flour to roll out. Chop raisins fine and add to above. Roll 
out, cut, and bake in moderate oven. 



No. 11 GINGER COOKIES Makes 40 Cookies 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Butter substitute or fat... 2 T. 24 * 20 > — 186 .90 

Sugar i C. 50 — — 50 205 .65 

Molasses i C. 160 4 — 111 472 1.40 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2.50 

S?da |t ) Q5 

Gmger i t. ) 

Total (cooked) 40 cookies 400 29 23 332 1695 6.50 

1 Serving 6 cookies 60 4 3 50 .84 

Calories per serving 16 ^ 205 249 

Directions : 

Cream shortening and sugar together. Heat the molasses and add it. Sift 
the soda and ginger with i cup of flour. Add these with enough sifted 
flour to thicken (1 to Ij cups). Roll dough out on a floured board; cut 
and bake in a floured, greased tin about 10 minutes. 



66 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 12 OATMEAL MACAROONS Makes 20 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Butter substitute IT. 12 * 10 — 93 AS 

Sugar i C. 100 — — 100 410 1.25 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Rolled oats H C. 105 18 8 70 435 .95 

Baking powder It. 3 .27 

Salt i_t 

Total (cooked) 20 cookies 200 25 23 170 1013 4.92 

1 Serving 3 cookies 30 4 3 25 ^.74 

Calories per serving 16 28 103 147 

Directions : 

Rub butter substitute and sugar together and mix with well-beaten egg. 
Stir the rolled oats into the mixture, and add salt and baking powder. 
Mix all together, and drop from a teaspoon about an inch apart on 
greased pans. Bake in a moderately hot oven until crisp and brown. 



No. 13 OAT WAFERS Makes 46 Wafers 

Carbo- Cost 
Weicht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rolled oats 2 C. 140 23 10 93 569 1.26 

Flour 2 C. 228 24 3 171 832 2.50 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .52 

Butter substitute 6 T. 72 1 61 — 571 2.52 

Salt r t. 

Hot water ___^__ 

Total (cooked) 46 460 49 74 304 2136 6.80 

1 Serving 5 50 5 8 33 74 

Calories per serving 21 74 135 230 

Directions: 

Mix rolled oats, flour, sugar, and salt; rub in shortening; add just enough 
hot water to make dough hold together. Roll as thin as possible, cut out, 
and bake in a greased pan in a hot oven. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



67 



No. 14 CHOCOLATE FUDGE Makes 25 pieces li inches square 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Sugar 2C. 400 — — 400 1640 6.00 

Milk f C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.80 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Cocoa 6 T. 42 9 12 16 214 3.50 

Vanilla ^ t. 1.00 

Salt pinch 

Total (cooked) 25 pieces 500 15 39 425 2167 13^57 

1 Serving 2i pieces 50 2 4 43 217 1.36 

Calories per serving. ... 8 37 176 221 ■ 

Directions: 

Put sugar, milk, salt, oleo, and cocoa into a smooth, clean saucepan ; place 
over the fire and heat to boiling point, stirring occasionally until sugar has 
melted, and then cook without stirring for 6 or 8 minutes, or until the 
mixture forms a soft ball when tried in cold water. Remove from the fire, 
cool, add vanilla, and beat until soft and creamy. Pour into a greased tin 
or plate, and mark off in squares. This can be used as a frosting for cake. 



No. 15 MOLASSES CANDY Makes 35 pieces 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Molasses 2 C. 640 15—444 1882 5.60 

Sugar ^ C. 100 — — 100 410 1.50 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .60 

Soda pinch 

Vinegar 1 T. 

Total (cooked) 35 pieces 560 15 10 544 2385 7.70 

1 Serving 3i pieces 56 2 1 54 .77 

Calories per serving. ... 89 221 238 

Directions': 

Put molasses, sugar, oleo, and vinegar into a kettle or stewpan, and let 
mixture boil until brittle when tried in cold water. Add soda just before 
taking from fire, and vanilla if desired ; stir well and pour out into a 
buttered dish. When cool enough to handle, pull until light colored. Cut 
in sticks or small pieces. Wrap in wax paper to keep. Peppermint or 
wintergreen may be used for flavoring, or nuts added, and the candy cut 
in squares instead of pulling. 



68 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 16 PEANUT CANDY Makes 25 pieces U inches square 

Carbo- Cost 

Weieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.50 

Peanuts (shelled) I_C. 70 18 27 17 395 5.00 

Total (cooked) 25 pieces 250 18 27 217 1215 7.50 

1 Serving 2i pieces 25 2 3 22 121 .75 

Calories per serving. ... 8 28 86 122 

Directions: 

Shell and chop 1 pint of peanuts. Put the sugar in a clean frying pan ; 
place over the fire, and stir constantly until sugar melts and becomes light 
brown in color. Stir the chopped nuts in quickly, and pour at once into 
tin plate or pan. There is no need to grease the tin, as this candy does 
not stick. When candy is partly cool, cut in squares. Any nuts may be 
used in place of the peanuts. If the sugar is dried in the oven before it 
is melted in the frying pan, the candy cooks quicker. 



No. 17 PENUCHI Makes 25 pieces li inches square 

Carbo- Cost 
WeiRht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Brown sugar 2 C. 300 — — 285 1169 3.32 

Milk J C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.80 

Peanuts i C. 70 18 27 17 395 5.00 

Butter substitute IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

Vanilla ij. 1^ 

Total (cooked) 25 pieces 400 24 44 311 1784 11.75 

1 Serving 2i pieces 40 2 4 31 . 1.18 

Calories per serving. ... 8 37 127 172 

Directions: 

Boil together sugar and milk until mixture forms a soft ball when tried 
in cold water. Remove from the fire ; add butter substitute and vanilla ; 
cool, and beat until mixture is soft and creamy. Stir in nuts, pour into a 
greased tin or plate, and mark off in squares. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 69 

No. 18 CRACKED WHEAT Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weijfht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt 2 t. 

Cracked wheat (scant) . . . H C. 265 29 5 200 985 2.9 
Water (boiling) 6 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1230 29 5 200 985 

1 Serving 1 C. 246 6 1 40 .6^ 

Calories per serving 25 9 164 198 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the grain slowly to prevent lumping. If a 
double boiler is used, it is advisable, though not necessary, to cook the 
cereal over the fire for 5 minutes ; then cover, and replace the saucepan 
over boiling water in the lower part of the double boiler, and cook for 
5 hours. If a fireless cooker is used, the cereal can be cooked overnight. 
The cereal should be cooked over the fire 10 minutes, and the vessel placed 
in the cooker as quickly as possible, and allowed to remain for about 
12 hours, or overnight, and reheated the next morning. With the double 
boiler, it may be put on to cook at supper time, and left on the back of 
the stove all night, or put on to cook any time during the day and re- 
heated in the morning. 



No. 19 CREAM OF WHEAT Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt H t. 

Cream of wheat U C. 220 23 4 167 816 3.96 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 23 4 167 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 5 1 33 .m 

Calories per serving. .. . 21 9 135 165 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and 
cook for 40 minutes. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



70 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 20 FARINA Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
WeiKht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt H t. 

Farina U C. 225 25 3 172 836 2.5 

Water (boiling) 6-7 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 25 3 172 836 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 5 1 34 .5 

Calories per serving 21 9 139 169 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and cook 
for 45 minutes. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



No. 21 HOMINY Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

WeiKht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt H t. 

Hominy U C. 202 17 1 160 735 1.4 

Water (boiling) 5 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1225 17 1 160 735 

1 Serving 1 C. 245 3 * 32 147 .3 

Calories per serving 12 * 131 143 

Directions: 

Into boiling, salted water stir the cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and 
cook for 4 hours. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



No. 22 CORN MEAL Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weii^ht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt 2 t. 

Corn meal (scant) U C. 230 21 4 173 833 1.6 

Water (boiling) 5-6 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1285 21 4 173 833 1.6 

1 Serving 1 C. 257 4 1 35 .3^ 

Calories per serving 16 9 144 169 

Directions: 

First mix the cereal thoroughly till smooth with a little cold water to 
avoid lumping, and stir slowly into boiling, salted water, and cook for 
3 hours. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



71 



No. 23 FRIED CORN MUSH 



Directions: 

Pour cooked corn meal (Recipe No. 22) into greased baking powder 
tins ; cool, cover, and, when ready to use, cut in 2-inch slices and fry in 
hot salt pork fat or drippings. Serve with syrup, or if with meat, as a 
vegetable without the syrup. Hominy may also be prepared in the same 
way. Allow about f cup cooked cereal for each person served. 



No. 24 ROLLED OATS Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weierht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ties Cents 

Salt 2i t. 

Rolled oas 2* C. 175 29 13 116 715 1.57 

Water (boiling) 5-6 C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1250 29 13 116 715 1.57 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 6 3 23 .30 

Calories per serving 25 28 94 147 

Directions : 

Into boiling, salted water stir the cereal slowly to prevent lumping, and 
cook for 1 hour. 
See Recipe No. 18. 



No. 25 OATMfeAL CAKES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cen ts 

Oatmeal (cooked) 4 C. 1000 23 10 93 569 1.20 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Total (cooked) 6 cakes 800 30 15 93 644 3.20 

1 Serving 1 cake 133 5 3 16 .53 

Calories per serving 21 28 66 115 

Directions: 

Put left-over oatmeal into a small mold, and stand away to harden. When 
ready to use, turn it out and cut it in slices i inch thick, in strips about 
1 inch wide. Dip in egg, and fry. Dust with sugar, and serve for dessert 
or eat plain as meat course. 



72 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 26 BOILED MACARONI Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries C ents 

Macaroni H C. 150 20 1 111 546 3.0 

Boiling water ^ 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 600 20 1 111 546 3.0 

1 Serving 1 C. 100 3 * 19 .5_ 

Calories per serving. .. . 12 78 90 

Directions: 

Break macaroni into pieces 1 inch or longer ; cover with boiling, salted 
water and cook until tender, usually 20 minutes or thereabouts. Drain, 
turn into a colander, place under the cold water faucet, and let the cold 
water run through the macaroni until it is white and free from all the 
stickiness usually found when freshly boiled. Serve with cream sauce or 
season with salt and pepper and a little oleo. 



No. 27 MACARONI AND CHEESE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Cooked macaroni (No. 26) 8 C. 800 27 2 148 736 4.00 

White sauce (No. 89).... 2 C. 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 

Grated cheese j_C 50 1 18 * 225 2.40 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1200 61 81 193 1795 14.26 

1 Serving 1 C. 200 10 14 32 2.38 

Calories per serving 41 130 131 302 

Directions: 

Grease a pudding dish, put in a layer of cooked macaroni, spread with 
grated cheese and white sauce, and repeat until dish is full, having a layer 
of cheese on top. Place in oven until cheese melts, and serve hot. Bread 
crumbs may be sprinkled over the top and browned. Tomato sauce may 
be used in place of the white sauce, but the food then has a lower caloric 
value. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



1Z 



No. 28 MACARONI CROQUETTES Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Macaroni 1 C. 100 13 * 74 357 2.00 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.50 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 * 10 49 .16 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) lOcroqu't's 550 30 26 ,96 749 7.29 

1 Serving 2croqu't's 110 6 5 19 1.46 

Calories per serving. .. . 25 47 78 150 

Directions: 

Cook i package of macaroni in boiling, salted water until tender; then 
drain and chop fine. Heat 1 cup of milk, and when hot, stir into it a paste 
made from the oleo or fat and flour. Add salt and pepper and cook until 
thick, stirring constantly. Beat the egg yolk well, and gradually pour 
onto it the hot milk mixture. Return to the double boiler, and cook a few 
minutes longer. Add chopped macaroni ; remove from the fire, and when 
cool, shape. Beat the egg white slightly ; dip the croquettes first in 
crumbs, then in the egg white, then in crumbs again. Fry in deep, hot fat 
to a golden brown. Serve with cheese sauce. 



No. 29 RICE, STEAMED Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rice U C. 250 20 1 198 903 5.0 

Boiling water f C. 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1000 20 1 198 903 S.O 

1 Serving 1 C. 200 4 40 1.0 

Calories per serving 16 * 164 180 

Directions: 

Put rice in strainer and let cold water run over it several times. Then 
add washed rice to the boiling, salted water (H t. salt), and let it cook 
2 or 3 minutes, stirring with a fork to prevent its sticking; place over 
boiling water, and let it cook 45 minutes, or until kernels are soft; un- 
cover, and stir gently with a fork to let the steam escape. 



74 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 30 RICE CAKES Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Ce nts 

Boiled rice 4 C. 800 16 1 158 723 4.00 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 — 156 4.00 

Sugar 2JI\ 20 — — 20 82 .30 

Total Tcooked) 10 cakes 800 29 12 178 961 8.30 

1 Serving 2 cakes 160 6 2 36 1^ 

Calories per serving 25 19 148 192 

Directions: 

To boiled rice add eggs, sugar, and a sprinkling of nutmeg. (If not soft 
enough, add a little milk or melted oleo.) Shape into flat cakes about 
3 inch thick. Roll in bread crumbs and fry in deep fat or brown in just 
a little fat. Serve with brown sugar sj^rup. 



No. 31 RICE AND CHEESE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
VVeieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rice 1 C. 200 16 1 158 723 4.00 

Cheese (grated) 2 C. 200 58 72 1 912 9.60 

Total (cooked) 18 h. T. 834 74 73 159 1635 13.60 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 139 12 12 27 2.27 

Calories per serving 49 112 111 272 

Directions: 

Steam rice according to Recipe No. 29, and arrange in laj^ers in a greased 
pudding dish, with grated cheese between and on top. Place in oven until 
cheese melts and rice is thoroughly heated. If left-over boiled rice is on 
hand, use about 4 cups. 



No. 32 SCALLOPED RICE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weiifht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Boiled rice 3 C. 600 12 * 119 537 3.00 

Tomatoes f C. 150 2 * 6 33 1.50 

Butter substitute IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .45 

Bread crumbs i C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 2~C. 960 19 12 149 791 570 

1 Serving ^ C. 160 3 2 25 ^95 

Calories per serving 72 19 103 134 

Directions: 

Arrange alternate layers of boiled rice (No. 29) and fresh or canned 
tomatoes in a baking dish ; season with salt and pepper, cover with bread 
crumbs and a few dots of butter substitute or oleo, and bake until well 
heated through and the crumbs are browned. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



75 



No. 33 CHEESE FONDUE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cen ts 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Bread li C. 170 15 3 91 463 3.40 

Cheese U C. 170 49 61 1 772 7.99 

Butter substitute 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Soda crackers 10 60 6 6 44 261 1.31 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 3f C. 910 93 115 160 2107 20.60 

1 Serving f C. 182 19 23 32 4A2 

Calories per serving 78 214 131 423 

Directions: 

Break dry bread into small pieces or cut it in 1 inch squares, and soak in 
milk until soft. Melt butter substitute and add cheese. When cheese has 
melted, add the soaked bread, egg slightly beaten, and seasoning. Cook a 
short time, until mixture thickens, and serve on soda crackers, toast, or 
plain. Or grease custard cups or pudding dish, put in mixture, and brown 
in oven. 



No. 34 APPLE BETTY Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples 7 750 3 4 107 488 8.3 

Breadcrumbs 2i C. 180 21. 3 110 565 3.4 

Milk IC 183 6 7 9 127 1.8 

Butter substitute H T. 18 * 15 — 140 .7 

Sugar 4 T. 40 — — 40 164 .4 

Cinnamon i t. J_ 

ToT.'VL (cooked) 12 h. T. 930 30 29 266 1484 14.7 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 155 5 5 44 2^ 

Calories per serving. .. . 21 47 180 248 

Directions: 

Grease a pudding dish, cover bottom of dish with stale bread crumbs, 
add a layer of sliced, peeled apples, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon ; 
then add another layer of crumbs, then apples, etc., until dish is full ; 
pour enough milk through the pudding to moisten it (about i cup) 
before putting on top layer of crumbs. Place 4 or 5 dots of butter 
substitute on top, cover pudding with a plate ; bake until apples are 
tender, then remove plate and brown crumbs. If apples are juicy, milk 
may be omitted, as the juice from the fruit will be sufficient. In this 
case the pudding should be served with cold milk in order to keep the 
food value the same. Molasses may be used instead of sugar to 
sweeten and moisten the pudding, and gives an especially nice flavor. 



76 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 35 DUTCH APPLE CAKE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 2 C. 228 25 3 171 832 2.50 

Baking powder 3 t. 9 0.81 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Shortening (oleo) 3 T. 36 * 31 — .?8< 1.91 

Milk s C. 162 5 6 8 109 1.66 

Salt 1 t. 

Apples 5 500 2 3 71 2>17 5.50 

Sugar 3_I\ 30 — — 30 123 0.39 

Total (cooked) 6 pieces 665 39 48 280 1754 14.77 

1 Serving 1 piece 111 7 8 47 2.46 

3i" X 3i" 

Calories per serving 29 74 193 296 

Directions: 

Sift dry ingredients together; cut in the shortening with a knife, and 
add gradually the egg well beaten with the milk, mixing with a knife. 
Put on a floured board, roll out as thick as for biscuits, and put in a 
greased, floured, shallow pan. Pare, core, and quarter the apples ; cut 
the quarters into 3 or 4 slices, lengthwise, and press the sharp edges of 
the apples into the dough, arranging them in parallel rows. Sprinkle 
the apples with sugar, and bake till cake is done and apples soft. Serve 
hot with lemon sauce. 
See Recipe No. 88. 



No. 36 APPLE PUDDING 



Serves 6 



Material Measure 

Apple sauce (No. 58).... 15 h. T. 
Baking powder biscuit 
(No. 4) 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 

Calories per serving 

Directions : 

Make apple sauce according to 
dough according to Recipe No. 
cover with dough. Gash center 
crust is brown. Serve hot. 



Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



625 2 3 155 672 7.3 
360 31 40 180 1237 6.5 



985 


ZZ 


43 


335 


1909 


13.8 


164 


6 


7 


56 




2.3 



25 



65 230 320 



Recipe No. 58, and baking powder biscuit 
4. Grease pudding dish, put in sauce, and 
to let out steam, and bake in a hot oven till 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



11 



No. 37 APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples 5 (small) 510 2 3 72 331 5.5 

Sugar f C. 150 — — 150 615 2.0 

Tapioca (pearl) § C. 120 * * 106 435 1.2 

Lemon juice IT. 15 — — 1 4 .6 

Boiling water 4 C. 

Salt i_t 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 1200 2 3 329 1385 9.3 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 200 * 1 55 1.5 

Calories per serving. .. . — 9 226 235 

Directions: 

Wash tapioca ; add boiling water and salt, and cook over hot water till 
tapioca is transparent. Pare and quarter apples ; put in a greased baking 
dish, sprinkle the sugar over them, and cover all with the cooked tapioca. 
Bake in a moderate oven till the apples are soft. Serve either hot or cold. 
Dried fruit may be used if well soaked first, and peaches instead of apples. 



No. 38 BREAD PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Bread crumbs 2 C. 160 18 3 98 504 3.4 

Milk 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.0 

Eggs (beaten) 2 100 13 11 — 156 4.0 

Oleo (melted) 2 t. 8 * 7 — 65 .4 

Sugar ^ C. 100 — — 100 410 1.3 

Salt It. 

Vanilla, nutmeg, or spice |_t 

Total (cooked) M Z. 1110 64 60 247 1830 19.1 

1 Serving \ C. 185 11 10 41 3.2 

Calories per serving 45 93 168 306 

'Directions: 

Soak stale bread (about 6 slices) or bread crumbs for an hour in the 
milk; add other ingredients, mix well, and bake in a slow oven about 
1 hour. 



78 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 39 CHOCOLATE PUDDING Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat Iwdrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Cornstarch 4 T. 38 — — 34 139 .50 

Milk 3i C. 915 30 Zl 46 656 9.30 

Sugar f C. 125 — — 125 513 1.60 

Cocoa 2^ T. 18 4 5 7 92 1.48 

Salt * t. 

Vanilla |_t 1.00 

Total (cooked) 10 h. T. 775 34 42 212 1400 13.88 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 155 7 8 42 277 

Calories per serving 29 74 172 275 

Directions: 

Heat 3 cups of milk in the double boiler. Mix cornstarch, sugar, cocoa, and 
salt ; rub to a smooth paste with the rest of the cold milk ; then add to 
hot milk, stirring constantly to prevent lumping. Cook over hot water 
for 20 minutes ; add vanilla, and pour into a cold, wet bowl. 
This pudding is not quite so stiff as the cornstarch pudding, but may be 
made firmer by using more cornstarch. 



No. 40 CHOCOLATE FARINA PUDDING Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Sugar \Q. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Cocoa 2 T. 14 3 4 5 70 1.20 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 — 156 4.00 

Cooked farina 1 C. 250 5 1 34 169 .50 

Vanilla |_t LOO 

Total (cooked) 15 h. T. 708 37 36 163 1155 13.00 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 141 1 1 ZZ 2.60 

Calories per serving 29 65 135 229 

Directions: 

Put milk in double boiler, and when hot, add sugar and cocoa mixed with 
a little water; stir well, and gradually add cold, left-over farina, and 
lastly beaten eggs and vanilla. Turn into baking dish and brown in oven. 
To vary the dish, the whites of the eggs may be left out and the pudding- 
baked without them. Thej'^ should be beaten stiff with 2 T. of sugar, and 
spread over the pudding 5 or 10 minutes before it is done, and then the 
pudding put on the top grate of the oven till lightly browned. Bread 
pudding, tapioca, and various other baked puddings containing eggs may 
be prepared in this fashion. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



79 



No. 41 COTTAGE PUDDING 



Serves 7 



Directions: 

Make plain cake according to Recipe No. 7; serve hot with hot lemon 
sauce (Recipe No. 88). This makes an excellent pudding. A portion 
equals 2 pieces of cake and 4 T. of sauce. 



No. 42 CORNSTARCH PUDDING Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Cornstarch 4 T. 38 — — 34 139 .50 

Susar 6 T. 62 — — 62 254 .70 

Milk 24 C. 610 20 24 31 432 5.10 

Vanilla j_t LOO 

Total (cooked) 550 20 24 127 825 7.30 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 110 4 5 25 1.46 

Calories per serving 16 47 103 166 

Directions : 

Scald milk; mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt (i t.) with a little cold 
water, and add to scalded milk. Cook over hot water 20 minutes, stirring 
most of the time. Add vanilla, and pour into a cold, wet bowl or tin. 
When cold, turn out and serve. 

Be sure to cook long enough after adding the cornstarch, even though the 
mixture becomes thick quickly. This slow cooking improves the flavor 
and does away with the starchy taste so often noticed in cornsta.ch 
desserts. 



No. 43 CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cent s 

Milk 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.0 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 — 155 4.0 

Tapioca (pearl) 6 T. 84 * — 74 303 1.1 

Sugar 6 T. 60 — — 60 246 .7 

Salt it. 

Vanilla i_t. 1.0 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 954 45 50 183 1399 16.8 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 159 8 8 30 2^ 

Calories per serving. .. . 33 74 123 230 

Directions: 

Put tapioca, salt, and milk in double boiler and cook until the tapioca is 
transparent, stirring occasionally. Mix together egg yolks and sugar. Re- 
move tapioca from fire ; let cool a little, and add eggs and flavoring. 
Turn into a greased pudding dish ; make a meringue of the whites of the 
eggs by beating them stiff ; spread over pudding, and bake till pudding is 
browned. Or yolks and whites of eggs may be added together, and pud- 
ding baked till brown without the meringue. 



8o 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 44 CUSTARD Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 3 C. 732 24 29 37 520 7.5 

Eggs 3 150 20 16 — 231 6.0 

Sugar f C. 75 - - 75 308 .8 

Salt it. 

Nutmeg Grating 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 804 44 45 112 1059 14.3 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 134 7 8 19 2A_ 

Calories per serving 29 74 78 181 

Directions : 

Beat eggs slightly; add sugar, milk, and salt; pour into a greased pud- 
ding dish or cups ; grate nutmeg over the top ; set pudding dish in a pan 
of hot water, and bake slowly until pudding is firm. Try with a knife 
blade ; if it comes out clean, the custard is done. During the baking, care 
must be taken that water surrounding pudding does not boil. Serve cold. 



No. 45 STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weisht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Suet f C. 110 5 90 — 858 2.50 

Raisins ' 5 C. 80 2 3 61 286 2.00 

Flour...' 21 C. 313 34 3 234 1127 3.40 

Soda It. 

Salt H t. 

Molasses 1 C. 320 8 - 222 943 2.80 

Cinnamon it. i 

Ground clove it. > .10 

Nutmeg Grating ) 

MUk . 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.50 

Total (cooked) 12 slices 960 57 106 529 3389 13.30 

1 Serving 2 sUces 160 10 18 88 221 

Calories per serving 41 167 361 569 

Directions: 

Take skin off suet ; wipe, chop, and sprinkle with some of the flour. Then 
sift soda and other dry ingredients into the sifted flour; rub in the suet; 
add raisins, molasses, and milk. Mix and beat well. Pour the mixture into 
a well-greased lard pail or into baking powder tins, not filling more than 
two-thirds full. Grease and put on the cover ; set pail on a piece of iron 
or tin in a kettle containing enough boiling water to come halfway to the 
top. Cover the kettle and steam pudding for at least 2 hours. The water 
must not stop boiling, and more boiling water must be added from the 
tea kettle as it boils away. Serve hot with sauce. The raisins may be 
omitted. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



No. 46 FRUIT SHORTCAKE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Baking powder biscuit 

(Recipe No. 4) 6 biscuits 360 31 40 180 1237 6.5 

Sugar ^ C. 100 — — 100 410 1.3 

Oleo 3 T. 36 * 31 — 288 1.9 

Strawberries 1 box 450 4 3 32 176 10.0 

Total 6 pieces 946 35 74 312 2111 19.7 

1 Serving 1 piece 158 6 12 52 3.3 

Calories per serving 25 112 213 350 

With orange and banana instead of berries : 

Oranges 2 400 3 1 46 210 5.0 

Bananas 2 200 3 1 44 "SDr 2.5 

Total 6 pieces 1096 Z7 73 370 2347 17.2 

1 Serving 1 piece 183 6 12 62 2.9 

Calories per serving. .. . 25 112 254 391 

Directions: 

Make baking powder biscuit dough (Recipe No. 4) ; toss on a floured 
board, pat out i of an inch thick, put in a floured tin plate or shallow pan, 
and bake in a quick oven. When done, split open, spread with oleo, and 
cover with berries or other fruit which has been slightly crushed and 
sweetened to taste. Put the two halves together and spread more of the 
sweetened fruit on top. Serve hot. Any fresh or canned fruit may be 
used, or dried peaches or apricots, stewed. Sliced oranges and bananas 
are also very nice. 



No. 47 BAKED INDIAN PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk (scalded) 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.00 

Corn meal i C. 40 4 1 30 149 .30 

Molasses i C. 160 4 — 111 472 1.40 

Salt -it. 

Ginger ^ t. 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 850 40 40 190 1316 11.70 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 142 7 7 32 L95 

Calories per serving 29 63 131 225 

Directions: 

Pour scalded milk slowly on the com meal ; cook in the double boiler 
20 minutes ; add molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into a greased pudding 
dish and bake 2 hours in a slow oven. Serve plain with milk or lemon 
sauce. 



82 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 48 JUNKET Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 2i C. 610 20 24 31 432 5.10 

Sugar 2 T. 20 — — 20 82 .26 

Junket tablet i iO 

Total (cooked) 2i C. 630 20 24 51 514 5.86 

1 Serving i C. 126 4 5 10 U7 

Calories per serving. .. . 16 47 41 104 

Directions: 

Heat milk till lukewarm ; add sugar and tablet, which has first been thor- 
oughly dissolved in a teaspoonful of water. Mix well; flavor with a few 
drops of vanilla or a grating of nutmeg ; pour into cups, cover, and let 
stand in warm place till the mixture jellies. Keep in a cold place till ready 
to serve. 



No. 49 PRUNE JELLY Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Gram s Grams ries Cents 

Prunes f C. 150 3 — 93 394 3.30 

Gelatine 2 T. 16 15 — — 62 6.00 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.50 

Lemon juice i C. 60 — — 6 25 2.50 

Water 

Total (cooked) 10 h. T. 1000 18 — 299 1301 14.30 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 200 4 — 60 2^ 

Calories per serving 16 — 246 262 

Directions: 

Wash prunes and soak overnight in cold water. Boil in same water till 
tender ; stone and cut in quarters, saving water. Take i package of 
Knox's gelatine (granulated), and soak in i cupful of water 15 minutes. 
Add enough boiling water to prune water to make 2 cups, and pour over 
soaked gelatine ; then add sugar and juice of about 2 lemons. Strain and 
add cut prunes. Pour mixture into wet mold or crockery dish to set. Stir 
once or twice while cooling to prevent fruit from settling at the bottom of 
the dish. Serve cold. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS S3 



No. 50 PRUNE LOAF Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Prunes U C. 225 4 — 140 590 5.00 

Sugar ^ C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Baking powder biscuit 

(Recipe No. 4) 6 biscuits 360 31 40 180 1237 6.50 

Total (cooked) 900 35 40 420 2237 12.80 

1 Serving i 150 6 7 70 ZU 

Calories per serving 25 65 287 377 

Directions: 

Wash, soak, and cook prunes in a little water till tender enough to remove 
stones. Cut prunes in quarter or mash, and add sugar. Make baking 
powder biscuit dough (see Recipe No. 4) ; roll out thin, and over this 
spread the mashed and sweetened prunes. Roll over like a jelly roll, turn- 
ing up the ends to prevent filling from running out. Place in greased 
bread tin, and baste with a little water and sugar. Bake until crust is 
brown. Left-over stewed prunes may be used, about li cups. Raspberry 
jam, strawberry preserve, or any other cooked fruit may be used. 



No. 51 RICE PUDDING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.00 

Rice J C. 70 6 * 55 250 1.40 

Sugar i C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Salt l_t 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 800 38 39 204 1355 12.70 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 133 6 7 34 227 2.11 

Calories per serving 25 65 139 229 

Directions: 

Wash rice and put it in a greased pudding dish with sugar, salt, and milk. 
Mix well, and let stand for i hour or more ; then bake in a very slow 
oven for about 3 hours, stirring often at first. The pudding may be 
flavored with a grating oif nutmeg if liked, and served either hot or cold. 
Less sugar may be used. If the oven is too hot, the rice will be heavy and 
uncooked ; see that the heat is only moderate and the cooking slow. 



84 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 52 FISH, STUFFED AND BAKED Serves 8 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cen ts 

Fish 3J pounds 1472 253 4 — 1075 21.00 

Bread crumbs 1 C. 80 9 1 49 247 1.50 

Milk ^ C. 81 3 3 5 60 .83 

Butter substitute 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Salt and pepper To season 

Parsley 1 T. 

Total (cooked) 8 slices 1215 265 28 54 1568 24.23 

1 Serving 1 slice 152 33 4 7 3^ 

Calories per serving. .. . 135 Zl 29 201 

Directions: 

Clean and wipe about 3J pounds of cod or haddock ; stuff vi^ith dressing 
made of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, 1 T. melted butter substitute, parsley 
chopped fine, and milk, all inixed together. Sew fish together and rub 
over with salt. Place fish on narrow strips of cloth in a dripping pan, 
and bake in a hot oven from 35 to 40 minutes, basting often with the other 
tablespoonful of butter substitute, melted in hot water. To remove fish 
from pan, lift it by the strips of cloth. Take out strips of cloth and 
stitches, and serve hot with drawn butter sauce. 

If any of the fish is left over, it can be picked apart, mixed with an equal 
quantity of boiled or mashed potatoes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
chopped onion, and fried like hash. 



No. 53 FISH, BOILED Serves 1 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

1 Serving (cooked) 1 slice 100 22 * 3 — .02 

Calories per serving 90 — 12 102 

Directions: 

Clean the fish, wash and salt, and put in boiling water to which has been 
added a little vinegar, salt, and onion, and cook slowly till flesh leaves 
the bone, which will require from 10 to 15 minutes per pound. Drain, 
place fish on a hot platter, and serve with drawn butter sauce (Recipe 
No. 82) or white sauce (Recipe No. 90). 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



No. 54 CODFISH BALLS Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Boneless salt fish 2 C. 340 93 1 — 391 9.00 

Potatoes 4i C. 540 11 1 99 4o4 2.50 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

Pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 12 cakes 792 111 17 99 1023 14.13 

1 Serving 2 cakes 132 19 3 17 — 2.35 

Diameter, 2" 

Calories per serving. .. . 78 28 70 176 

Directions: 

Wash fish in cold water, soak for a couple of hours, change water, and 
put fish on back of stove in a saucepan till water boils. Then drain off 
water ; pick fish apart or cut in small pieces. Add fresh water and po- 
tatoes, washed, peeled, and cut in cubes. Boil till potatoes are soft ; drain, 
mash thoroughly, add egg, shortening, pepper, and salt if necessary. 
Beat well, shape in balls, sprinkle with flour, and fry in hot fat or pork. 



No. 55 CREAMED CODFISH Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Boneless salt fish. 2i C. 453 124 1 — 518 12.00 

White sauce (Recipe No. 
89) 2 C. 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 

Total (cooked) 3i C. 920 144 62 45 1352 19.86 

1 Serving § C. 184 29 12 9 — 3.97 

Calories per serving ... . 119 112 37 268 

Directions: 

Wash fish ; cover with cold water and soak overnight or for a couple of 
hours. Drain off water, add fresh water, and simmer gently on the back 
of the stove in a shallow pan. Do not let water boil, but cook till fish is 
soft. Pour off water ; pick fish apart ; make a white sauce according to 
Recipe No. 90 ; add fish to sauce, heat both together, and serve. 



No. 56 CODFISH HASH 

Directions: 

Prepare fish as for fish balls, omitting egg ; put in a frying pan with a 
little hot pork fat or suet ; stir till heated, and then cook slowly till brown 
underneath. Turn on a hot platter and serve. 



86 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 57 SALMON LOAF Serves 6 

Carbo- Co.>t 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salmon 3 C. 400 ^7 48 — 803 14.00 

Rice (boiled) 3 C. 600 17 1 146 678 3.00 

White sauce (Recipe No. 

89) 2 C. 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1440 124 110 191 2315 24.86 

1 Serving 1 C. 240 21 18 32 — 4.14 

Calories per serving 86 167 131 384 

Directions: 

Line a greased dish with boiled rice about i inch thick. Pick over a can 
of salmon, place in center of dish, cover with rice, and heat thoroughly 
in the oven. Turn onto a platter and serve with thick white sauce around 
it. If boiled rice is not on hand, boil about I cup. 



No, 58 APPLE SAUCE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weisht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples 6 600 2 3 85 385 6.6 

Sugar 7 T. 70 - - 70 287 .7 

Water 

Total (cooked) 15 h. T. 625 2 3 155 672 7.3 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 125 * 1 31 — 1.5 

Calories per serving — 9 127 136 

Directions: 

Pare, quarter, and core tart, juicy apples ; cover with water and cook 
until apples are tender, having a hot fire so that apples may cook rapidly. 
Mash smooth with a wooden spoon; sweeten to taste and cook enough 
longer to dissolve the sugar. 



No. 59 APPLE SAUCE, DRIED APPLES Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weieht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apples n C. 150 2 3 99 442 4.3 

Sugar i C. 50 - - SO 205 .6 

Water 

Total (cooked) 20 h. T. 887 2 3 149 647 4.9 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 177 * I 30 - 1.0 

Calories per serving. ... * g 123 132 

Directions: 

Wash apples, and soak overnight, or for 6 or 8 hours. Cover with water, 
add sugar, and cook till soft. 

Unless fresh apples sell for 2 cents a pound or less, it is cheaper to use 
dried apples for sauce or pudding. A larger portion must be served, 
however, to obtain the same food value as in fresh apples. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



8/ 



No. 60 BAKED APPLES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries C ents 

Apples (large) 6 900 3 3 97 438 6.60 

Sugar (1 T. 60 — — 60 246 .70 

Water 6_T. 

Total (cooked) 6 810 3 3 157 684 7.30 

1 Serving 1 135 1 1 26 — 1.21 

Calories per serving. .. . 4 9 107 120 

Directions: 

Wash and core about 2 pounds of tart, large apples. Place them in a bak- 
ing dish with a tablespoonful of sugar in center of each apple. Put 
1 tablespoonful of water for each apple in the bottom of the pan. Bake 
in a hot oven till apples are soft, basting often with the syrup in the pan. 
Serve either hot or cold. For variety, the centers may be filled with a 
few chopped raisins and nuts or a spoonful of marmalade. This will raise 
the value and increase the cost. 



No. 61 APRICOT SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Apricots 2i C. 340 16 3 213 967 10.50 

Sugar f_C 75 — — 75 308 .80 

Total (cooked) IS h. T. 900 16 3 288 1275 12.30 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 150 3 1 48 — 2.05 

Calories per serving. .. . 12 9 197 218 

Directions: 

Wash and soak overnight about i pound of fruit, and cook next morn- 
ing in the same water. If there is not enough to cover fruit, add more. 
When fruit is soft, remove it from saucepan, and add sugar to liquid. 
Cook till thick and pour over fruit. This makes a nice, syrup-like juice. 
Dried peaches may be prepared in the same way. The analysis is not 
given, l)ecause it could not be obtained. 



No. 62 BAKED BANANA Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Bananas 5 500 7 3 110 508 6.25 

Sugar 5_T. 50 — — 50 205 .65 

Total (cooked) 5 500 7 3 160 713 6.90 

1 Serving 1 100 1 1 32 — 1.3S 

Calories per serving. .. . 4 9 131 144 

Directions: 

Peel the bananas, cut lengthwise into halves, place in baking pan, sprinkle 

with sugar, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about 15 minutes. 
Serve hot. A little lemon juice improves the flavor. 



88 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 63 DATE AND PRUNE SAUCE Serves 9 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Ca!o- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries C ents 

Dates 2i C. 450 9 11 317 1439 10.00 

Prunes 2i C. 450 8—280 1181 10.00 

Total (cooked) 4 C. 1100 17 11 597 2620 20.00 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 123 2 1 66 — 2.22 

Calories per serving 8 9 271 288 

Directions: 

Soak prunes overnight or for a couple of hours ; cook in same water ; 
remove stones and add dates, cleaned and stoned. Cook mixture until 
thick, and add a little lemon juice for flavoring if desired. 
Use 1 pound each of dates and prunes, or cook a larger amount and put 
up in jars. 



No. 64 PRUNE SAUCE Serves 10 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Prunes 2i C. 450 8 — 280 1181 10.00 

Sugar 6jr 60 — — 60 246 .70 

Total (cooked) 50 prunes 1250 8—340 1427 10.70 

1 Serving 5 prunes 

and syrup 125 1 — 34 — 1.07 

Calories per serving. .. . 4 — 139 143 

Directions: 

Wash prunes and soak overnight in cold water. In the morning cook 
slowly in same water (if there is not enough to cover fruit, add more) 
until prunes are tender. Add sugar to taste. Some people do not add 
sugar, as they consider the prunes sweet enough. If sugar is added, take 
out prunes and boil juice and sugar till it is like a thin syrup; then iour 
it over the fruit. A little lemon may be added for flavoring. 



No. 65 RHUBARB SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Rhubarb 3 C. 400 2 3 14 94 3.00 

Sugar 1 C. 200 — — 200 820 2.50 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 540 2 3 214 914 5.50 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 90 * 1 36 — .91 

Calories per serving. .. . — 9 148 157 

Directions: 

Wash and cut in pieces about 1 inch long a pound of rhubarb. Put it in 
a stewpan with sugar and a very little water (i cup). Cook about i hour 
or until fruit is tender. There is so much water in the rhubarb that very 
little need be used in cooking. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



No. 66 CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Corned beef (brisket).... 2 pounds 900 165 223 — 2750 40.00 

Cabbage II pounds 850 13 3 49 282 10.00 

Total (cooked) 1000 178 226 49 3032 50.00 

1 Serving 2 si. meat & 

3h. T. cab. 200 36 45 10 — 10.00 

Calories per serving 148 419 41 608 

Directions: 

For 5 people buy about 2 pounds of brisket, which when cooked only 
equals about U pounds, due to loss of weight in cooking. Cover meat 
with boiling water and cook slowly until tender, about 3 hours. Take out 
the meat and boil the cabbage in the liquor in which the meat was cooked. 
Serve meat and cabbage together. 

Flank can be used instead of brisket, which would reduce the cost to 
5 cents per person. This would also furnish less protein per person 
(14 grams instead of 18), but this deficiency could be made up in some 
other way. 



No. 67 BRAISED BEEF Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Gram s ries Cents 

Meat H pounds 675 132 142 — 1862 24.00 

Flour 3 T. 21 2 * 16 74 .23 

Onion 1 90 1 * 9 41 .39 

Water 

Total (cooked) 6 slices 600 135 142 25 1977 24.62 

1 Serving 1 slice 100 23 24 4 — 4.10 

Calories per serving 94 223 16 322 

Directions: 

Wipe a thin slice of steak clean with a damp cloth, brush over with flour, 
and cut in pieces. Season with salt and pepper, place in a baking dish with 
a little water and a sliced onion ; cover and bake till tender. Vegetables 
may be added and cooked with the meat. 



90 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 68 FLANK STEAK, STUFFED AND BAKED WITH 

VEGETABLES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weicht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Gratns Grams Gra ms ries Cents 

Meat n pounds 600 1 IS 127 — 1665 19.00 

Onions II 180 3 1 18 95 .77 

Turnips 3 C. 320 4 1 26 132 2.50 

Carrots H C. 220 2 1 20 100 1.60 

Bread crumbs H C. 120 14 2 73 375 2.40 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 1900 141 132 137 2367 26.27 

1 Serving 1 si. meat & 

IC. veg. 317 24 22 23 — 4. 38 

Calories per serving. ... 98 205 94 397 

Directions: 

Wipe the steak clean with a damp cloth ; lay the meat flat on a board ; 
moisten bread crumbs with stock or hot water, add about 1 t. salt 
and i t. pepper, onion chopped fine, and chopped parsley if you have 
it. Spread this mixture evenly on the meat; then roll with the grain so 
that when sliced it will be cut across the grain. Tie with twine, turn- 
ing in the ends of the meat. Dice an onion, the carrots and turnips, and 
lay them in the baking pan; then put in the roll of meat and pour in 
enough stock or water to cover the vegetables. Cover the pan and place 
it in a slow oven to cook till meat is tender and vegetables soft. 



No. 69 POT ROAST 



Serves 1 



Material 



Measure 



Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 



Carbo- Cost 

Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 Serving (cooked) H si. 

Calories per serving 



150 



41 



12 



280 10.00 



168 



112 — 



280 



Directions: 

For 6 people buy 3 pounds of meat to allow for loss of weight in cook- 
ing, or, if possible, a heavier piece, which will cook better and allow for 
left-over scalloped meat or meat pie. In this case the additional cost may 
be figured on the next meal. Buy the top of the round, as it is clear meat 
and there is no waste. 

Sear the meat on all sides in fat; add water, cover the pot, and cook on 
the back of the stove or in the oven for 3 hours. 
Vegetables may be added for flavor. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



91 



No. 70 ROAST LAMB (forequarter) 



Serves 1 



Material 



Measure 



Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 



1 Serving (cooked) 1 slice with- 
out bone 90 



20 



27 



82 251 



333 n.00 

333 



Calories per serving. . . . 

Directions : 

For 5 people buy about 3 pounds of lamb, as the meat loses vveight in 
cooking, and v^^hen roasted only weighs about 900 grams. Of this, about 
half is bone and fat, so that each person only gets about 90 grams of 
solid meat. 

Parboil meat first in boiling water for about 1 hour to make it tender. 
Remove from water ; drain, place in baking pan, and dredge with salt, 
pepper, and flour. Bake until tender, basting frequently with the water in 
which it was boiled. This usually takes another hour. 



No. 71 HAMBURG STEAK Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weisrht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat 2 C. 450 94 48 — 828 18.00 

Cooked 300 94 48 — 828 

1 Serving 1 cake 50 16 8 138 3.00 

Calories per serving. ... 64 74 138 

Directions: 

Chop round of beef very fine ; season with salt, pepper, and a little 
chopped onion if desired, and shape into round, flat cakes about 3 inches in 
diameter. Have frying pan very hot; rub it over with a piece of fat; 
put in the cakes and let them cook about 5 minutes, turning them at first 
several times, and then letting them brown on each side. Serve with 
brown gravy (see Recipe No. 83). Two cups of bread may be added, 
and will give twice as many cakes as the plain meat. 



No. 72 MEAT BALLS WITH RICE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Ma terial Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat 3 C. 675 141 72 — 1248 27.00 

Boiled rice ;. 3 C. 600 12 * 119 537 3.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 10 balls 1050 153 72 119 1785 30.00 

1 Serving 2 balls 210 31 14 2 4 6^ 

Calories per serving 127 130 98 355 

Directions: 

Mix chopped meat with equal part of boiled rice (Recipe No. 29). Shape 
into cakes and fry as for hamburg steak (see Recipe No. 71), first sea- 
soning with salt and pepper. If the cakes do not stick together, add an 
egg. This increases the cost 2 cents and raises the food value somewhat, 
especially the protein. 



92 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 73 MEAT LOAF Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beef 2 C. 450 94 48 — 832 18.00 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Bread crumbs i C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5 slices 520 106 54 24 1035 20.75 

1 Serving 1 slice 104 21 11 5 4.15 

Calories per serving 86 102 21 209 

Directions: 

Have beef from round or shoulder finely chopped, and mix it with bread 
crumbs, egg slightly beaten, salt, pepper, and a little chopped onion or 
onion juice if liked. Shape into a roll or loaf, put into a baking pan, and 
bake 30 minutes, basting frequently with brown gravy (Recipe No. 83) or 
tomato sauce (Recipe No. 89). Serve with remainder of gravy or sauce. 



No. 74 MEAT PIE, BAKING POWDER CRUST Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beef 2 pounds 900 188 95 — 1654 36.00 

Flour 4 T. 28 3 * 21 98 .31 

Onion 1 120 2 * 12 57 .55 

Salt and pepper To season 

Water (boiling) 2 C. 

Baking powder biscuit 
(Recipe No. 4) 461 31 40 180 1237 6.50 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 1200 224 135 213 3046 43.36 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 200 37 23 36 723 

Calories per serving. .. . 152 214 148 514 

Directions: 

Wipe 2 pounds bottom of the round ; cut it in 1-inch pieces, and ar- 
range in layers in a pudding dish, sprinkling each layer with some of 
the flour mixed with salt and pepper. Add the boiling water, cover closely 
with an old plate, and cook slowly in the oven for 3 hours, or until 
meat is tender, but not cooked to pieces. If water boils away, add more. 
Remove from oven and cover with baking powder biscuit dough (see 
Recipe No. 4). Roll out dough, cut a hole in the center, and put crust 
loosely over the top of the meat, having the edge fit closely to the inside 
of the dish. Put dish back in oven, and bake till crust is brown. 
Any remnants of stew or cold meat may be prepared in the same way. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



93 



No. 75 MEAT PIE WITH POTATO CRUST Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Chopped meat 2 C. 450 94 48 — 832 18.00 

Boiled potatoes (mashed) 5 C. 800 20 1 167 776 3.33 

Butter substitute or drip- 
pings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Hot milk § C. 162 5 6 8 109 1.66 

Brown gravy (Recipe No. 

82) J C. — 1 10 5 118 .71 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 24 h. T. 1350 120 85 180 2021 24.60 

1 Serving 4 h. T. 225 20 14 30 410 

Calories per serving. . .. 82 130 123 335 

Directions: 

Mix cold chopped meat, any kind that is left over, or fresh chopped 
round if desired, with left-over brown grav^y or i of Recipe No. 83, and 
season with salt and pepper. Take 2 cups of mashed boiled potatoes 
(left-over or freshly prepared), and add hot milk, drippings or butter 
substitute, and seasoning, and beat well. Line greased pudding dish with 
some of the potatoes ; in the center place the chopped meat ; cover with 
the rest of the potatoes, and bake in the oven about 20 minutes, or until 
potato is golden brown. Serve hot. 



No. 76 SCALLOPED MEAT, MACARONI AND TOMATO 

Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Chopped meat 2 C. 450 94 48 — 832 18.00 

Cooked macaroni (Recipe 

No. 26) 6 C. 600 20 1 111 546 3.00 

Tomatoes ^ can 400 5 1 16 95 4.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 18 h. T. 1140 119 50 127 1473 25.00 

1 Serving 3 h. T. 190 20 8 21 4.10 

Calories per serving 82 74 86 242 

Directions : 

Brown an onion, finely chopped, in a small amount of fat in a frying pan, 
and sear the chopped meat in the same, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
Line a baking dish with boiled macaroni (see Recipe No. 26), and place 
meat in center. Pour over all i can of tomatoes or 2 cups of stewed ones. 
Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. Left-over cooked meat may be used 
in place of fresh meat. 



94 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 77 MEAT STEW Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Carrots 2 C. 360 4 1 33 16 2.50 

Potatoes 4^ C. 540 12 1 99 464 2.50 

Lamb (or beef) 2J pounds 1086 162 228 — 2785 35.00 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 * 10 49 .16 

Water 6 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5~C 1175 180 230 142 3459 40.16 

1 Serving 1 C. 235 36 46 28 8^ 

Calories per serving 148 428 115 691 

Directions: 

Have meat cut up (not too small) ; wash it and put it in kettle of boiling 
water; cook slowly over low fire for a couple of hours. Add seasoning 
and potatoes and carrots, which have been scraped or pared and cut in 
cubes. Cook another half hour or until vegetables are soft. Remove meat 
and add flour thickened with a little cold water to make gravy ; boil up 
and pour on platter ; add more water to gravy if enough is not in the 
kettle, and a little tomato if desired. Turnips and onions may also be 
added with the carrots and potatoes, or dumplings made like baking pow- 
der biscuits. The dough should be made softer by increasing the liquid 
to a scant cupful. (Recipe No. 4.) Drop by the spoonful into the boiling 
stew, and keep closely covered while cooking 12 minutes. 



No. 78 SMOKED SHOULDER Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Meat 2i pounds 1125 179 366 — 4005 53.00 

Cooked 675 179 366 — 4005 

1 Serving 1 si. with- 

outbone 135 36 73 10.60 

Caloriets per serving 148 679 827 

Directions: 

For 5 people buy about 3i pounds of shoulder, as this is about as small a 
shoulder as can be obtained. The loss in cooking and waste due to bone, 
fat, etc., leaves only about H pounds edible portion. Cover with cold 
water, heat to boiling point ; then cook slowly until tender, about 3 hours. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



95 



No. 79 LETTUCE SALAD 








Serves 5 


Material Measure 


Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 


Lettuce 1 head 

1 Serving 4 leaves 


250 3 
50 1 


1 
* 


7 

1 


50 5.00 
1.00 



Calories per serving. ... 4 48 

Directions: 

Remove the green, tough leaves from a head of lettuce. Break off the 
tender leaves one by one, and rinse thoroughly in cold water. Shake off 
the water and lay the leaves on a piece of cheesecloth, and put the lettuce, 
wrapped lightly in this cloth, on ice. At serving time, pour over a French 
or boiled salad dressing, tossing the leaves lightly, so that all are coated 
with the dressing. 



No. 80 POTATO 


SALAD 










Serves 5 


Material 


Measure 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


Fat 
Grams 


Carbo- 
hydrate 
Grams 


Cost 
Calo- in 
ries Cents 


Boiled potatoes 


5 C. 


750 
150 


19 
4 


1 
* 


157 
31 


731 5 00 


1 Serving , 


1 c. 


100 









16 



127 143 



Calories per serving. . . . 

Directions : 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in i-inch cubes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
add a very little onion juice, and mix with a little chopped parsley. 
Moisten with French salad dressing (Recipe No. 120), and serve plain or 
on lettuce leaves. If desired, cut up a few cold boiled beets that have 
stood in vinegar for a short time, and use as a garnish. 



No, 81 VEGETABLE SALAD Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Boiled carrots 1 C. 200 1 * 9 41 1.60 

Boiled beets H C. 260 6 * 19 103 2.50 

Boiled potatoes U C. 225 6 * 47 217 1.50 

Canned peas 1 C. 160 6 3 16 118 4.30 

Celery 1 C. 100 1 * 3 16 1.30 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total 6 C. 945 20 3 94 495 11.20 

1 Serving 1 C. 157 3 1 16 1^ 

Calories per serving 12 9 66 87 

Directions: 

Cut up cold, cooked vegetables — carrots, beets, potatoes, peas, and celery, 
or carrots, Ijeets, lima beans, and celery, or whatever combination is on 
hand — and serve on lettuce leaves with boiled or French dressing. If 
the vegetables are seasoned the first thing in the morning, and mixed with 
a small quantity of French dressing, covered, and allowed to stand in a 
cold place, the salad will taste much better. Just before serving, put vege- 
tables on lettuce leaves, and add inore French or boiled dressing. 



96 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 82 DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE Serves 8 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oleo or drippings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 — 10 49 .16 

Water 1 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 1 C. 224 2 20 10 235 1.43 

1 Serving J_C 28 * 3 1 .IS 

Calories per serving. ... 28 4 32 

Directions: 

Melt oleo or fat, add flour, salt, and pepper, stir till smooth, remove from 
fire; vi^hen cool, add cold water; mix well, put back over fire, and stir 
constantly till the sauce thickens and boils. A chopped, hard-boiled egg 
may be added before serving, or chopped parslej^ or a few capers if liked. 



No. 83 BROWN GRAVY Serves 9 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries- Cents 

Flour 3 T. 21 2 — 16 74 .23 

Oleo or drippings 3 T. 36 * 31 — 288 1.91 

Water 2} C. 

Total (cooked) 2i C. 2 31 16 362 2.14 

1 Serving ^_C * 3 2 .24 

Calories per serving 28 8 36 

Directions: 

Melt oleo or fat in spider ; add flour, stirring constantly, and cook till 
brown. Then add water slowly ; continue to stir till gravy is thick. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper and add onion juice, tomatoes, or ketchup if 
desired. 
For li cups use 2 T. each oleo and flour and li cups of water. Serves 6. 



No. 84 BROWN SUGAR SYRUP Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries C ents 

Brown sugar 2 C. 300 — — 285 1170 3.32 

Water 1_C 

Total (cooked) 10 T. 180 285 1170 

1 Serving 2_T. 36 57 234 .70 

Calories per serving 234 234 

Directions: 

Put sugar and water in saucepan on stove, and stir while the sugar dis- 
solves. Boil until it thickens (about 5 minutes). Do not stir while it is 
cooking. Cool before serving. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



97 



No. 85 CARAMEL SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Sugar f C. 150 — — 150 615 2.00 

Boiling water i C. 

Total (cooked) 12 T. 240 150 615 2.00 

1 Serving 2JI\ 40 25 .33 

Calories per serving. .. . 103 103 

Directions: 

Put granulated sugar in frying pan ; stir constantly over hot part of the 
range until it has melted to a syrup of light brown color ; add water 
slowly ; simmer 10 minutes. Cool before serving. 



No. 86 CHEESE SAUCE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 

Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oleo IT. 6 * 5 — 47 .32 

Flour i T. 4 * * 3 28 .05 

Milk 1 C. 244 8 10 12 175 2.50 

Cheese i_T^ 10 3 4 — 50 .48 

Total (cooked) f C. 150 11 19 15 300 3.35 

1 Serving U T. 30 2 4 3 ^ 

Calories per serving 8 37 12 57 

Directions: 

Melt oleo ; add flour and grated cheese. When well mixed, add milk. 

Heat, stirring constantly until it comes to the boiling point ; then serve 
on croquettes. If the flavor of cheese is liked, more may be added. 



No. 87 HARD SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oleo 3 T. 36 * 31 — 288 1.90 

Powdered sugar ^ C. 8C — — 80 328 1.60 

Vanilla or * t. 1.00 

Nutmeg to flavor 

Total 6 h. t. 116 * 31 80 616 4.50 

1 Serving 1 h. t. 19 5 13 .75 

Calories per serving 46 53 99 

Directions: 

Cream oleo and gradually work in the sugar. Add flavoring; pack 
smoothly in a small dish ; cover and set in a cold place till ready to use. 
i cup mashed strawberries may be beaten into the sauce in place of the 
vanilla, and granulated sugar may be used in place of the powdered ; use 
about i of a cup. 



98 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 88 LEMON SAUCE Serves 10 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Sugar ^ C. 100 — — 100 410 1.30 

Cornstarch IT. 9 — — 8 33 .20 

Lemon juice IT. 15 — — 1 4 - .60 

Oleo i T. 6 * 5 — 47 .30 

Water 1_C 

Total (cooked) li C. 325 * 5 109 494 2.40 

1 Serving 2J[\ 32 * 1 11 .24 

Calories per serving. ... 9 45 54 

Directions: 

Boil sugar and water together with lemon rind for 2 or 3 minutes. Take 
out and throw away the lemon rind ; add cornstarch that has been mixed 
till smooth with a little cold water, and cook for 5 minutes or till very 
clear, stirring all the time. Add the juice of half a lemon and the oleo, 
and when oleo has melted, serve. Orange or other fruit juice may be 
used in place of the lemon juice, and then less sugar is required. 



No. 89 TOMATO SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Tomatoes (canned) i can 400 5 1 16 95 4.00 

Oleo or drippings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 * 10 49 .16 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 12T.(fC.) 240 7 21 26 330 5.43 

1 Serving 2 T. 40 1 4 4 ^ 

Calories per serving 4 37 16 57 

Directions: 

Melt drippings, oleo, or other shortening in a saucepan, and cook in it a 
little chopped onion till onion is a golden brown ; then stir in flour mixed 
with salt and pepper ; stir till smooth, add the tomato, strained, and stir 
till the mixture thickens. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



99 



No. 90 WHITE SAUCE Serves 12 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Flour 4 T. 28 3 * 21 98 .31 

Oleo 4 T. 48 * 41 — 381 2.55 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Total (cooked) 2 C. 480 19 61 45 829 7.86 

1 Serving 2J\ 40 2 5 4 ^ 

Calories per serving. .. . 8 47 16 71 

Directions : 

Melt oleo, drippings, or crisco, being careful not to brown ; add flour 
slowly, and when thoroughly mixed, add milk, stirring constantly till 
thick. Or milk may be scalded, a small amount first being mixed with 
the flour, the mixture slowly added to the milk, and the whole stirred 
till smooth and thick. The oleo is added last, and salt and pepper to taste. 
More milk makes a thinner sauce, and more flour a thicker one. 
Drippings or crisco may be used in place of oleo, and will lessen the cost. 



No. 91 CORN CHOWDER Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Corn (1 can) 2i C. 580 16 7 110 582 12.00 

Milk (hot) 4 C. 976 32 39 48 691 10.00 

Potatoes 2§ C. 400 9 1 74 350 1.80 

Onion (chopped) 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

Water (boiling) 2 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 8 C. 2000 57 57 232 1716 24.43 

1 Serving U C. 333 10 10 39 4.07 

Calories per serving. .. . 41 93 160 294 

Directions: 

Melt oleo, fat, or pork scraps in frying pan and add chopped onion, and 
cook for 5 minutes ; then add 2 cups boiling water and potatoes pared 
and cut in small pieces. Cook till potatoes are soft. Add corn, seasoning, 
and hot milk, and cook till milk comes to the boiling point. 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 92 FISH CHOWDER Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Haddock (or cod) 2 pounds 900 155 3 — 663 12.00 

Potatoes 4 450 10 — 83 381 2.00 

Onion i 20 — — 2 8 .10 

Milk (scalded) 2 C. 488 16 20 24 358 5.00 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.30 

Crackers 6 60 7 5 43 252 .90 

Salt and pepper To season 

Water 6_C 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1420 188 48 152 1848 21.30 

1 Serving 1 C. 284 38 10 30 4.26 

Calories per serving. . . . 156 93 123 372 

Directions: 

Have skin, head, and bones removed from fish at market, and take them 
home with the fish. Cut the fish in 1-inch pieces ; put head, skin, and 
bones in kettle vi^ith cold water ; allow them to come slowly to the boil- 
ing point, and simmer i hour. Strain this water and return it to the 
kettle, throwing away the head, bones, and skin, but picking off and add- 
ing to the water any fish that may have stuck to the bone. Fry the onion, 
cut in small pieces, till brown in fat or pork or oleo, and strain fat into 
kettle, adding fish and potatoes, pared and cut in cubes or slices. Or 
onion may be added with the fat without straining. Cook until potatoes 
are soft. Do not break the fish by stirring. Add hot milk and seasoning. 
Put the crackers in a soup dish, and soften them with a little cold milk 
before pouring the hot chowder over them. Serve at once. 



No. 93 CEREAL OR FARINA SOUP Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Milk 4 C. 976 32 39 49 695 10.00 

Water 4 C. 

Farina or cream of wheat 

(raw) 1 C. 180 20 3 137 672 1.98 

Eggs 2 100 13 11 * 156 4.00 

Grated cheese i C. 50 14 18 * 225 2.40 

Salt 2_L 

Total (cooked) ....... 8 C. 2000 79 71 186 1748 18.38 

1 Serving U C. 333 13 12 31 3.06 

Calories per serving 53 112 127 292 

Directions: 

Beat eggs slightly and add about 1 cup of milk. Put the rest of the milk 
and the water into a saucepan, and bring it to a boil. Add the salt and 
stir in the farina slowly. Cook 45 minutes and add the grated cheese 
slowly, stirring constantly. Then add beaten eggs and milk. If too thick, 
add more milk or water. 

Instead of 2 pints of milk and 2 of water, 3 pints of milk and 1 pint of 
water may be used. This raises the food value and increases the cost. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



No. 94 LENTIL SOUP Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams G rams ries Cents 

Lentils 2 C. 400 103 4 237 1431 12.80 

Melted fat 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Flour 2 T. 14 2 * 10 49 .16 

Onion i 50 1 * 5 25 .22 

Water 16 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 7~C. 1750 106 24 251 1691 14.08 

1 Serving U C. 291 18 4 42 2J5 

Calories per serving 74 37 172 283 

Directions : 

Wash lentils ; soak in cold water overnight. Next morning drain off 
vi^ater, and put lentils in kettle with cold water and sliced onion. Simmer 
slowly for 3 to 4 hours, or until they are tender. Mash through strainer ; 
return to kettle, adding more water if necessary. Cook the flour in the 
melted fat, and add to the soup with salt and pepper to taste. Some peo- 
ple think a little tomato improves the flavor. 



No. 95 OATMEAL AND POTATO SOUP Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Gra'ms Grams r ies Cents 

Potatoes 8 1000 22 1 184 854 4.57 

Rolled oats i C. 40 7 3 26 163 .36 

Onions 2 200 3 1 20 104 .80 

Butter substitute or drip- 
pings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Salt 

Soup greens 1.00 

Water 12 C. 

Total (cooked) IOC. 2250 32 25 230 1307 763 

1 Serving 2 C. 450 6 5 46 1.53 

Calories per serving 25 47 189 261 

Directions: 

Put 3 quarts of water to boil with salt. Cook a little more than i cup of 
oatmeal in the boiling, salted water 15 to 20 minutes. Add potatoes, peeled 
and cut in cubes, and boil i hour longer, or until potatoes are cooked. 
In the meantime, fry onions in the fat with the chopped soup greens. 
Add this to the potato and oatmeal mixture. Season to taste. If a 
thicker soup is desired, more oatmeal may be used. 



LOS ANGELES 

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL 

LIBRARY 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 96 SCOTCH BARLEY SOUP Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Water 8 C. 

Pearl barley ^C. 100 9 1 78 366 1.10 

Drippings or butter substi- 
tute 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Carrots iC. ISO 2 1 14 75 .90 

Turnips i C. SO 1 * 4 21 .40 

Onion i SO 1 * 5 25 .22 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1200 13 22 101 673 3.52 

1 Serving 1 C. 240 3 4 20 70 

Calories per serving. ... 12 37 82 131 

Directions: 

Cook barley in frying pan with hot fat for 5 minutes ; then put in sauce- 
pan with boiling water, and cook slowly. Cut up carrots, turnips, and 
onion after peeling them, and fry them in the other tablespoonful of fat; 
add the vegetables to the barley and water, and let all cook slowly for 
2 hours. Season with salt and pepper. Add more water if soup is too 
thick. Potatoes may also be added. 



No. 97 SPLIT PEA SOUP Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Peas 2 C. 400 98 4 248 1456 5.30 

Water 16 C. 

Onion i 50 1 * 5 25 .20 

Fat 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 .90 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1470 99 24 253 1667 6.40 

1 Serving 1 C. 245 17 4 42 UO 

Calories per serving 70 37 172 279 

Directions: 

Look the peas over; wash and soak them in cold water overnight. Pour 
off the water and put them in a kettle with 4 quarts of water, and sim- 
mer slowly for 4 or 5 hours, or until thoroughly cooked. Add more water 
during the cooking if necessary. (If not cooked enough, the thick part 
will settle.) Cook the onion in butter or fat, and strain into the soup; 
add salt and pepper to taste. Salt pork or sausage may be cooked in the 
soup if desired. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



103 



No. 98 BAKED BEANS Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beans U C. 300 68 5 179 1059 5.40 

Fat meat, corned beef, or 

pork i pound 150 23 39 — 457 5.00 

Molasses i C. 80 2 — 55 234 .70 

Salt and pepper To season 

Mustard it 

Onion 1 slice 

Hot water 1 C. 

Total (cooked) 5~C. 925 93 44 234 1750 lUO 

1 Serving 1 C. 185 19 9 47 2.22 

Calories per serving 78 84 193 355 

Directions : 

Soak beans overnight. In the morning, parboil until the skin cracks. 
Drain off water and put beans in the bean pot. Scald and scrape about 
4 of a pound of pork, and cut through the rind in i-inch strips. Bury 
pork in the beans ; mix salt, mustard, molasses, and hot water, and pour 
over the beans. Cover and bake slowly for 6 or 8 hours, until beans are 
soft. Add more hot water as needed, and a small onion if liked. Uncover 
pot for the last hour and lift up the pork, that it may become crisp and 
brown. Instead of the pork, a piece of any smoked meat may be used — 
corned beef, tongue, etc. If light-color beans are desired, only use 2 T. 
of molasses, or use sugar in place of molasses. Butter or oleo or any fat 
■may be used in place of the meat. 



No. 99 BAKED BEAN LOAF WITH TOMATO SAUCE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Baked beans (Recipe No. 

98) 4 C. 740 74 36 187 1405 8.80 

Bread crumbs 1 C. 80 9 2 49 252 1.50 

Tomato sauce (Recipe No. 

89) I C. 240 7 21 26 331 5.43 

Total (cooked) 5 C. 1125 90 59 262 1988 15.73 

1 Serving 1 C. 225 18 12 52 US 

Calories per serving 74 112 213 399 

Directions: 

Mash left-over baked beans ; season with salt and pepper and a little 
onion juice, or chopped onion if liked. Mix with bread crumbs and form 
into a loaf. Bake in a greased pan, basting frequently with some of the 
tomato sauce (see Recipe No. 89) until the loaf is thoroughly heated. 
Serve with the remainder of the sauce. 



104 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 100 BAKED BEAN STEW Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grains Grams Grams Grams ries C ents 

Baked beans 3 C. 555 56 27 141 1059 6.60 

Carrots 1 C. 200 2 1 19 96 1.28 

Potatoes 2 C 300 7 * 55 254 1.54 

Turnips U C. 140 2 * 11 53 1.12 

Onions i 50 1 * 5 25 .22 

Oleo or drippings 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Water 6 C. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 8 C. 1920 68 48 231 1673 12.03 

1 Serving U C. 320 11 8 39 2^ 

Calories per serving 45 74 160 279 

Directions: 

Melt fat in saucepan and add onion, sliced fine ; cook till brown. Then 
add vegetables, which have been peeled and cut in cubes, and toss in fat 
and onion for about 15 mmutes ; pour over them about 6 cups of water 
or vegetable broth ; add salt and pepper to taste, and let simmer for 
i hour. Add more water if necessary, and about 15 minutes before serv- 
ing, stir in left-over baked beans. Add a little tomato if desired. This 
recipe requires about a cup of dried beans to give 3 cups of cooked beans. 



No. 101 LIMA BEANS Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hvdrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Lima beans i C. 150 27 2 99 535 2.96 

Boiling water 

Total (cooked) 2i C. 375 27 2 99 535 2.96 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 75 5 * 20 .59 

Calories per serving 21 * 82 103 

Directions: 

Wash dried lima beans well ; cover with warm water and soak 12 hours, 
or overnight. Drain, cover with boiling, salted water, and cook until 
tender. This will require about 2 hours. Let the water evaporate until 
just enough to moisten the beans well is left. Season with salt, pepper, 
and 2 T. of oleo or drippings. Cold lima beans may be used in salads and 
in vegetable hash. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



105 



No. 102 SCALLOPED LIMA BEANS Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beans 2 C. 400 72 6 264 1433 8.00 

Tomatoes 1 can 800 10 2 32 191 8.00 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Breadcrumbs i C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1800 87 29 320 1938 18.02 

1 Serving 1 C. 300 15 5 53 3.00 

Calories per serving 62 47 217 326 

Directions : 

Cook beans till tender ; drain, and arrange in baking dish with alternate 
layer of tomato. Put bread crumbs on top and dot with oleo. Season with 
salt and pepper, and bake in oven till beans are warmed through and 
crumbs are browned. Serve hot. 



No. 103 BEAN PUREE Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beans 3 C. 600 135 11 358 2124 10.80 

Milk. a C. 366 12 15 18 263 3.75 

Drippings or butter substi- 
tute H T. 18 * 15 — 140 .63 

Sugar i T. 6 — — 6 25 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 5~C. 1250 147 41 382 2552 IsIs 

1 Serving 1 C. 250 29 8 76 3m 

Calories per serving. .. . 119 74 312 505 

Directions: 

Soak dried beans overnight. Stew them in water until very tender (about 
H hours), changing the water after they first come to a boil. Drain well 
and rub through a sieve, or mash. Put the beans in the stewpan agairr 
with the fat, seasoning, and enough milk to make it like a cereal. Cook 
over boiling water for 1 hour ; stir often, and add more hot milk if needed. 
If liked, a little onion may be fried in the fat or in bacon and added to 
give flavor, or the puree may be made into cakes and fried. Dried peas 
may be used instead of beans. 



io6 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 104 BEAN LOAF Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Bean puree (Recipe No. 

103) 3 C. 750 88 24 229 1523 9.09 

Breadcrumbs f C. 100 12 2 61 318 2.55 

Brown gravy (Recipe No. 

83) 2i C. 3 31 16 366 2.14 

Total (cooked) 3i C. 950 103 57 306 2207 13.78 

1 Serving f C 190 21 11 61 276 

Calories per serving 86 102 250 438 

Directions: 

Take left-over puree (Recipe No. 103) ; moisten with brown gravy (see 
Recipe No. 83) and mix with bread crumbs. Form in a loaf, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs over the top, and brown in the oven, basting with 
remainder of gravy. If left-over puree is not on hand, stew dried beans 
(about 2 cups), as for puree, and form in loaf, or mash instead of put- 
ting through the strainer. 



No. 105 STEWED BEANS AND TOMATO SAUCE Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Beans 2 C. 400 90 7 238 1410 7.20 

Tomato sauce (Recipe No. 
89) f C. 240 7 21 26 331 5.43 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 1540 97 28 264 1741 12.63 

1 Serving 1 C. 257 16 5 44 2AI 

Calories per serving. ... 66 47 180 293 

Directions: 

Soak beans overnight ; drain oflF water in the morning ; put beans in 
kettle or stewpan, with enough water to cover and a pinch of soda. 
When water comes to a boil, drain off and add fresh water. Cook slowly 
for 4 to 5 hours, or until beans are tender. Season with salt and pepper, 
and pour over them hot tomato sauce (see Recipe No. 89). This can also 
be made into a loaf, as in Recipe No. 104. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



107 



No. 106 BOILED BEETS 



Serves 5 



Material 



Measure 



Weight Protein 
Grams Grams 



Cost 



Carbo- 
Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Grams Grams ries 



Cents 



Boiled beets 5 1000 23 

1 Serving 1 200 5 



74 407 6.25 



15 



1.25 



21 



62 



83 



Calories per serving. . . . 

Directions: 

Wash but do not scrape about 2h pounds of beets, and cook in boiling 
water for about 3 hours, or until soft. Drain and put in cold water ; rub 
off skins, cut in small pieces, and serve hot, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
and 2-h T. of oleo ; or cover with vinegar, and serve cold. 



No. 107 BEET GREENS OR SPINACH 



Serves 6 



Material 



Measure 



Carbo- 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- 
Grams Grams Grams Grams ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



2 h.T. 


100 


2 


4 


3 


57 


2.50 






8 


Z7 


12 


57 




2 h. T. 


" 100 


2 


3 


3 


48 


2.50 



28 



12 



48 



Cooked spinach 2 h. T. 

Calories per serving. . 

Cooked beet greens 2 

Calories per serving. . 

Directions: 

Cut off roots ; break the leaves apart, and drop them into a large pan of 
water; rinse well, and continue washing till thoroughly free from sand. 
Put in a kettle with a little water and salt, and cook till tender, about 
30 minutes. Drain through colander, chop fine, and season, adding about 
3 or 4 tablespoonsful of drippings. 

As it takes about 1 peck of greens to serve a family of 6, unless the 
greens sell for about 10 cents a peck, they are not an economical food. 
Cabbage, string beans, chard, dandelion greens, kale, or squash may be 
cheaper, and can be substituted for the spinach to supply the very neces- 
sary green vegetable. 



No. 108 CARROTS AND CANNED PEAS Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Canned peas Zi C. 560 20 1 55 317 15.00 

Boiled carrots 21 C. 500 3 1 23 116 4.00 

Total Vc. 1060 23 2 78 433 lOOO 

1 Serving 1 C. 177 4 * 13 117 

Calories per serving 16 * 53 69 

Directions: 

Wash and scrape carrots ; cut in halves and cook in boiling, salted v/ater 
45 minutes, or till soft ; drain and cut in cubes. Open a can of peas, 
drain off liquid, and add peas to carrots. Season with salt and pepper, 
add about 2 T. oleo or crisco, heat vegetables through, and serve. 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 109 LENTIL HASH Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries C ent» 

Lentils f C. 150 39 2 89 543 4.66 

Rice f C. ISO 12 * 119 537 3.00 

Drippings or oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Onion (chopped) 2 T. 

Salt and pepper To season 

Parsley (chopped ) 

Celery (chopped) 2 T. 

TorAL (cooked) 5 C. 1200 51 22 208 1266 8.93 

1 Serving 1 C. 240 10 4 41 1.79 

Calories per serving 41 37 168 246 

Directions: 

Look over lentils ; wash and soak overnight in cold water ; drain off 
water, add lentils to fresh boiling water, and cook till soft. Wash and 
boil rice (Recipe No. 29). Cook separately 2 T. drippings, chopped onion, 
pepper, and salt, until onion is soft; then add, if you have it, chopped 
celery and a little chopped parsley, and cook 15 minutes ; combine this 
with the rice and the lentils, and cook a few minutes longer. Lentil Loaf 
may be made by mashing the lentils before combining them with the rice 
and seasoning, adding brown gravy to moisten, and baking in a loaf till 
well browned. 



No. 110 ONIONS, BOILED Serves 5 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Onions 5 500 8 2 50 256 2.W 

Water 

Salt 

Total (cooked) 425 8 2 50 256 

1 Serving 1 85 2 * 10 ^ 

Calories per serving 8 41 49 

Directions: 

Cut off the roots, peel, and put into cold water. Drain and cover well with 
boiling water, adding 1 teaspoonful of salt for each quart of water. 
Cook till tender. Serve with a little oleo and pepper, or white sauce. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



109 



No. Ill SCALLOPED ONIONS Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Onions 6 600 10 2 63 318 2.48 

Breadcrumbs ^ C. 40 5 1 24 128 .75 

Oleo IT. 12 * 10 — 93 .63 

White sauce (Recipe No. 

90) U C. 360 15 45 34 620 5.90 

Total (cooked) 6 840 30 58 121 1159 9.76 

1 Serving 1 140 5 10 20 L63 

Calories per serving. ... 21 93 82 196 

Directions : 

Peel and boil onions; drain; add H cups of white sauce (f Recipe 
No. 90). Place in a greased baking dish and cover vi^ith bread crumbs. 
Dot the top with oleo and bake on the grate of oven till brown. Onions 
prepared this way have a much more delicate flavor than when served 
boiled, with white sauce. 



No. 112 BAKED POTATOES 



Serves 5 



Material 



Measure 



Weight Protein Fat 
Grams Grams Grams 



Carbo- 
hydrate Calo- 
Grams ries 



Cost 

in 
Cents 



Baked potatoes 5^ 

1 Serving 1 

Calories per serving. . . . 



650 19 



1 160 743 5.00 



130 



32 



1.00 



16 



131 147 



Directions: 

Thoroughly wash the potatoes and bake in a hot oven 45 minutes, or till 
potatoes are soft. When done, break open the skins to let the steam 
escape. If any potatoes are left over, peel them while warm, and save to 
cut up for salad or to fry. 



No. 113 BOILED POTATOES (For composition, see Recipe No. 80) 



Directions : 

Wash and pare 5 potatoes oi about the same size, and let them stand 
in cold water i hour. Cook in about 1 quart of boiling, salted water 20 to 
30 minutes, or till tender. Drain, uncover, and shake gently over the fire 
till dry. 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 114 SCALLOPED POTATOES Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Potatoes 8 1000 22 1 184 854 4.57 

Flour 2 t. 8 1 * 6 29 .08 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Milk 2 C. 488 16 20 24 350 5.00 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 12 h. T. 560 39 41 214 1419 10.92 

1 Serving 2 h. T. 93 7 7 36 1.82 

Calories per serving 29 65 148 242 

Directions : 

Wash, pare, and slice raw potatoes. Put a layer in a baking dish ; sprinkle 
with a little salt and pepper, dot over with oleo or butter, and sprinkle 
slightly with flour. Continue this until dish is nearly full ; then half 
cover with milk. Bake 1 hour, keeping dish closely covered for the first 
half hour. 



No. 115 SUCCOTASH Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Gram s ries Cents 

Corn.... 2i C. 580 16 7 110 582 12.00 

Cooked lima beans (Rec- 
ipe No. 101) 2i C. 375 27 2 99 535 2.96 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.26 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 4^ C. 960 43 29 209 1303 16.22 

1 Serving I C. 160 7 5 35 2.70 

Calories per serving. . .. 29 47 144 220 

Directions : 

To 1 can corn add equal amount of cooked lima beans; season with salt 
and pepper, add oleo, and place in saucepan over the fire till hot. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS in 



No. 116 SCALLOPED TOMATOES Serves 6* 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Tomatoes 3 C. 650 8 1 26 149 6.00 

Oleo 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.20 

Bread crumbs f C. 60 7 1 37 190 1.20 

Salt and pepper To season 

Total (cooked) 'Tc. 702 15 22 63 525 SAO 

1 Serving i_C 117 3 4 11 L40 

Calories per serving 12 37 45 94 

Directions: 

Drain the liquid from a can of tomatoes, and put away for flavoring. 
Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer of the solid tomatoes. 
Over this sprinkle salt and pepper and dots of oleo, using about 1 T. 
of oleo for each layer. Cover with a layer of cracker or bread crumbs, 
then another layer of tomatoes, and so on until the tomatoes have all 
been used, having crumbs on the top. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 
Fresh tomatoes may be used in place of canned ones if they are suffi- 
ciently cheap. 

The liquid from the tomatoes may be used to flavor vegetables, soups, 
gravies, or stews, or a little of it may be baked with the tomatoes. 



No. 117 VEGETABLE HASH Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Lima beans (cooked) .... 3 C. 500 36 3 132 717 4.00 

Beets (cooked) U C. 260 6 * 19 103 2.50 

Potatoes (cooked) II C. 280 7 * 59 271 1.70 

Butter substitute 4 T. 48 * 41 — 381 1.70 

Milk i C. 122 4 5 6 88 1.20 

Salt and pepper 

Total (cooked) 6 C. 840 53 49 216 1560 11.10 

1 Serving 1 C. 140 9 8 36 1^ 

Calories per serving 37 74 148 259 

Directions: 

Hash may be made with one or many cooked vegetables, alone or com- 
bined with meat or fish. Cut the vegetables fairly fine, then mix them; 
season with salt and pepper and, if liked, a little onion, parsley, or green 
pepper. Moisten with milk, soup stock, or water. Melt butter substitute 
or drippings in frying pan, add hash, and spread evenly. Over this put 
dots of drippings or crisco. Cover the pan and place where hash will not 
burn, but where heat is fairly good ; cook i hour ; then fold and turn on 
hot platter. Hash should have a rich, brown crust. For the above recipe 
use about 4 beets and 2i potatoes. 



FOOD FOR THE WORKER 



No. 118 CREAM TOAST Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Mat erial Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Centt 

Toast 6 slices 408 47 7 248 1275 6.90 

White sauce (Recipe No. 
90) 2 C. 480 20 61 45 834 7.86 

Total (cooked) 6 slices 888 67 68 293 2109 14.76 

1 Serving 1 slice 148 11 11 49 2.46 

Calories per serving.. .. 45 102 201 348 

Directions: 

Slice stale bread f to 1 inch thick ; lay in oven until brown or brown over 
coals, turning frequently, so that both sides are toasted equally. Dip each 
slice in hot water to soften; put in hot dish, and pour white sauce (sec 
Recipe No. 90) over the toast. 



No. 119 BOILED SALAD DRESSING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 

WeiRht Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Salt i T. 6 

Mustard ^ T. 4 .28 

Sugar 4t. 16 — — 16 66 .16 

Flour IT. 7 1 * 5 25 .08 

Egg 1 50 7 5 — 75 2.00 

Oleo or butter (meUed) . . 2 T. 24 * 20 — 186 1.27 

Milk f C. 183 6 7 9 127 1.80 

Vinegar i C. 45 .65 

Cayenne Few grains 

Or pepper i t. 

Total (cooked) 1 C. 300 14 32 30 449 6.24 

1 Serving 2J\ 50 2 5 5 1^ 

Calories per serving 8 47 21 76 

Directions: 

Mix salt, mustard, flour, and pepper ; add egg slightly beaten, the melted 
butter, and milk. Add vinegar slowly, and cook over hot water for about 
8 minutes, or till the mixture thickens, stirring all the time. Strain and 
cool. Bottle what is not required for immediate use. 



RECIPES WITH CALCULATIONS AND DIRECTIONS 



113 



No. 120 FRENCH SALAD DRESSING Serves 6 

Carbo- Cost 
Weight Protein Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Material Measure Grams Grams Grams Grams ries Cents 

Oil 9 t. 39 — 39 — 363 1.17 

Vinegar 3 t. 15 

Pepper and salt To season 

Total 12 t. 54 39 363 1.17 

1 Serving 2_L 9 7 ^ 

Calories per serving. ... 65 65 

Directions : 

Mix together about ^ t. salt, i t. pepper, and i t. mustard if desired ; also 
a few grains of cayenne if you have it. Add to this the oil, and when well 
mixed, add slowly vinegar or lemon juice. Beat until an emulsion is 
formed ; then pour over salad. Use just enough dressing for the salad 
to absorb. A larger quantity of dressing can be made up at one time, 
using 3 parts of oil (olive, peanut, or salad oil) to 1 part of vinegar, and 
seasoning to taste. The mixture should be kept in a tightly corked bottle 
in a cool place, and shaken thoroughly before using. 



CONSTANTS 



No. 


121 


Weight 
Grams 


Protein 
Grams 


G 


Carbo- Cost 
Fat hydrate Calo- in 
Jrams Grams ries Cents 


I. 


For cereal : 

Milk, 4 T 

Sugar, 3 t 


61 
12 


2 


2 




3 
12 


39 .60 
49 .12 




(a) Milk and sugar.. 


73 


2 




2 


15 


88 .72 




For coffee or tea: 
Milk, 2 T 


30 
12 


1 


1 




2 
12 


21 .30 




Sugar, 3 t 


49 .12 




(&) Milk and sugar. . 


42 


1 




1 


14 


70 .42 




Bread, 2 si 

Oleo, 2t 


150 
8 


14 

* 


2 
7 




80 


404 2.30 
65 .42 




(c) 2 si. bread and oleo 


158 


14 




9 


80 


469 2.72 




(d) Total constants 
for breakfast 


273 


17 




12 


109 


627 3.86 


TT 


Bread 1 si 


75 


7 


1 




40 


202 115 








TIT 


Bread 1 si 


75 
4 


7 

* 


1 
3 




40 


202 1.15 




Oleo, 1 t 


28 .21 




1 si. bread and oleo. . . 


79 


7 




4 


40 


230 1.36 



WHAT THE DAY'S FOOD SHOULD PROVIDE^ 

The menus supply the following substances: mineral sub- 
stances, protein, starch, sugar, fat, cellulose, certain newly dis- 
covered substances in very small amounts, flavoring and condi- 
ments, in about the right proportions to keep the family in 
healthful condition. 

An easy way to select the right foods is to group the differ- 
ent kinds, according to their uses in the body, and then make 
sure that all groups are represented regularly in the meals. 

The list below shows some of the common food materials 
arranged according to the nutrient for which they are usually 
considered most valuable, though some foods belong in more 
than one group. 

Group i. — Foods depended on for mineral matters, 
vegetable acids, and body-regulating substances 
Fruits : Vegetables : 

Apples, pears, etc. Salads — lettuce, celery, etc. 

Bananas Potherbs or "greens" 

Berries Potatoes and root vegetables 

Melons Green peas, beans, etc. 

Oranges, lemons, etc. Tomatoes, squash, etc. 

Etc. Etc. 

Group 2. — Foods depended on for protein 

Milk, skim milk, cheese, etc. Fish 

Eggs Dried peas, beans, cowpeas, etc. 

Meat Nuts 

Poultry 

Group 3. — Foods depended on for starch 

Cereal grains, meals, flours, etc. Cakes, cookies, starchy puddings, 

Cereal breakfast foods etc. 

Bread Potatoes and other starchy vege- 

Crackers tables 
Macaroni and other pastes 

Group 4. — Foods depended on for sugar 

Sugar Candies 

Molasses Fruits preserved m sugar, jellies, 

Syrups and dried fruits 

Honey Sweet cakes and desserts 

Group 5. — Foods depended on for fat 
Butter and cream Salt pork and bacon 

Lard, suet, and other cooking fats Table and salad oils 

'Condensed from How to Select Foods, Farmers' Bulletin 808, U. S. De- 
partment of Agriculture. Hunt and Atwater. 

114 



COST OF SUPPLIES 

Statement 

The list of supplies is given by the week because the work- 
ingman or artisan is usually paid weekly. The supplies to be 
purchased are computed from the amounts required by the 
recipes used in the menus. 

The materials for our recipes were purchased in the winter 
of 1914, and the prices of individual recipes were estimated on 
the basis of 1914 figures. Since then there has been a rapid and Prices 
striking advance in cost of food materials, so that in our sup- 
ply sheet we have shown the changes in price from January, 
1914, to November, 1916. We have given three columns of 
prices ; first, the ipi4 prices of the food commodities we have 
used in the preparation of our menus ; second, prices for July, 
1916; and third, prices for November, 1916. It will be seen 
that there is a total increase of 3.7 per cent of July, 1916, 
prices over January, 1914, prices, and a further increase of 8.3 
per cent of November, 1916, prices over July, 1916, prices, 
making prices for November, 19 16, 12 per cent higher than 
those for January, 1914, the time at which our recipes were 
worked out. It will be necessary, therefore, in view of the 
fluctuating prices of foodstuffs, to re-reckon costs of food 
materials for future use. 

The purchases total an average of $7 per week for the 
seven weeks for five people. As some of the recipes serve 
more than five people (see page 29), the cost of supplies, 
as shown on the following sheet, is slightly more than this 
average. The cost for the first week is the highest, as gen- 
eral supplies must be laid in. Some of these supplies, as 
shown on the sheet, are carried over the seven weeks' period, 
and the value of the surplus on hand is deducted from the first 
seven weeks and may be charged against the following week. 



"S 



ii6 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



Unit 



AMOUNTS PURCHASED 
Istwk. 2dwk. 3dwk. 4th wk. 5th wk. 6th wk. 7th wk. 



Staples : 

Bread loaf 

Eggs dozen 

Milk quart 

Tea pound 

Coffee pound 

Cocoa ^ lb. can 

Sugar pound 

Flour (bag) 24* lbs. 

(1 bag) 

Cereals: 

Barley POU"d 

Corn meal pound 

Cracked wheat pound 

Cream of wheat... 28oz.pkg 

Farina ISoz.pkg. 

Hominy pound 

Macaroni lb. pkg. 

Rice pound 

Rolled oats pound 

Shredded wheat package 

Tapioca pound 

American cheese... pound 

Cream cheese package 

Meat : 

Round pound 

Stew pound 

For beans pound 

Lamb (forequarter) pound 

Flank pound 

Brisket pound 

Corned beef pound 

Smoked shoulder . . pound 

Fish: 

Fresh haddock pound 

Canned salmon can 

Salt codfish pound 

Fats: 

Oil i pint 

Oleomargarine pound 

Suet pound 

Vegetable fat 24 oz. can 

Legumes : 

Beans pound 

Lentils pound 

Lima beans pound 

Split peas pound 



15i 


18 


15i 


18i 


m 


18 


5 


9 


9 


9 


7 


lA 


TJ 


JJ 


IZ 


IJ 


12 


11 


Hi 


IH 


lU 


m 


9 


h 












1 




1 






1 


i 






* 






4 


6 


4 


4 


6 


4 


1 bag 






i 






3 




1 


1 




1 


4 












1 






1 




1 


7 




1 




1 


1 


1 


1 

1 








1 

1 


9 


1 


1 




2 


1 


1 


^ 


1 


i 


U 




2 


1 
1 




1 


1 




f 








i 


1 
1 


U 


2 


2 


1 


2i 


2 


2i 


2* 


S 








1 












J 












3 


3 
2 


1 


u 


3 
3i 


2 

f 


9 


2 


1 


1 


2 


2 




i 




i 




i 


1 




1 




1 




u 






2 
2 


1 


1 


1 








1 





8 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



117 











lotal Cost 


Amount 


Surplus 




7 Weeks' 


Prices per 


Unit 


as per 


Required 


on Hand 


Value of 


Total 


Jan., 


July, 


Nov., 


July, 1916 


as per 


at end of 


Surplus 


Purchases 


1914 


1916 


1916 


Prices 


Recipes 


7th Week 


on Hand 


1201 loaves 


$ .10 


$ .10 


$ .10 


$12.05 








5y*j dozen 


.24 


.24 


.37 


1.22 








68 quarts 


.10 


.10 


.10 


6.81 








i pound 


.30 


.30 


.30 


.10 








3 pounds 


.25 


.25 


.25 


.75 


2f lbs. 


lib. 


$ .083 


1 pound 


.19 


.19 


.19 


.38 








32 pounds 


.055 


.085 


.075 


2.72 








2 bags 


1.20 


.95 


1.30 


1.90 


26i lbs. 


221 lbs. 


.85 




(lb. rate) 


(bag rate) 










i pound 


.05 


.05 


.06 


.02 








6 pounds 


.03 


.03 


.0325 .18 


5ilbs. 


ilb. 


.007 


4 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.20 


3* lbs. 


lib. 


.025 


3 packages 


.14 


.14 


.17 


.42 


4i lbs. 


lib. 


.06 


5 packages 


.05 


.10 


.10 


.50 


4 lbs. 


Hlb. 


.069 


4 pounds 


.03 


.03 


.03 


.12 








2 packages 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.18 


Hpkgs. 


Ipkg. 


.045 


7 pounds 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.63 


61 lbs. 


ilb. 


.023 


Si pounds 


.04 


.04 


.05 


.21 








5 packages 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.50 








1 pound 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.09 








2 pounds 


.21 


.24 


.26 


.48 








1 package 


.05 


.05 


.06 


.05 








13 pounds 


.18 


.18 


.22 


2.34 








10 pounds 


.14 


.16 


.16 


1.60 








i pound 


.15 


.15 


.15 


.05 








3 pounds 


.18 


.18 


.18 


.54 








4* pounds 


.16 


.20 


.20 


.90 








3 pounds 


.20 


.20 


.20 


.60 








2 pounds 


.20 


.20 


.20 


.40 








31 pounds 


.15 


.15 


.15 


.53 








5i pounds 


.06 


.08 


.08 


.44 








1 can 


.14 


.14 


.14 


.14 








11 pounds 


.12 


.12 


.18 


.21 








ipint 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 








11 pounds 


.24 


.24 


.25 


2.64 


101 lbs. 


lib. 


.12 


f pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.09 








3 cans 


.24 


.28 


.33 


.84 








5 pounds 


.08 


.08 


.13 


.40 








2i pounds 


.14 


.20 


.20 


.50 








4 pounds 


.09 


.09 


.13 


.36 


31 lbs. 


ilb. 


.023 


2 pounds 


.06 


.09 


.11 


.18 









ii8 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



Unit 



1st wk. 



AMOUNTS PURCHASED 
2dwk. 3dwk. 4thwk. Sthwk. 6thwk. 7thwk. 



Vegetables: 

Beets 2 pounds 

Corn (canned) can 

Cabbage pound 

Carrots 2 pounds 

Greens peck 

Lettuce head 

Onions 3 pounds 

Peas (canned) can 

Potatoes peck 

3 pounds 

Tomatoes (fresh).. 2i pounds 

Tomatoes (canned) can 

Turnips 2 pounds 

Fruit: 

Apples (fresh) 3 pounds 

Apples (dried) pound 

Apricots pound 

Bananas dozen 

Berries box 

Dates pound 

Lemons dozen 

Oranges dozen 

Prunes pound 

Raisins lb. pkg. 

Rhubarb pound 

Miscellaneous: 

Baking powder i lb. can 

Cornstarch lb. pkg. 

Crackers pound 

Gelatine package 

Jelly glass 

Junket package 

(10 tableU) 

Molasses quart 

Peanuts pint 

Salt 5 pounds 

Spices: 

Allspice i pound 

Cinnamon i pound 

Ginger i pound 

Nutmeg i pound 

Mustard i pound 

Soda i pound 

Vanilla bottle 

Vinegar quart 



21 


I 

1 


i 


2S 


21 


2* 


1 


3i 

1 


2 


U 
1 


i 

1 
1 




3 


1 


3 






3 


1 




1 






i 






2i 


2i 


2i 




2 




2 




1 


3 




1 




U 


i 




10 


3 


7 


5i 


2i 


If 

1 


H 






H 






10 


U 




5 

1 


1 
2 


3 


i 




.\ 


i 




i 


2 


2 


2 




1 


2 








2 


1 


1 




1 






1 


1 


i 


1 






1 


1 




1 






1 


1 




1 










5 




















































































1 












1 













Cost of purchases 



$11.32 $7.03 $6.93 $6.13 $7.75 $7.31 $6.64 



COST OF SUPPLIES 



119 











Total Cost 


Amount • 


Surplus 




7 Weeks' 


Prices per 


Unit 


as per 


Required 


on Hand 


Value of 


Total 


Jan., 


July, 


Nov., 


July, 1916 


as per 


at end of 


Surplus 


Purchases 


1914 


1916 


1916 


Prices 


Recipes 


7th Week 


on Hand 


12i pounds 


.05 


.05 


.10 


.32 








1 can 


.12 


.12 


.12 


.12 








3i pounds 


.04 


.04 


.04 


.14 








8i pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.22 








3 pecks 


.125 


.125 


.25 


.39 








2 heads 


.05 


.05 


.10 


.10 








9 pounds 


.05 


.08 


.15 


.24 


8i lbs. 


ilb. 


.013 


1 can 


.15 


.15 


.15 


.15 








2i pecks 


.25 
.05 


.25 
.05 


.50 
.10 


.63 








9 pounds 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.36 








9 cans 


.08 


.09 


.12 


.81 


Si cans 


lean 


.067 


21 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.07 








34 pounds 


.10 


.10 


.10 


1.14 








1 pound 


.12 


.12 


.17 


.12 


lib. • 


ilb. 


.04 


3 pounds 


.14 


.14 


.18 


.42 








Ijjdozen 


.15 


.15 


.15 


.31 








2 boxes 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.20 








5i pounds 


.10 


.10 


.15 


.53 








H dozen 


.15 


.15 


.20 


.18 








y\ dozen 


.30 


.30 


.25 


.13 








9 pounds 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.90 








5 packages 


.11 


.11 


.11 


.55 








4 pounds 


.03 


.03 


.03 


.12 








1 pound 


.21 


.21 


.21 


.42 


fib. 


ilb. 


.105 


1 pound 


.08 


.08 


.08 


.08 


ilb. 


i\h. 


-.04 


i pound 


.08 


.08 


.08 


.02 








2 packages 


.12 


.12 


.12 


.24 








2 glasses 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.20 








1 package 


.08 


.08 


.08 


.08 


2 tblts. 


8 tblts. 


.06 


4 quarts 


.14 


.14 


.14 


.56 


3Hqts. 


U cups 


.04 


1 pint 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.05 








5 pounds 


.05 


.05 


.05 


.05 








i pound 


.08 


.08 


.08 


.08 


i box 


sbox 


.07 


i pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


Tiybox 


i%box 


.09 


i pound 


.09 


.09 


.09 


.09 


^ box 


f box 


.08 


i pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


iVbox 


To box 


.09 


i pound 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


rffbox 


T^box 


.09 


i pound 


.07 


.07 


.07 


.07 


f box 


f box 


.05 


1 bottle 


.25 


.25 


.26 


.25 








1 quart 


.10 


.10 


.10 


.10 


ipt. 


H pts. 


.08 



Gross total of 7 weeks' expenditures $53.11 

Less: Value of surplus 2.22 

Net total of 7 weeks' expenditures $50.89 



Principle 



HOW TO BUILD AND USE A FIRELESS COOKER 

Reprinted from Form No. "jjfi. States Relations Service, Office of 
Extension Work, South, U. S. Department of Agriculture and State 
Agricultural Colleges cooperating. 

The principle of the fireless cooker is to retain the heat ob- 
tained by first boihng the food for a few minutes. It is then 
placed in the cooker, which does not allow the heat to escape. 
The food must be heated in the same vessel in the cooker. This 
vessel must have tight cover and be moved from fire to cooker 
as quickly as possible. Otherwise, heat will be lost. Hot soap- 
stones are sometimes placed in the cooker with the food when 
higher temperature is needed or longer cooking desired. These 
may be purchased from a hardware dealer at fifty cents each. 

1. Time saving. While food is cooking, the housekeeper 
may be occupied with other duties without fear of its burning. 

2. Better foods. Many foods thus cooked for a longer time 
at a low temperature have finer flavor and are more whole- 
some than if cooked on a stove at higher temperature. 

3. Comfort. Saves working in hot kitchen, keeping up 
fires, watching food. 

Advantages ^ Y\i€i saving. Fire kept up just long enough to make 

food boiling hot before putting in cooker. In summer, the use 

of a fireless cooker with a kerosene stove will result in both 

comfort and economy. 

Select a tightly built wooden box, an old trunk, barrel, large 

lard tub, or tin lard can for the outside container. This must 

be large enough to allow at least four inches of packing all 

Building the ^j-Qyjj^j ^^g ^est. A box long enough to contain two compart- 
Cooker . 

ments may be secured. If this is done, there should be at least 

six inches of packing between the two nests, and two cushions 
to cover each nest separately, so that one vessel may be removed 
without disturbing the other. 

The nest, to contain the vessel of hot food, must be con- 
sidered next. If no hot stone is to be used, this nest may be 



HOW TO BUILD AND USE A FIRELESS COOKER 121 

made of strong pasteboard, cylindrical in shape and as snug as 
possible to allow cooking vessel to be moved in and out. If too 
large, the air space will cool the food. The cardboard forming 
this cylindrical nest should be lapped and fastened tightly. If 
a hot stone is to be used, a metal nest must be used. A tin 
bucket will do, or better still, have a tinner make a galvanized 
iron one, deep enough to contain a soapstone and the cooker 
vessel. This metal vessel must be wrapped with asbestos to 
prevent the hot stone from scorching or burning the packing. 

For packing between the nest and outer container, some 
material through which heat will not pass quickly must be used. 
First, line the box or other container with layers of paper to 
keep out cold air. Lint, cotton, wool, sawdust, newspaper, 
Spanish moss, and excelsior are good for packing. The pack- 
ing should first be placed in the outside container to a depth 
of four inches ; then place the cardboard or asbestos for the 
bottom of the nest. Next place the cardboard cylinder or the 
asbestos-covered can, and hold steady while pressing the pack- 
ing tightly around it, leaving no air spaces. When this has 
reached the top of the nest, cut a piece of cardboard to fit the 
space, cutting out a circle to open the nest. This cardboard 
cover should be fastened securely to the nest by pasted strips 
of cloth or heavy paper. It is well to make a paper cover to 
keep the cardboard clean and hide the pasted strips on top. The 
space between the top of nest and the lid of the outside con- 
tainer must be filled with a cushion or pad. Make this the exact 
size of the space, and stufif with the packing material. It should 
be at least four inches thick, and should fit against the top 
tightly enough to cause pressure when the lid is closed. If a 
box is used, the lid should be on hinges, with hook to fasten it 
down. The lid of barrel or lard tub may be fastened by means 
of screw hooks and eyes at intervals around the top. If a 
wooden container is used, it will be more sightly if stained 
or painted a dull, dark brown or green. The cooker will be 
complete when castors have been put on the bottom to make 
it easily moved. 



The Nest 



Packing 



122 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

For this any utensil which has a tight cover and which will 
fit the nest may be used. There should be no air space left to 
cause loss of heat. A vessel having straight sides and having 
VcBsel ^^^ same depth as diameter is best. A special enamel or alu- 
minum fireless cooker vessel can be purchased for 50 cents 
to $1.50, depending upon size and material. Aluminum is the 
best, because it will retain heat for a longer time. 

Efficient cooking will depend upon retention of heat. A 

small quantity of food will not hold as much heat as a larger 

sing e ^^^^ ^^j ^jlj^ therefore, continue cooking for a shorter time. 

Cooker The more nearly full the vessel is of food, the better will the 

heat be retained. In heating the soapstones, be careful not to 

let them become red-hot, because of danger of cracking. 



REFERENCES 

The following references will be of considerable value to 
those who are in search of further information. They have all 
been used in the preparation of this volume. 

The Annalist. New York Times Company, New York. Vol. 8, No. 185, 
July 31, 1916. 

Annual Report on the Statistics of Labor for 1914 and 1915. The 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Bureau of Statistics. 
^^twater and Bryant : The Chemical Composition of American Food 
Materials. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment 
Stations, Bulletin 28, 1900 (revised edition). 

BiEDERT UND Langermann : Diatctik und Kochbuch fiir Magen-und 
Darmkranke. Ferdinand Enke, Stuttgart, 1909. Zereite Auflage, 
page 120 ff. 

Chapin : The Standards of Living among Workingmen's Families in 
New York City, N. Y., 1907, Russell Sage Foundation. 

CoNDiT AND Long : How to Cook and Why. Harper and Brothers, New 
York, 1914. 

Farmer: The Boston Cooking School Cook Book. Little, Brown & 
Company, Boston, 1912. 

Feeding the Family of Small Income: Prepared under the auspices 
of the New England Home Economics Association, Boston, Mass., 
February, 1916. 

Fourth Report of the Factory In\t;stigating Commission. Albany, 
N. Y., 1915. 

Gephart and Lusk : Analysis and Cost of Ready-to-Serve Foods. 
Press of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1915. 
j^jGiBBS : Lessons in the Proper Feeding of the Family. New York Asso- 
ciation for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New York, 191 1. 
j,Grindley and IMojonnier: Experiments on Losses in Cooking Meat. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 
Bulletin No. 141. 

How TO Build and Use a Fireless Cooker. U. S. Department of Agri- 
culture and State Agricultural Colleges cooperating, States Rela- 
tions Service, Office of Extension Work, South, Form No. 776. 

Hunt : Food for Young Children. U. S. Department of Agriculture, 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 717, March 4, 1916. 

Hutchison: Food and the Principles of Dietetics. Wood, London, 1911. 

IsoLA : Simple Italian Cookery. Harper and Brothers, New York, 1912. 

Johnson: Large Meals for Little Money. The People's University Ex- 
tension Society, New York, 1911. 

Kaudler: The Settlement Cook Book. Milwaukee, 1901. 

Kittredge: Housekeeping Notes, 1911. The Author, 62 Washington 
Square, New York. 
^ Locke: Food Values. Appleton, New York, 1911. 

Low Earnings and Disease. Editorial, Journal of American Medical 
Association, June 17, 1916, page 1927. 

Lusk: The Elements of the Science of Nutrition (second edition). 
Saunders, Philadelphia, 1909. 
The Fundamental Basis of Nutrition. Yale University Press, 1916. 

123 



124 FOOD FOR THE WORKER 

Mendel : Changes in the Food Supply and Their Relation to Nutrition. 
Yale University Press, 1916. 

Morse: The Care and Feeding of Children. Harvard University Press, 
Cambridge, Mass., 1914. 

Nesbitt: Low Cost Cooking. American School of Home Economics, 
Chicago, 1915. 

Pierce: The Hartley House Cook Book. Wessels & Bissell Company, 
Nevir York, 1910. 

Retail Prices. Series of Bulletins, U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau 
of Labor Statistics. 

Report of the New York City Board of Estimates on the Cost of 
Living for Unskilled Laborers. New York, 1915. 

Richards : Dietary Computer. John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1902. 
The Cost of Food : A Study in Dietaries. Ibid., 1908. 

Robinson and Hammel: Lessons in Cooking through Preparation of 
Meals. American School of Home Economics, Chicago, 1912. 

Rose: A Laboratory Hand-Book for Dietetics. Macmillan, New York, 
1912. 

RuBNER : The Nutrition of the People. Transactions of the isth Inter- 
national Congress on Hygiene and Demography, Washington, 1912. 
I, 385. 

Schereschewsky: Health of Garment Workers ; The Relation of Eco- 
nomic Status to Health. Public Health Report, May 26, 1916. xxxi, 
1298. 

Sherman : Chemistry of Food and Nutrition. Macmillan, New York, 
1912. 
Food Products. Ibid., 1915. 

Stern : The Work of the Visiting Housekeeper. Journal of Home Eco- 
nomics, 19 1 5. vii, 175. 

Stiles: Nutritional Physiology. Saunders, Philadelphia, 1915. 

Underbill : Report on Nutrition Investigation ; see Chapin, The Stand- 
ards of Living, etc. Appendix vi, page 319. 

Veeder: Standards for Determining the Suitability of Patients for 
Admission to a Free Dispensary. Journal of American Medical 
Association, July 8, 1916. 

WiNSLOW : Excerpts from annual reports of charitable organization 
societies showing development in visiting housekeeping. Journal of 
Home Econoinics, 1915. vii, 179. 

Woodman: Food Analysis. McGraw Free Book Company, New York, 
1915- 



REFERENCES 125 

Government pamphlets as follows will be found very 
helpful : 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 85: Fish as food. 

No. 121 : Beans, peas, and other legumes as food. 
No. 142 : Principles of nutrition and nutritive value 

of food. 
No. 249 : Cereal breakfast foods. 
No. 256 : Preparation of vegetables for the table. 
No. 3S2 : Nuts and their uses as food. 
No. 363 : Use of milk as food. 
No. 293 : Use of fruit as food. 
No. 391 : Economical use of meat in the home. 

These pamphlets are published by the United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture at the Government Printing Office, Wash- 
ington, D. C., and may be obtained from the Superintendent of 
Documents, Washington, D. C., at a nominal cost. 

Since the preparation of this manuscript "Feeding the Family," by 
Mary Swartz Rose (The Macmillan Co., New York), has been published, 
and is a valuable addition to books on the subject. 



INDEX 



Abbreviations, 30. 

Adolescence, caloric requirement, 7. 

food needs, 4. 
Adult, caloric requirement, 7. 
Advantages of meat, 16. 
Allowance, German minimum, 3. 
American housewife, 17. 
Analysis of recipe, 27. 
Apple, baked, 87. 

Betty, 75. 

dry, fresh, 11, 86. 

pudding, 76. 

sauce, 86. 

tapioca, T]. 
Application of science to life, 1. 
Apricot sauce, 87. 
Ash constituents, 2, 9. 
Atwater and Bryant, 5, 7, 26, 27. 
Availability of data, 5. 

Baked apple, 87. 

banana, 87. 

bean loaf, 103. 

bean stew, 104. 

beans, 103. 

potatoes, 109. 
Baker's bread, 11. 
Baking powder, 21. 

biscuits, 62. 
Balance in diet, 6. 
Balanced menus, need for, 22. 
Bananas, baked, 87. 
Barley, Scotch soup, 102. 
Basal metabolism, 4. 

of boys, 8. 
Basis of calculation, 7. 
Bean loaf, 106. 

puree, 105. 
Beans, baked, 16, 103. 

baked bean loaf, 103. 

Lima, 104. 

Lima, scalloped with tomatoes, 105. 

stewed, 104. 

with tomato sauce, 106. 
Beef, braised, 89. 

corned, 89. 

Hamburg steak, 91. 

round, pot roast, 90. 

steak flank, stuffed and baked, 70. 

stew with vegetables, 94. 
Beets, 107. 
Beverages, cocoa, 61. 



Beverages, cofifee, 61. 

tea, 61. 
Blood, Dr. Alice F., 9 
Boiled dressing, 112. 

rice, 29. 
Boys, basal metabolism, 8. 
Braised beef, 89. 
Bread, baker's, 11. 

homemade, 11. 

pudding, 77. 
Breads and biscuits, 62. 

baking powder biscuits, 62. 

corn bread, 62. 

griddle cakes, 63. 
Breakfast, plan of, 15. 
Bryant, Atwater and, 5, 7, 26, 27, 
Budget for food, 24. 
Bulk, see Roughage. 
Bulk goods, 21. 
Butter substitutes, 12. 

Cabbage, 89, 107. 

Cakes and cookies, fruit, 63. 

fruit cookies, 65. 

gingerbread, 64. 

ginger cookies, 65. 

oat wafers, 66. 

oatmeal macaroons, 66. 

plain, 63. 
Calculation, basis of, 7. 

method of, 26. 
Caloric requirement, adolescence, 7. 

adult life, 7. 

childhood, 7. 

per person, 6, 7, 16. 

values for menus, 15, 
Calorie idea, 6. 

norm, 7. 

yield in custard, 28. 
Camerer, 7. 
Candy, fudge, 67. 

molasses, 67. 

peanut, 68. 

penuchi, 68. 
Caramel custard, 29. 

sauce, 97. 
Carbohydrates, requirement, 6. 

per person, 6, 16. 
Carrots and canned peas, 107. 
Cellulose, 9. 
Cereal soup, 100. 
Cereals in bulk, 21. 



126 



INDEX 



127 



Cereals, corn meal, 70* 

corn mush, fried, 71. 

cracked wheat, 69. 

cream of wheat, 69. 

farina, 70. 

gruel, 69. 

hominy, 70. 

macaroni, boiled, 72. 

macaroni and cheese, 72, 

macaroni croquettes, 73. 

oatmeal cakes, 71. 

in pa''' age, 21. 

rice cakes, 74. 
and cheese, 74. 
scalloped, 74. 
steamed, 73. 

rolled oats, 71. 

rolled oats cakes, 66, 71. 
Changes in diet, 23. 
Cheese fo-ndue, 75. 

with macaroni, 72. 

with rice, 74. 

sauce, 97. 
Children and malnutrition, 2. 

basal metabolism, 4. 

caloric requirement, 7. 
Chocolate custard, 29. 

farina pudding, 78. 

pudding, 78. 
Choice of food, see Food. 
Chowder, corn, 99. 

fish, 100. 
Cocoa, 61. 
Codfish balls, 85. 

creamed, 85. 

hash, 85. 
Coffee, 61. 

disuse of, 13. 
Composition of food by percentage, 
27. 

weight, 27. 
Computations, their value, 24. 
Condit and Long, 11. 
Conservation of supplies, 22. 
Constants, 113, insert /. 
Construction of menu, 9. 
Conversion tables, 30. 
Cooked foods, values for, 25. 
Cooking, loss of weight in, 28. 
Corn bread, 62. 

chowder, 99. 

meal, 70. 

mush, fried, 71. 
Corned beef, 89. 

and cabbage, 89. 
Cornstarch pudding, 79. 
Cost, advanced, 115. 



Cost at Second Avenue, 3. 

computed, of foods, 9. 

limits choice, 16. 

lowest, 5. 

of family dietary, 3, 4. 

of meat, 16. 

of supplies, 20, 115. 

relation of, to income, 22. 

reduced by substitution, 29. 

varies with requirement, 7. 
Cottage pudding, 79. 
Cream tapioca pudding, 79. 

toast, 112. 
Creamed codfish, 85. 

salt fish, 85. 
Custard, 27, 80. 

caramel or chocolate, 29. 

Data, availability of, 5. 
Date and prune sauce, 88. 
Deficiency after substitution, 16. 
Dietary changes, 23. 

for child, cost of, 3, 4, 21. 

for family, cost of, 13. 

for varied group, 7, 13. 

laws, Jewish, 18. 

traditional, 24. 
Desserts, Apple Betty, 75. 

apple cake, Dutch, 76. 

apple pudding, 76. 

apple tapioca, 77. 

bread pudding, 77. 

chocolate farina pudding, 78. 

chocolate pudding, 78. 

cornstarch pudding, 79. 

cottage pudding, 79. 

cream tapioca pudding, 79. 

custard, 28, 80. 

fruit pudding, steamed, 80. 

fruit shortcake, 81. 

Indian pudding, baked, 81. 

junket, 82. 

prune jelly, 82. 

prune loaf, 83. 

rice pudding, 83. 
Dinner, plan of, 15. 
DuBois, 4, 8. 
Dutch apple cake, 76. 

Edible portion, 26. 

Eggs, 28. 

Energy requirement, 2. 

Factors considered in menus, 5. 
Factors, psychological, 15. 
Family, average, 3, 6. 
dietary, cost of, 3, 4, 



128 



INDEX 



Farina cereal, 70. 

chocolate pudding, 78. 

soup, 100. 
Fat foods, 114. 

requirement per person, 6, 16. 
Fats, vegetable, 12. 
Feeding, improper, 2. 
Fireless cooker, 120. 
Fish, baked and stuffed, 84. 

boiled, 84. yr 

chowder, 100. K 

codfish balls, 85, 

codfish, creamed, 85. 

codfish hash, 85. 

haddock, 84. 

on Friday, 16. 

salmon loaf, 86. 
Flavor, extension of, 17. 

tomatoes as, 8. 
Flour by the bag, 11. 

barrel, 12, 

pound, 21. 
Food budget, 24. 

choice of, by instinct, i. 

choice, free, 2. 

composition, 2y. 

cost of, by package, 21. 

for family, a problem, g. 

as fuel, 6. 

groups, 114. 

and nationality, 17. 

nutritious, 5. 

record, 24. 

requirements, 6. 

requirements for family, 6. 

selection of, 114. 

sufficient, 5, 

supply, restricted, 2, 5. 

synonyms, 18, 19. 

to be all eaten, 22. 

values, how to compute, 28. 

and wages, 22, 
Foods, national, correspond, 19. 
Foreign dishes, 17. 
Forty cents, purchasing power of, 4. 
French dressing, 113. 
Friday fish, 16. 
Fruit cake, 8, 63. 

cookies, 65. 

dried, 10, 11. 

fresh, 10, II. 

pudding, steamed, 80. 

shortcake, 81. 
Fruits, apple sauce, 86. 

apple sauce (dried apples), 86. 

apples, baked, 87. 



Fruits, apricot or peach sauce, 87. 

bananas, baked, 87. 

date and prune jam, 88. 

prune sauce, 88. 

rhubarb sauce, 88. 
Fudge, 67. 
Fuel, food as, 6. 

Gephart, 4, 8. 

German minimum allowance, 3. 

Gibbs, 8. 

Gingerbread, 64. 

Ginger cookies, 65. 

Gram the unit of measure, 26. 

Gravy, see Sauce. 

Greens, see Vegetables. 

Griddle cakes, 63. 

Grocery order, 8, 9, 115. 

Haddock, baked and stuffed, 84. 
Hamburg steak, 91. 
Hard sauce, 97. 
Hash, codfish, 85. 

lentil, 108. 

vegetable, iii. 
Holt, 7- 

Homemaker, 20, 24, 
Hominy, 70. 

Hormones, see Vitamines. 
Housekeeper, instructive visiting, 22, 

23- 

Housewife, American, 17. 

Italian, 18. 

Jewish, 18. 

unskilled, 23. 
Hunt, 12, 13. 
Hunt, Langworthy and, 17. 

Improper feeding, 2. 

Income, relation of food cost to, 22. 

Indian pudding, baked, 81. 

Industrial worker, 23. 

Instinct in choice of food, i. 

Instruction of homemaker, 5. 

Instructive visiting housekeeper, 23, 

23- 

Italian housewife, 18. 

Jelly, prune, 82. 
Jewish dietary laws, 18. 
Jewish housewife, 18. 
Junket, 82. 

Laborer, unskilled, 22. 
Lamb, roast, 91. 

stew, 94. 
Langworthy and Hunt, 17. 
Legumes as food, 23. 

as protein food, 17. 

replace meat, 17. 



INDEX 



129 



Lemon sauce, 98. 
Lentil hash, 108. 

soup, 1 01. 
Lettuce salad, 95. 
Liebig, Justus von, i. 
Life, application of science to, i. 
Lima beans, 104. 

scalloped, with tomatoes, 105. 
Loss of weight in cooking, 28. 
Lunch, plan of, 15. 

for man, 19. 
Lusk, Graham, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9. 

Macaroni, boiled, 72. 

and chf^ese, 72. 

croquettes, 73, 

meat scalloped with, 93. 
Malnutrition, 2. 
Man, caloric requirement, 7. 

lunch for, 19. 
Measurements, level, 26. 
Measures, standard of, 25. 

tables of, 30. 

unit of, the gram, 26 et seq. 
Meat, advantages of, 16. 

cost of, 16. 

extension of flavor, 17. 

for laborer, 24. 

place of, in dietary, 16. 

replaced by legumes, 17. 
Meats, beef, corned, 89. 

beef, braised, 89. 

flank, with vegetables, 90. 
pot roast, 90. 

Hamburg steak, 91. 

lamb, roast, 91. 

meat balls, Hamburg steak, 91. 
balls with rice, 91. 
loaf, 92. 
pie, 92. 

pie with potato crust, 93. 
scalloped with macaroni, 93. 
stew, 94. 

shoulder, smoked, 94. 
Mendel, Lafayette B., 4, 6, 10, 25. 
Menus, with calculations, 31. 

with caloric values, 15. 

construction of, g. 

cost of, 22. 

need for balanced, 22. 

plan of, 15. 

in series, 5. 

for seven weeks, 31. 
Metabolism, basal, 4. 

of boys, 8. 
Method of calculation, 26. 



Milk, 28. 

calorie yield of, 27. 

on cereal, etc., 14. 

for child, 12. 

concealed in other foods, 13. 

money for, 13. 

percentage composition, 27. 

requirement per person, 14. 

substituted for coffee, 14. 
Mineral foods, 114. 
Minimum allowance, German, 3, 

wage for family, 22. 
Molasses candy, 67. 

cost of, 21. 
Morse, 13. 
Mosaic dietary laws, 18. 

National foods correspond, 19. 
Nationality and food, 17. 
Nut loaf, 17. 

Nutrition, physiology of, 2. 
Nuts as protein food, 17. 

Oat wafers, 66. 
Oatmeal cakes, 71. 

macaroons, 66. 

and potato soup, loi. 
Oleomargarine, 12, i8. 
Onions, boiled, 108. 

scalloped, 109. 

Package cereals, 21. 

goods, 21, 
Palatability, by flavor, 8. 
Peach tapioca, 77. 
Peanut butter, 17. 

candy, 68. 
Pea soup, split, 102. 
Peas, 107. 

Percentage composition, 27. 
Physician, 23. 
Physiology of nutrition, 2. 
Plan of breakfast, 15. 

dinner, 15. 

lunch, 15. 

menus, 15. 

supper, 15. 
Potato, baked, 109. 

boiled, 109. 

salad, 95. 

scalloped, no. 
Pot roast, 90. 
Preparation of food, 21. 
Prices, see Cost. 

Problem of food for family, 2, 5. 
Protein, 12 per cent of total caloric 
intake, 6. 



130 



INDEX 



Protein foods, 114. 

in legumes, 17. 

in nuts, 17. 

need, 2. 

requirement per person, 6. 
Prune jelly, 82. 

loaf, 83. 

sauce, 88. 
Psychological factors, 15. 
Pudding, see Desserts. 
Purchasing, in "chain stores," 20, 21. 

power of forty cents, 4. 

power of two dollars, g. 

Recipe, analysis of, zt. 

substitution in, 29. 
Recipes, classified list of, 59, 60. 

copied for housewife, 24. 

tested, 3, 25. 
Record for food, 24. 
Rhubarb sauce, 88. 
Rice cakes, 74. 

and cheese, 74. 

pudding, 83. 

in salmon loaf, 86. 

scalloped, 74. 

steamed, 73. 
Richards, Ellen H., 8, 15, 18. 
Roast lamb (forequarter), 91. 
Rolled oats, 71. 

cakes, 66, 71. 
Rose, Mary Swartz, 30, 125. 
Roughage, 2, 9. 
Rubner, 23. 

Salad dressing, boiled, 112. 

French, 113. 
Salads, lettuce, 95. 

potato, 95. 

vegetable, 95. 
Salmon loaf, 86. 
Sandwiches, 19, 20. 
Saturday baked beans, 16. 
Sauce, apple, 86. 

apricot, 87. 

brown gravy, 96. 

brown sugar syrup, 96. 

butter, 96. 

caramel, 97. 

cheese, 97. 

date and prune, 88. 

hard, 97. 

lemon, 98. 

prune, 88. 

rhubarb, 88. 

tomato, 98. 

white, 99. 



Schereschewsky, 22. 
Science, application of, to life, i. 
Scientific standards, 6. 
Scotch barley soup, 102. 
Serving, 25. 

standard, 29. 
Seven weeks' menus, 15. 
Sherman, 6, 7, 9, 12, 16, 26. 
Smoked shoulder, 94. 
Soup, barley, without meat, 102. 

bean puree, 105. 

cereal, 100. 

chowder, corn, 99. 

chowder, fish, 100. 

farina, 100. 

lentil, loi. 

oatmeal and potato, loi. 

Scotch barley, 102. 

split pea, 102. 

wheat, 100. 
Spices, 21. 
Spinach, 107. 
Split pea soup, 102. 
Standard measures, 25. 

serving, 29. 
Standards, scientific, 6. 
Starch foods, 1 14. 
Steak, baked, 90. 

flank, stuffed and baked, 90. 

Hamburg, 91. 

stuffed, 90. 
Stew, baked bean, 104. 

beef, with vegetables, 94. 

lamb, 94. 
Substitution of cheaper foodstuff, 29. 

deficiency after, 16. 

the essential in, 16. 

a factor, 5. 

of milk for coflfee, etc., 14. 

for nationality, 17. 

of one dish for another, 16. 

of one menu for another, 15. 

in recipe, 29. 
Substitutes for butter, 12. 
Succotash, no. 
Sugar, 28. 

brown, syrup, 96. 
foods, 114. 
Supper, plan of, 15. 
Supplies, conservation of, 22. 
cost of, 115. 

method of purchasing, 20. 
by the pound, 20. 
weights for, 26. 
Syrup, brown sugar, 96. 

Tables, conversion, 30. 



INDEX 



131 



Tables of measures and weights, 30. 
Tapioca, apple, tt. 

cream, 79. 

peach, Tj. 
Tea, disuse of, 13. 

recipe, 61. 
Tested recipes, 3. 
Tigerstedt, 7. 
Toast, cream, 112. 
Tomatoes, with beans, 105, io6. 

as flavor, 8. 

fresh, 10. 

sauce, 98. 

scalloped, iii. 
Traditional food, 16. 

Undernourishment, 2, 22. 

Unemployment, 22. 

Unit of measure the gram, 26. 

Values for cooked foods, 25. 
Variety, i, 5, 8, 16, 22. 
Vegetable fats, 12, i8. 

hash, III. 

salad, 95. 
Vegetables, 9, 10. 

baked bean loaf, 103. 

baked beans, 103. 

baked bean stew, 104. 

bean loaf, 106. 

bean puree, 105. 

beans stewed with tomatoes, 106. 



Vegetables, beet greens, 107. 
beets, 107. 
cabbage, 89, 107. 
carrots and peas, 108. 
lentil hash, 108. 
Lima beans, 104. 

beans, scalloped, 105. 
onions, boiled, 108. 

scalloped, 109. 
potato, baked, 109. 

boiled, 109. 

salad, 95. 

scalloped, no. 
spinach, 107. 
succotash, no. 
tomato, scalloped, in. 
Visiting housekeeper, instructive, 3, 

22, 2'^. 

Vitamines, 2, 10. 

Wage, low, inadequate, 22. 
Wages and food, 22. 
Waste, an item of cost, 2(1. 

by poor preparation, 21. 
Week's total, sufficient, 8. 
Weight, see Measures. 

lost in cooking, 28. 
Wheat soup, 100. 
White sauce, 99. 
Woman, caloric requirement, 7. 
Woodman, 18. 



Meat 3, Vegetable 5, Dessert 4 ; Supper 6, may not secure the 
jright amount or proportion of food in so limited a dietary. 
I While advisable, it is not essential that the days or numbers 
]be used in order ; the only dictum is that of using the same 
Inumbers under a given day, and if changes of days are made, 
the calculation of the menus must be considered, so that in the 
readjustment the total average for the week shall meet the food 
requirements of the body. 

i "Constants" refer to milk and sugar, bread and butter. 
<used daily for breakfast and grouped together for convenience. 
The food values and amounts are given in the computed 
recipes. 



The columns across the pages are headed by the days of the 
week — Monday, Tuesday, etc. 

The foods for Breakfast are on one page (o) ; Dinner is 
printed on three pages: Meat ( 6), Vegetables (c), Desserts (d) ; 
Supper has the entire meal on one page (e). 



The number immediately before the article of food indicates 
the week ; for example, 5 before the breakfast of Rolled Oats 
on Wednesday refers to Wednesday of the fifth week in the 
series of the seven weeks' menus. 

The number and the day make possible easy reference to 



the calculation in the group of computed menus, so that the 
food values for the day's meals may be obtained. 

The numbers of the recipes are also given, so that they may 
be referred to for the preparation, quantity, and value of the 
foods. 

In order to maintain a balanced diet, the day's menu must 
consist of the articles of food with the same number under a 
given day; thus: Thursday — Breakfast, Cereal 2: Cracked 
Wheat; Dinner, Meat 2: Flank Steak, Vegetable 2: Car- 
rots, Onions in Meat : Dessert 2 : Rice and Syrup ; Supper 2 : 
Bread and "Oleo," Fruit Cookies, Cocoa. A miscellaneous com- 
bination, such as Thursday— Breakfast, Cereal 1 ; Dinner, 



Meat 3, Vegetable 5, Dessert 4 ; Supper 6, may not secure the 
right amount or proportion of food in so limited a dietary. 

While advisable, it is not essential that the days or numbers 
be used in order; the only dictum is that of using the same 
numbers under a given day, and if changes of days are made, 
the calculation of the menus must be considered, so that in the 
readjustment the total average for the week shall meet the food 
requirements of the body. 

"Constants" refer to milk and sugar, bread and butter, 
used daily for breakfast and grouped together for convenience. 

The food values and amounts are given in the computed 
recipes. 



SUPFl 



;o 



pple 
er Bis- 

iy 

D 



118 1 ; Cream Toast 
Sliced Banana 

3 { Tea 
! 
64 I 2 ! Prune Sauce 

Bread and Oleo 
1 Cocoa 



:> 3 Corn Bread 
84 Syrup 

1 Cocoa 

29 : 4 Boiled Rice 

Bread and Oleo 

j 
3 i Tea 

25 5 Oatmeal Cakes 
84 Syrup 

Bread and Oleo 



Milk 

65 I 6 Rhubarb Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
7 Cake 

3 ! Tea 

! 

58 7 i Apple Sauce 
10 Fruit Cookies 

1 Cocoa 



61 


1 


11 
3 




65 


2 ! 


3 




58 
7 


3 


1 


' 


60 


4 ■. 


10 
3 


■ 


64 


5 : 


8 




3 




59 


6 


11 




3 




63 


7 

1 


8 

1 ^ 





Bread and Oleo 
Ginger Cookies 
Tea 

Rhubarb Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Tea 



Cake 

Cocoa 

Baked Apple 
Bread and Oleo 
Fruit Cookies 
Tea 

Prune Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Fruit Cake 



Tea 

Apple Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Ginger Cookies 

Tea 

Date and Prune 

Sauce 
Fruit Cake 
Tea 




Prune Sauce 
Bread and Olc 
Gingerbread 
Tea 



Date and Prune Sauce 
Baking Powder Bis- 
cuits 
Cocoa 

Apricot Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Ginger Cookies 
Tea 

Dates 

Oat Wafers 

Bread and Oleo 



Tea 



Sauce 



Jelly 01 

Bread 

Lima Bean Salad 

Boiled Dressing 



2 Custard 

I Caramel Sauce 
I Bread and Oleo 
! Tea 

3 ! Oatmeal Cakes 

I Bread and Oleo 
Apple Sauce 

' Tea 

4 Baked Apple 

' Bread and Oleo 
j Gingerbread 
I Cocoa 

j 5 ; Junket 
I Bread and Oleo 
Oat Wafers 



: Rice Cakes 

I Bread and Oleo 



29 

84 


1 ■ 


48 
85 




3 


1 


61 


3 


7 
3 


i 


54 


4 ' 


8 
3 




7 
14 


5 


3 




58 


6 


8 




3 




62 
11 

1 


7 



Syrup 

Bread and Oleo 
Cocoa 



Caramel Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Tea 

Apricot Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Cake 
Tea 

Prune Sauce 
I Bread and Oleo 
' Fruit Cake 
: Tea 



Bread 
Cake 
Fudge 



Apple Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Fruit Cake 



65 
13 


M 


3 




10 


2 


1 

48 
84 


3 


3 




23 
84 


4 

1 

i 


65 
9 


5 


1 

7 


6 


3 




61 
10 


7 


3 





Junket 

Bread and Oleo 
Tea 

Fried Corn Mush 

Syrup 

Bread and Oleo 

Cocoa 



Cream Cheese 

Cake 

Bread and Oleo 



<j2 


I 


' 






2 


I 


I 


64 


3 


10 
3 




62 


4 


1 
58 


5 


4 




15 
3 




21 
84 


6 


1 
7 


7 


3 





Baked Banana 
Corn Bread 


118 


1 


Cream Toast 
Sliced Banana 


Cocoa 


3 




Tea 


Jelly 
Bread 
Cake 
Tea 


64 

1 


' 


Prune Sauce 
Bread and Olen 
Cocoa 


Prune Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Fruit Cookies 
Tea 


_ 
84 

1 


3 


Corn Bread 
Syrup 

Cocoa 


Baked Banana 
Bread and Oleo 


29 


4 


Boiled Rice 
Bread and Oleo 


Cocoa 


3 




Tea 


Berries or Apple 
Sauce 

Baking Powder Bis- 
cuits 

Molasses Candy 

Tea 


84 




Oatmeal Cakes 

Syrup 

Bread and Oleo 

Milk 


Hominy 

Syrup 

Bread and Oleo 


7 


6 


Rhubarb Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Cake 


Cocoa 


3 




Tea 


Dates 
Cake 


58 
10 


7 


Apple Sauce 
Fruit Cookies 



61 


1 


11 
3 




65 


2 


3 




58 
7 


'\ 


60 


4 


10 
3 




54 


5 


8 




3 




59 


6 '' 


11 




3 




63 


7 


8 
3 





Bread and Oleo 



Baked Apple 
; Bread and Oleo 
' Fruit Cookies 



Prune Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
Fruit Cake 



Apple Sauce 
Bread and Oleo 
j Ginger Cookies 



Date and Prune 
Sauce 
Fruit Cake 

Tea 



d 
Desse 




35 
88 


1 


Dutch Apple Cake 
Lemon Sauce 


39 


1 


Chocolate Pudding 






16 


2 


Peanut Candy 


45 

87 


2 


Fruit Pudding 
Hard Sauce 




tiding 


36 
87 


3 


Apple Pudding 
Hard Sauce 


50 


3 


Prune Loaf 






6 
84 


4 


Griddle Cakes 
Syrup 


46 


4 


Fruit Shortcake 






34 


5 


Apple Betty 


47 


5 


Indian Pudding 






47 


6 


Indian Pudding 




6 


Sliced Oranges and 














Bananas 




? 


9 


7 


Gingerbread 


35 7 
88 


Dutch Apple Cake 
Lemon Sauce 



Sugge\ 



34 


1 


37 


2 


51 
88 


3 


41 


4 


44 


5 


42 


6 


37 


7 



Apple Betty 
Apple Tapioc 



Custard 
Cornstarch Pudding 



One-egg Chocolate Cake 
Bread and Butter Pudding 
Chocolate Bread Puddinjj 



49 


1 


63 


2 


38 


3 


51 
88 


4 


41 


5 


45 
87 


6 


50 


7l 



Prune Jelly 

Dateand Prune Sau 

Bread Pudding 

Rice Pudding 
Lemon Sauce 

Cottage Pudding 



48 


I 


35 
88 


2 


49 


3 


44 


4 


39 


5 


40 


J 


41 


7 



Prune Jelly 
Custard 
Chocolate Pudding 



7 Cottage Pudding 



60 


1 


29 

84 


2 


37 


3 


40 


4 


49 


5 


43 


6 


12 


7 



Chocolate Farina 
Pudding 



Cream Tapioca Pud- 49 
ding I 



Oatmeal Macaroons I 38 



2 Prune Loaf 

3 : Cornstarch Pudding 



5 Dates 

6 Prune Jelly 

7 Bread Pudding 



16 2 Peanut Candy 



34 5 Apple Betty 
47 6 Indian Pudding 

9 7 Gingerbread 



39 1 ' Chocolate Pudding 

45 2 Fruit Pudding 
87 Hard Sauce 

SO 3 Prune Loaf 

46 4 ' Fruit Shortcake 

47 5 ' Indian Pudding 



Veget^ 



atoes 
lowder 

n Loaf 



juettes 



Suggest 





' 


81 
119 


2 

1 


99 


3| 




4 




si 

1 


111 


6 


115 


7' 



Beans as Baked Beans i 113 



Vegetable Salad 
Boiled Dressing 



Beans in Loaf with 
Tomato Sauce 

Beans in Puree 



Tomatoes 



Scalloped Onions 



Succotash 



I 
1 113 

> 106 

1 


1 


108 


2 

! 




3 




4 


101 




112 

79 

120 


5 

i 


66 


6 


113 


1 

! 



Potatoes 
Beets 



2 Carrots with Peas 



Carrots and Pota- 
toes in Stew 

Carrots, Turnips, 

Onions in Meat 
Lima Beans 

Baked Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
French Dressing- 
Cabbage 



7 i Tomatoes 

Boiled Potatoes 



1 

Vegetables 

1 


110 
90 


1 


Rice in Meat 
Boiled Onions 
White Sauce 


114 


1 


Scalloped Potatoes 




I 


Tomatoes in Beans 




1 


Carrots, Potatoes in 
Stew 


116 


' 


Scalloped Tomatoes 


1 


Beansas Baked Beans 


113 
106 


. 


Potatoes 
Beets 






2 


Carrots and Potatoes 
in Stew 


114 
120 


2 


Macaroni and Toma- 
toes in Meat 
Cabbage Salad 
French Dressing 


111 


2 


Scalloped Onions 




2 


Carrots, Onions in 
Meat 


79 
119 




Potatoes in Chowder 

Lettuce 

Boiled Dressing 


81 ! 2 
119 


Vegetable Salad 
Boiled Dressing 


108 


2 


Carrots with Peas 






3 


Vegetables in Hash 




3 


Carrots, Potatoes in 
Stew 




3 


Tomatoes 


110 


3 


Boiled Onions 




3 


Rice in Salmon Loaf 


99 3 


Beans in Loaf with 
Tomato Sauce 




3 


Carrots and Pota- 
toes in Stew 




106 


4 


Potatoes in Meat Pie 
Beets 


107 


4 


Greens 


80 
120 


4 


Potato Salad 
French Dressing 




4 


Tomatoes 




4 


Macaroni in main 
dish 


4 


Beans in Puree 


101 


4 


Carrots, Turnips, 
Onions in Meat 
Lima Beans 




106 


5 


Rice in Hash 
Beets 


114 


S 


Scalloped Potatoes 


33 


S 


Carrots, Onions, Bar- 
ley, Turnip in Soup 
Scalloped Rice 


107 


5 


Rice with Meat 
Beet Greens 


28 
86 


S 


Macaroni Croquettes 
Cheese Sauce 


5 Tomatoes 


112 
79 
120 


5 


Baked Potatoes 
Lettuce Salad 
French Dressing 






6 


Macaroni and Toma- 
toes in Meat 


112 
116 


6 


Potatoes Baked 
Scalloped Tomatoes 




6 


Lima Beans and To- 
matoes in main dish 


114 


6 


Scalloped Potatoes 


31 


6 


Rice and Cheese 


111 6 


Scalloped Onions 


66 


6 


Cabbage 




102 




7 


Lima Beans and To- 
matoes 


107 


7 


Spinach 




7 


Lentils in Soup 


106 
120 


7 


Macaroni, Tomatoes 
with Meat 
Beet Salad 
French Dressing 


113 


7 


Potatoes Boiled 


115 7 


Succotash 


113 


7 


Tomatoes 
Boiled Potatoes 



Cabbage 

Scalloped 
Creamed 
Kale 

Swiss Chard 
String Beans 
Dandelion Gr 



Creamed Carrots 

Mashed Carrots 

Parsnips 

Potato and Onion Hash 



Pea Beans and Barley 
Baked Split Peas 
Lima Beans and Barley 



DINNER 


72 


1 


Meat Balls with Rice 


97 


1 


Split Pea Souo 


105 


1 1 Stewed Beans 


77 


1 


Beef Stew 


93 


1 


Farina Soup 


98 


1 


Baked Beans 


70 


. 


Roast Lamb 

( Forequarter) 
Bread 


Meat or 
Meat Substi- 






Bread 






Bread 






Bread 






Bread 






Bread 






Bread 






tutes 


7; 


2 


Beef Stew 
Bread 


76 


2 


Scalloped Meat 
Bread 


95 


- 


Oatmeal an<I Potato 
Soup 
Bread 


68 




Flank Steak, Stuffed 
and Baked 
Bread 


92 
91 


2 


Fish Chowder or 
Corn Chowder 
Bread 


71 
83 


2 


Hamburg Steak 
Brown Gravy 
Bread 


67 


2 


Braised Beef 
Bread 




117 


3 


Vegetable Hash 
Bread 


77 


3 


Lamh or Beef Stew 


104 


3 


Baked Bean Loaf 
Bread 


74 


3 


Meat Pie 


57 


3 


Salmon Loaf 
Bread 


93 
99 


3 


Farina Soup 
Baked Bean Loaf 
Bread 


77 


3 


Lamb Stew 
Bread 




75 


4 


Meat Pie, with Po- 
tato Crust 
Bread 


33 


4 


Cheese Fondue 
Bread 


102 


4 


Scalloped Lima Beans 
Bread 


100 


4 


Baked Bean Stew- 
Bread and Oleo 




4 


Macaroni and Cheese 
Bread 


103 


4 


Bean Puree 
Bread 


68 


4 


Flank Steak, with 
Vegetables 
Bread 




109 


S 


Lentil Hash 
Bread and Oleo 


73 
89 


5 


Meat Loaf 
Tomato Sauce 


96 


5 


Barlev Soup without 
Meat 
Bread and Oleo 


72 


5 


Meat Balls with Rice 
Bread and Oleo 


52 


5 


Baked Stuffed Fish 
Bread and Oleo 


94 


5 


Lentil Soup 
Bread and Oleo 


69 


5 


Pot Roast 
Bread 




76 


6 


Scalloped Meat 
Bread and Oleo 


93 


6 


Wheat or Farina 
Soup 


102 


6 


Scalloped Tomatoes 
and Lima Beans 
Bread 


97 


6 


Split Pea Soup 
Bread 


54 


6 


Codfish Balls or Cod- 
fish Hash 
Bread and Oleo 


73 


6 


Meat Loaf, Tomato 
Sauce 
Bread 


66 


6 


Corned Beef 
Bread 




73 
83 


7 

L 


Meat Loaf 
Brown Gravy 


31 


■ 


Scalloped Rice and 
Cheese 


94 


7 


Lentil Soup 


76 


7 


Scalloped Meat, Mac- 
aroni and Tomatoes 


55 


7 


Creamed Salt Fish 


26 
90 


7 


Boiled Macaroni and 
Creamed Sauce 


78 7 


Smoked Shoulder 



Soups : 
Black Bean 
Chestnut 
Browned Onion 
Lentil 

Bean and Tapioca 
Cream of Vegetable 



Meats : 
Stewed Kidney- 
Braised Heart 



a 








DAY 




Recipe 

Number 

Week No. 


Recipe 
Number 

Week No. 






SATURDAY 




BREAKF 


SUNDAY 




;at 

t 

;at 


22 

121 

2 

24 

121 

2 

21 

121 

2 

121 
2 

20 

121 

2 

18 

121 

2 

19 
121 

2 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 


Corn Meal 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rolled Oats 

Constants 

Coffee 

Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 

Shredded Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Farina 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cream of W^heat 
Constants 


18 
121 

2 

19 

121 

2 

20 
121 

2 

21 
121 

2 

29 

121 

2 

19 

121 
2 

24 
121 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 


Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Farina 

Constants 

Coffee 

Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rice 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rolled Oats 
Constants 




Coffee ' 2 


Coffee 




• 















MENUS FOR SEVEN WEEKS 



Hominy 

I Constants 
CoflFee 

Corn Meal 
Constants 
Coffee 

I Constants 

I Coffee 

I 

j Shredded Wheat 

I Constants 

6 Cracked Wheat 
Constants 

Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 



WEDNESDAY 



1 ' Shredded Wheat 
I Constants 

, Constants 
I Coflfee 

I Rice 

' Constants 

I Cracked Wheat 
■ Constants 
j Coffee 

I Cream of Wheat 
' Constants 
' Coffee 

! Corn Meal 
; Constants 
2 I I Coffee 

19 I 7 ! Cream of Wheat 
I Constants 
I Coffee 



Farina 

Constants 

Coffee 

Shredded Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rolled Oats 

Constants 

Coffee 

Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 

Corn Meal 
Constants 
Coffee 



THURSDAY 



Shredded Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rolled Oats 

Constants 

Coffee 

Constants 
Coffee 



Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 



SATURDAY 



19 

121 

2 


1 


21 

121 

2 


2 


24 


3 


2 




22 

121 

2 


4 


18 


5 


2 


I 


121 


fil 


20 
121 


7 



Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rolled Oats 

Constants 

Coffee 

Com Meal 
Constants 
Coffee 

Cracked Wheat 

Coffee 

Shredded Wlieat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Farina 

Constants 

Coffee 



Corn Meal 
Constants 
Coffee 

Rolled Oats 

Constants 
Coffee 

Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 



Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 



Cracked Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

am of Wheat 
Constants 
Coffee 



Hominy 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rice 

Constants 
Coffee 

Cream of Wheat 

Constants 

Coffee 

Rolled Oats 
Constants 
! Coffee 



*MiIk and sugar for cereal 
Milk and sugar for coffee 
Bread and oleo 






Form L9-50m-4,'61( 




TX 
S83f 



Food for the 
worker 




000 503 927 



TX 
S83f 



SCHOOL 



