I A 



X^OOD AND 




ANDRRkyONT 




Book /) <® & 

rqiyright^ w* 7 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSm 



FOOD and 
COOKERY 



By 
H. S. ANDERSON 

Food Expert, Loma Linda 
Sanitarium, California 

1917 



PACIFIC PRESS PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION 

Mountain VievJ, California 

Kansas City, Mo. Portland, Ore. Brookfield, III. 

Calgary, Alberta, Canada Cristobal, Canal Zone 



TXZ9Q. 

.A68 
\9I7. 



Copyright 1915 bj> 

THE COLLEGE PRESS 

Loma Linda, California 



Revised Fourth Edition 

Copyright 1917 by 

PACIFIC PRESS PUBLISHING ASSNJ. 



DEC 151917 

©CI.A481020 



PUBLISHERS' PREFACE 

In presenting "Food and Cookery" to the public, it is 
not to add another cookbook to the many now in the hands 
of the perplexed housewives of America. This is the 
fourth and enlarged edition of a little work which has 
already made its way; and for this edition, hundreds of 
orders are already filed. 

There is a demand for the book from those who know 
the first editions. There is a moral demand for the in- 
formation it contains, in these days of world food scarcity 
and the need of wise food conservation, when the best food 
for the least money is called for. 

The recipes are not prepared by a tyro, nor gathered 
from miscellaneous collections, nor compounded merely to 
please the taste. 

The author has had a score of years of experience in 
every stage of cooking science and practical work, from 
mere helper to the chef. He has served for years under 
German and Swiss and Spanish and English and French 
chefs. For a year, he was second cook in the Calumet 
Club of Chicago, where he served European royalty; and 
for nearly the same length of time, in the California Club 
of Los Angeles; and he has also served in like capacity in 
many leading hotels in various cities. 

For the last ten years, Mr. Anderson has given himself 
to the better side of the question, — healthful, palatable, 
scientific, economical cookery. 

These recipes are all tested and tried, and retested and 
tried in connection with experienced chemical, medical, 
practical collaborators, in the Medical Missionary College 
and Sanitarium of Loma Linda, California, in which Mr. 
Anderson is food expert. 

In highest confidence, we send the little book forth as a 
friend in the homes of a larger public. 



(?) 



PREFACE 

In preparing this new edition of "Food and Cookery" 
for publication, our object has been to present a collection 
of simple, wholesome, and inexpensive recipes, many of 
which are new, together with suitable text matter on foods, 
and their uses in the body. This idea was suggested by 
the need of such a book in the training school for nurses 
and medical evangelists at the medical school and sani- 
tarium, Loma Linda, California. It is hoped that the book 
will be found useful in other schools, as well as in many 
homes where the teaching of this subject is receiving at- 
tention. 

While we have not attempted to write a treatise on 
vegetarianism, we do advocate the total disuse of the flesh 
of animals as food, and a more extensive use of grains, 
fruits, nuts, and other products of the vegetable kingdom, 
thus propagating a principle that tends essentially to true 
civilization, to universal humaneness, and to health and 
happiness generally. 

The history of vegetarianism is as old as human history 
itself; and probably in every age there have been some 
who have practiced it either as a religious duty, or under 
the belief that they would thereby conserve the life forces, 
and be the better fitted for the pursuit of peace and happi- 
ness. Again, there are those who adopt a vegetarian 
course of diet in the belief that many diseases, such as 
gout, and gastrointestinal disorders, would largely disap- 
pear if the vegetarian diet were strictly adhered to. An- 
other motive for adopting vegetarianism is undoubtedly 
economy. To a great extent, the human race is virtually 
vegetarian from necessity. Nor do we find that feebleness, 
either of mind or of body, necessarily ensues. Rather, ex- 
perience shows the opposite to be the case. 

(4) 



PREFACE 5 

It has been our endeavor to make the instruction and 
recipes so practical that the many who are desirous of 
reforming their diet may do so intelligently. To such, we 
would say that changes in the habits of a lifetime should 
be gradual and progressive, as the functions of the body 
do not readily adjust themselves to changes that are too 
radical. When flesh foods are left off, digestive juices of 
a different character are required; but it is a matter of 
only a short time until the system adjusts itself to the 
change. 

It is certainly true that as. one perseveres in a non-flesh 
diet for a length of time, the relish for spices and condi- 
ments diminishes; and as these really serve to blunt the 
sensitiveness of the palate, there gradually comes into evi- 
dence, when they are discarded, a keener discernment of 
the rarer and more delicate natural flavors, which are 
quite inappreciable to the taste accustomed to highly sea- 
soned foods. One mistake to be avoided, however, is the 
opposite extreme. Food should never be served savorless 
and insipid. As one has expressed it, "When the goodman 
comes in expecting the usual roast mutton or kidney stew, 
do not set before him a dish of mushy barley or sodden 
beans." There is at command a variety of vegetarian 
dishes, practically unlimited, and savory enough to tempt 
the most fastidious. 

The most common error of those who have eschewed 
flesh products, is that, having developed the taste for natu- 
ral foods, they are inclined to overeat. Many labor under 
the delusion that because they have discontinued the use 
of the more harmful articles of diet, they are licensed to 
eat all their appetite calls for. Soon they observe symp- 
toms of intestinal indigestion, and attribute it to their hav- 
ing adopted the diet reform. The secret of success in 
avoiding this error is thorough mastication, and the eating 
of only a few kinds of food at one meal. The benefit de- 



6 PREFACE 

rived from food does not depend so much on the quantity 
eaten as on its thorough digestion and assimilation. 
Therefore if the time in which to eat is limited, the amount 
eaten should be proportionately limited. 

The author gratefully acknowledges the valuable as- 
sistance of Dr. Lavina Herzer in the work of perfecting 
new recipes for this book; and of Mrs. J. J. Weir, long an 
associate teacher, in her contribution of new recipes; also 
of various sanitarium chefs and teachers, and energetic 
housewives, who have contributed both recipes and valu- 
able subject matter for this work. 

To know that the information contained herein will be 
the means of helping some others to the "more excellent 
way" will be reward sufficient for the author. 

H. S. A. 



CONTENTS 



Foods, Their Uses in the Body 9 

Adaptation of Food 
Food Principles 
Balancing the Food 
Table of Food Values 

Natural Food of Man 18 

Vegetable and Flesh Foods Contrasted 

Food Economy - 23 

Table of Food Economy 
Practical Hints 

Food Preparation 27 

Objects Sought in Cookix.; 
Principles of Successful Cookery 
Free Fats in Cooking 

Combinations and Menu Making 34 

Planning the Meal 

Simple Menus 

Table of Food Composition 

Course of Cooking Lessons 44 

Lesson Outline 
Essentials to Success 
Table of Measures 

Miscellaneous Recipes 48 

Pasteurized Milk 
Buttermilk 

Bread ._ . _ 54 

Unfermented Batter Breads 
Unfermented Dough Breads 
Fermented Breads 
Principles of Bread Making 
Baking 

Soups 74 

Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees - - - - 80 

Legumes 

(7) 



8 CONTENTS 

Gravies and Sauces 95 

Vegetables -- 98 

Desserts 110 

Dried Fruits 

Puddings 

Pies 

Cakes 

Icings and Fillings 

Salads and Dressings 126 

Dressings 
Vegetable Salads 
Fruit Salads 

Toasts and Breakfast Dishes 134 

Sandwiches ---------- 140 

Cookery for the Sick - 142 

Fruit Ices and Ice Cream 147 

Home Canning - 149 

Phinciples of Canning 
Preservation in Salt 
Fruit Canning 
Jelly Making 



FOODS 

THEIR USES IN THE BODY 

The problem of securing ample nutrition for the family 
board, and at a minimum cost, is one of growing impor- 
tance, not only because of the high cost of food, but be- 
cause more and more we are coming to realize that a 
healthy body is man's greatest asset. 

In the support and maintenance of life, the first and 
most essential factor is the substance upon which it feeds. 
There is probably no other thing over which we have con- 
trol, that produces so marked an influence over the body 
as the food we eat. Animals in their natural state seem 
to put the proper appreciation upon foods, in that they 
reject that which is harmful, and accept that as food 
which is good for them. Instinct should guide us to some 
extent in the choice of foods best suited to our own ne- 
cessities; but civilization has created for man certain 
artificial environments, habits, and appetites, in the con- 
fusion of which his instincts are largely lost. 

The grains, fruits, and vegetables have all the nutritive 
properties necessary for our existence. These, when pre- 
pared in a simple yet appetizing manner, will soon become 
extremely delicious and satisfying to the taste, so that the 
appetite will demand no other. When this condition is 
attained, foods begin to perform their natural functions, 
imparting to the body their latent powers, supplying with 
life and strength each nerve, muscle, and tissue. 

All life must comply with certain unchangeable laws in 
order to be free. A man who succumbs to disease is not 
free, but in bondage. Disease is the outward expression or 
penalty of violated laws. Health is Nature's reward for 
conformity to her laws, and is that condition where the 
powers of construction excel the powers of destruction — in 

(9) 



10 FOOD AND COOKERY 

other words, the maintenance of the bodily resistance at 
so high a level that should we be unable to avoid contact 
with disease, it would not be likely to affect us. By cor- 
rect eating and the pursuit of natural habits, this condi- 
tion can be maintained for many years. 

ADAPTATION OF FOOD 

The true function of food is to furnish material for the 
growth and repair of the body, to supply energy for muscu- 
lar work, and to furnish heat to keep the body warm. 

The diet that will secure this end necessarily varies with 
circumstances, depending largely upon the occupation of 
the individual, the climate in which he lives, and the sea- 
son of the year. Some foods that are adapted for use at 
one season or in one climate are not suited to another. So 
there are different foods best suited to persons of different 
occupations. Often food that can be used with benefit by 
those engaged in hard physical labor is unsuitable for 
persons of sedentary habit. 

In cold weather, we feed our furnaces to keep our houses 
warm; in warm weather, less fuel is used. The human 
body corresponds to a house; but people not uncommonly 
make the mistake of eating the same foods in warm 
weather, and in the same quantities, that they consume in 
cold weather. The result is a lack of energy, due to the 
clogging of the body furnace with excess of fuel, and not, 
as supposed, to insufficient food. In warm weather, the 
digestive organs cannot digest the same quantity nor the 
same kinds of food that they are capable of digesting in 
cold weather. Wisely, therefore, with the return of sum- 
mer, Nature takes away the desire for many of the solid 
foods, such as beans, lentils, eggs, fats, or heat-producing 
foods, and furnishes us with greens, fresh fruits and vege- 
tables, which are appetizing and cooling to the system. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 11 

FOOD PRINCIPLES 

Tn order that it may be understood just what is meant 
by food principles, we may say they are six: water, fats, 
carbohydrates, proteins, mineral matters, and vitamines. 
Each has a different use in the body, and is necessary in 
a varied diet, though we require larger quantities of some 
than of others. 

Water constitutes two thirds of the weight of the body, 
and enters into the composition of all the tissues and fluids. 
In one sense, however, water is not a food, for it tends 
neither to build up nor to furnish heat and energy to the 
body; yet it is perhaps the most essential of all elements. 
Life can be sustained for a much longer period of time 
without food than without water. 

Fat is called a fuel food, because of its power to give 
heat to the body. Fats are divided into two forms, free 
fats and emulsified fats. Examples of free fat are butter 
and other solid fats, and oils, both animal and vegetable. 
Examples of emulsified fats are found in nearly all vege- 
tables, especially in olives and nuts, and in milk and cream. 
The purest free fats are olive oil, corn oil, coconut oil, re- 
fined cottonseed oil, and peanut oil. These wholesome fats, 
so abundantly furnished in Nature's great store, exclude 
the need of animal oils and fats. 

Carbohydrates are represented by the starches and sug- 
ars in various foods. For instance, grains, such as rice, 
corn, wheat, rye, oatmeal, buckwheat, etc., have an average 
of from seventy to eighty per cent starch; while dried 
fruits, such as raisins, prunes, dates, figs, rich in fruit 
sugar, contain an average of from seventy to eighty per 
cent carbohydrate. Both fats and carbohydrates furnish 
fuel for the body. They yield the heat that keeps it warm, 
and the energy that enables it to work. 

Protein, or nitrogenous substances, are represented by 
the casein in milk, the curd being very highly nitrogenous; 



12 FOOD AND COOKERY 

the gluten of wheat; the albumen in the white of egg, it 
being the purest form of protein ; the legumin in peas and 
beans; and the myosin of lean meat. The chief office of 
protein is to provide for the growth and repair of the 
muscle tissues of the body. 

Mineral Matter and Vitamines are found in all natural 
foods, especially in the hulls and outer layers of grain, and 
in fresh vegetables and fruits. Mineral substances are 
used by the body to build the bones and the teeth, and to 
aid in the digestion. Vitamines are substances of unknown 
composition, which are essential to normal metabolism, and 
the lack of which in a dietary causes beriberi and other 
deficiency diseases. 

Rice, one of our best known foods, is wholesome arid 
nourishing; but if we remove the hulls, as is done in pol- 
ishing, it loses its food value. Pigeons or chickens fed 
exclusively on polished rice quickly develop paralysis and 
die; but if the polishings are given them after they begin 
to be ailing, they grow well and strong. The reason is 
that the life-giving vitamines are in the coatings of the 
grain. 

Dr. Casimir Funk, as quoted in the Journal of the Ameri- 
can Medical Association, May 20, 1916, on the subject of 
"Vitamines a New Factor in Nutrition," says in part: 

"Besides the ordinary food constituents, such as pro- 
teins, fats, carbohydrates, lipoids, and inorganic salts, to 
which the value of our food is due, a number of substances 
can be found in small quantities which are as indispensable 
to life as the former constituents. These substances I have 
designated 'vitamines,' and the diseases which arise from 
their lack, as deficiency diseases or 'avitaminoses.' ... A 
certain amount of vitamine can take care of only a limited 
amount of carbohydrate; and when starch is increased in 
the diet, the amount of vitamine-containing foodstuffs must 
be increased in proportion." 



FOOD AND COOKERY 13 

"A second fact has been established in connection with 
the metabolism in the deficiency diseases, which is that 
in the absence of vitamine, we not only obtain a negative 
nitrogen balance, but the whole metabolism goes wrong. 
This is particularly noticed in the negative balance of in- 
organic constituents. The addition of vitamine puts the 
whole metabolism again on a normal basis. Vitamine, 
when properly prepared and added to a diet of polished 
rice, makes that diet complete. I have shown that no 
animal has yet been found able to live more than a short 
time on a vitamine-free food." 

Fruits, because of their low nutritive qualities, are not 
as a rule estimated at their real value as food. Either 
fresh or cooked, they have a great dietetic value, and should 
be used generously and wisely. Fruits and fruit juices 
keep the blood in a healthy condition ; they supply a variety 
of flavors, acids, sugar, and a necessary waste or bulky 
material for aiding in intestinal movement. These vege- 
table acids and essential oils impart palatability to the 
food, and assist functionally in the digestive process. 

BALANCING THE FOOD 

The calorie is the unit measure of heat used to denote 
the energy-giving power of food, and is equivalent to the 
amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of one 
kilogram of water one degree centigrade, or about one 
pint of water four degrees Fahrenheit. The following 
general estimate has been made for the energy furnished 
to the body by one gram of each of the classes of nutrients : 

1 gram* protein yields 4 calories of fuel value. 

1 gram carbohydrate yields 4 calories of fuel value. 

1 gram of fat yields 9 calories of fuel value. 
— Bulletin No. H2, United States Department of Agri- 
culture. 



J8.3 grams equal 1 ounce. 



14 FOOD AND COOKERY 

By the figures in the column at the right hand of the 
chart (page 15) is represented the total number of calories 
or food units contained in one pound of the various foods 
under consideration, the building material (protein) being 
represented by the diagonal lines, the fats by the dotted 
space, and the carbohydrates by the crosshatching, etc. 

The vital part of all muscle tissue is protein. Every 
living cell requires its due allowance, for the wear and 
tear of tissue must be made good. While there is perhaps 
no article of diet except sugar and pure fat into which pro- 
tein does not enter to a greater or lesser degree, yet there 
are foods that contain an unusually high percentage of 
protein, known as protein foods. These are the dried peas, 
beans, lentils, eggs, nuts, and meat. 

Although protein, when oxidized in the body, is capable 
of yielding a certain amount of heat, it is inferior for this 
purpose to carbohydrates and fats, because, on being 
burned in the body, it also yields certain deleterious 
products, which throw upon the liver and the kidneys an 
unnecessary amount of labor, thus weakening them and 
rendering them more susceptible to the attacks of dkoase. 
Many of the ailments so prevalent to-day, such as rheuma- 
tism, gout, gastrointestinal disturbances, indigestion, and 
liver troubles, have been found to be closely associated 
with the habitual overeating of protein foods. 

The fact that protein is absolutely essential for the 
growth and repair of the body — there being no other food 
principle that can take its place in furnishing muscle- 
building material — has a tendency to lead people to believe 
that they might be benefited by the consumption of large 
quantities of protein foods, when the fact is that the body 
can use only a limited amount for the development and 
repair of tissue. 

There is wisdom in a diet that shall provide an abun- 
dance of carbohydrates and fats, protein being added only 
in sufficient amounts to meet the needs of the body for 






) 



FOOD VALUES 



_ . f Nitrogenous 
0rga " ,C lNon 



Min. Matter 



nitrogenous 

Inorganic Salts 
Water Protein 



PROTEIN Tissue-forming Substances 
CARBOHYDRATES l u , , r 

FATS | Heat and Energy 

Mineral Matters, Water 



Carbohydrate 




{■ : ""j 



OLIVE OIL 



BUTTER 



flg OLIVES, ripe 


1,1 




j. 




| SALMON [; J 




■ MUTTON, leg 


I 




\ 


1 BEEF, round lean 


I 




fill , 




fl EGGS I 




I MILK 






11 K".- 








| BANANAS 




tif B 






POTATOES 



n 



SQUASH 



CARROTS 



m 



730 
720 
325 
460 
450 
290 
240 
1400 
1605 
470 
465 
385 
215 
210 



16 FOOD AND COOKERY 

nitrogen, and for the growth of fresh muscle fibers. Care- 
ful experiments have demonstrated that the body is best 
sustained in health, and its strength and endurance pro- 
moted, by a diet which contains a proportion of about one 
ounce of protein to nine ounces of carbohydrates and fats. 
In an approximate day's ration of 2,500 calories, ten per 
cent, or about 250 calories, should be protein. The re- 
mainder of the diet, say ninety per cent of the calories, 
may be divided according to individual need or personal 
preference, between carbohydrates and fats, provided some 
amount of each is used. About twenty-five per cent fat 
and sixty-five per cent carbohydrates is considered a good 
proportion. 

A new book entitled "How to Live," by Irving Fisher, 
professor of political economy, of Yale University, and 
Eugene Lyman Fisk, M. D., medical director of. the insti- 
tute, gives the following valuable suggestions, on pages 
36-38, as to the protein requirement in a day's ration: 

"Foods should be so selected as to give the ration the 
right amount of protein, or repair foods, on the one 
hand, and of fats and carbohydrates, or fuel foods, on 
the other. A certain amount of protein is absolutely es- 
sential. . . . The right proportion of protein has been 
the subject of much controversy. According to what are 
regarded as the best investigations, it is generally about 
ten per cent of the total number of heat units consumed. 
This does not, of course, mean ten per cent of the total 
weight, nor ten per cent of the total bulk, but ten per cent 
of the total nutriment; that is, ten calories of protein out 
of every one hundred calories of food." 

"Most persons in America eat much more protein than 
this. But that ten calories out of one hundred is not toe 
small an allowance is evidenced by the analysis of human 
milk. The growing infant needs the maximum proportion 
of protein. . . . Consequently an analysis of human 
mother's milk affords a clue to the maximum protein suit- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 17 

able for human beings. Of this milk, seven calories out 
of every one hundred calories are protein. If all protein 
were as thoroughly utilized as milk protein or meat pro- 
tein, seven calories out of one hundred would be ample; 
but all vegetable proteins are not so completely available. 
Making proper allowance for this fact, we reach the con- 
clusion that ten calories out of every one hundred are 
sufficient." 

A study of the composition of food materials will enable 
us to see the wise provision made for man in the diet ap- 
pointed for him in the beginning. Natural foods, just as 
they come from field and orchard, when taken in proper 
combination with each other, contain the different food 
elements balanced in about the • right proportion to meet 
the needs of the body. 

The various grains contain the food elements in quanti- 
ties more nearly proportionate than any other foods. 
Wheat is regarded as a perfect food, and the representa- 
tive of all foods, containing properties that so nearly 
represent the constituent parts of the body structure as 
to indicate a special providence in its being provided for 
the human family. Bread (entire wheat) is rightly called 
"the staff of life," and from time immemorial, has consti- 
tuted the principal article of diet among all nations and 
in all climes. As a tissue builder, bread contains a pro- 
portion of about ten per cent protein, the recognized diet- 
ary requirement. 

Bread of some kind, therefore, furnishes the basis, or 
"backbone," for the meal, suitable variety being provided 
by the addition of fruits and vegetables in season, alter- 
nating from day to day with one of the more solid foods, 
rich in protein, such as noodles, beans, macaroni, or other 
entree as needed. With the addition of varying quantities 
of milk, cream, and eggs, the problem of balancing the 
food is not a difficult one, but a real pleasure. 



NATURAL FOOD OF MAN 

In order to understand what are the best foods, we must 
study God's original plan for man's diet. He who created 
man, and who understands his needs, appointed Adam his 
food, as it is written : "Behold, I have given you every herb 
yielding seed, . . . and every tree, in which is the fruit 
of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for food." Gene- 
sis 1:29, A. R. V.. 

After the fall, when the ground was cursed for man's 
sake, the herb of the field was added to his diet. Genesis 
3: 17, 18. After the Flood, when all vegetation had been 
destroyed by water, God permitted man to eat flesh. Gene- 
sis 9: 3, 4. 

It is interesting at this point to note the comparison of 
the length of life of men who lived before the Flood, and 
who subsisted upon fruits and grains, with that of the 
generations living immediately after the Flood, who sub- 
sisted upon the flesh of animals, at least as part of their 
daily food. The following figures show that the average 
length of life for nine generations before the Flood, as 
recorded in Genesis 5 : 3-32 ; 9 : 29, was 912 years. The 
average for nine generations after the Flood, when flesh 
meats were used as food, was but 332 years. Genesis 
11: 10-32. 

Before the Flood After the Flood 

NAME AGE NAME # AGE 

Adam 930 Shem 600 

Seth 912 Arphaxad 438 

Enos 905 Salah 433 

Cainan 910 Eber 464 

Mahalaleel 895 Peleg 239 

Jared 962 Reu 239 

Methuselah 969 Serug 230 

Lamech 777 Nahor 148 

Noah 950 Terah 205 

Average — 912 years Average — 332 years 

(18) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 19 

"And Haran died before his father Terah in the land 
of his nativity." Genesis 11 : 28. One would infer, from 
this scripture, that until about the tenth generation after 
the Flood, it was so unusual a thing for a child to die 
before its father, that mention is made of the fact in 
Holy Writ. 

Following on, we briefly trace the history of the chosen 
people in their march down into Egypt, where they came 
under heavy bondage to the Egyptians until the time of 
their deliverance. When the prophetic period had expired, 
and the time for their release had come, God brought 
them out with a strong hand, to make them the deposi- 
taries of the Holy Oracles, and His peculiar treasure 
above all people. Through them, it was designed that all 
the world should come to a knowledge of the true God. 
Their health was jealously guarded, and a fleshless diet 
was given them. Exodus 16: 35; Joshua 5: 12. But they 
despised "the corn of heaven," and cried for flesh; so 
He permitted them to eat clean flesh. Numbers 11:4-6; 
Deuteronomy 14: 3-20. 

Coming down the stream of time, we find the average 
length of life growing shorter and shorter, until, in the 
time of David, the years of man were said to be only 
"threescore and ten" — an evidence that the race was not 
benefited in the least by a diet of flesh. 

Later, in apostolic days, when the gospel was preached 
to the gentiles, the message of physical holiness was again 
proclaimed as a part of the gospel of salvation, in the 
words : "Ye are the temple of God. ... If any man defile 
the temple of God, him shall God destroy ; for the temple of 
God is holy, which temple ye are." 1 Corinthians 3: 16, 
17. Then follows the statement of a great principle, de- 
fining the motive which should actuate the recipients of 
grace in the exercise of Christian temperance in all things, 
and which will prove a safe guide to follow in the selec- 
tion of the kind and quantity of food best suited to the 



20 FOOD AND COOKERY 

keeping of the body in a state of health: "Whether there- 
fore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the 
glory of God." 1 Corinthians 10: 31. 

This principle, if heeded, will control in all matters per- 
taining to the diet, as in every act of life, preserving us 
from intemperance in all its varied forms. "Every prac- 
tice which destroys the physical, mental, and spiritual 
energies is sin. The laws of nature, as truly as the pre- 
cepts of the Decalogue, are divine; and only in obedience 
to them can health be recovered and preserved." 

The desire of God for every human being is expressed 
in the words, "Beloved, I wish above all things that thou 
mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul pros- 
pereth." 3 John 2. Here, as ever, inspiration places the 
health of the body on an equality with the health of the 
soul, as indeed they are dependent one upon the other. 

To the chosen people, the laws relating to both spiritual 
and physical well-being were made plain; and on condi- 
tion of obedience, He assured them: "The Lord will take 
away from thee all sickness." Deuteronomy 7: 15. "Ye 
shall serve the Lord your God, and He shall bless thy 
bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from 
the midst of thee." Exodus 23:25. These promises are 
alike for us to-day; and it is the privilege of every child 
of God, through obedience, to know the meaning of His 
promise, "I am the Lord that healeth thee." Exodus 15 : 26. 

VEGETABLE AND FLESH FOODS CONTEASTED 

In their growth, vegetable foods secrete no poisons; 
whereas in all animals, the very processes of life itself 
consist of the breaking down of tissue and the formation 
of numerous poisons. These poisons are in the flesh when 
the animal is killed, and no amount of cooking can remove 
them. By taking food of vegetable origin, we avoid bur- 
dening the system with this quantity of harmful sub- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 21 

stances, which must be disposed of at a great sacrifice to 
the eliminative organs. 

Though we allow that animal products all contain a 
share of the nutritive constituents necessary for our ex- 
istence, because the animal has taken sustenance from the 
vegetable kingdom, nevertheless, when we eat flesh, we are 
but eating vegetables and grains at second hand. The life 
that was in the vegetable passes into the eater ; and though 
we may receive it in part, by eating the flesh of the ani- 
mal, how much better to get it direct, by eating the food 
that God provided for our use! 

In other words, the ox eats ten pounds of corn, and 
burns up from eight to nine pounds in making one pound 
of flesh. Many ashes result from this process, and these 
waste products (toxins) are responsible for a large share 
of the mischief caused by meat eating. "Animal food, 
which we use and abuse, is not food, but continuous poi- 
soning." — Huchard. 

The process by which meat is made tender (ripe), is 
nothing but waiting for partial decomposition. During 
that time, insidious poisons have developed, and are added 
to those already present during life. This is not true of 
foods from the vegetable kingdom. These harbor within 
themselves the very essence of life, manifest in the tiny 
organ of reproduction, and if hidden in the earth, will 
soon give proof of life within. This assures us of the 
purity and freedom from putrefaction and poisons of the 
food that is to build bone and sinew. 

Since many people have the impression that physical 
strength and health are dependent upon the use of animal 
food, we give the following quotation from "Ministry of 
Healing," by Ellen G. White, page 316, which throws much 
light on this important question, pointing out the advan- 
tages to be gained by the use of a simple and natural diet : 

"It is a mistake to suppose that muscular strength de- 
pends on the use of animal food. The needs of the system 



22 FOOD AND COOKERY 

can be better supplied, and more vigorous health can be 
enjoyed, without its use. The grains, with fruits, nuts, 
and vegetables, contain all the nutritive properties neces- 
sary to make good blood. These elements are not so well 
or so fully supplied by a flesh diet. Had the use of flesh 
been essential to health and strength, animal food would 
have been included in the diet appointed man in the be- 
ginning. 

"When the use of flesh food is discontinued, there is 
often a sense of weakness, a lack of vigor. Many urge 
this as evidence that flesh food is essential; but it is be- 
cause foods of this class are stimulating, because they 
fever the blood and excite the nerves, that they are so 
missed. Some will find it as difficult to leave off flesh 
eating as it is for the drunkard to give up his dram; but 
they will be the better for the change. 

"When flesh food is discarded, its place should be sup- 
plied with a variety of grains, nuts, vegetables, and fruits, 
that will be both nourishing and appetizing." 

Dr. Alexander Haig, a noted physician of London, in 
his book "Uric Acid as a Factor in the Causation of Die- 
ease," on page 864, writes as follows: "That it is easily 
possible to sustain life on the products of the vegetable 
kingdom needs no demonstration for physiologists, even if 
a majority of the human race were not constantly engaged 
in demonstrating it ; and my researches show not only that 
it is possible, but that it is infinitely preferable in every 
way, and produces superior powers of both mind and body." 



FOOD ECONOMY 

"Economy is not saving, but wisely spending." — Ruskin. 

The question of economical nutrition is best answered by 
a thorough and systematic plan of education regarding 
food values. Though a food may be known to be rich in 
nutritive constituents, and of a nature to be easily di- 
gested, we still have to find whether the nutriment yielded 
is obtained at a reasonable cost. When one realizes that 
the market price of a food is no indication of its real value, 
the practical importance of such a test is more convinc- 
ingly felt; for in the market, one usually pays for flavor 
and rarity, and not for nutritive qualities. In other words, 
it is the demands of the palate that cost, and not those 
of nutrition. 

By a study of the chemical analysis of various foods 
bought for a particular sum, this test may be applied 
without difficulty. On comparison, we find that twenty- 
five cents spent for round steak (lean), at twenty-five 
cents a pound, gives food to the value of 670 food units; 
twenty-five cents invested in whitefish, at fifteen cents a 
pound, buys 542 units ; the same for oysters, at fifty cents 
a quart, yields only about 230 units; that amount for 
potatoes, at four cents a pound, obtains 1,938 units; while 
twenty-five cents spent for oatmeal, at seven and a half 
cents a pound, yields 6,200 units ; the same for wheat flour, 
at eight cents a pound, 5,234 units ; and in the form of well 
baked bread ready for use, 3,063 units. 

The economic value of a food depends largely upon its 
capacity for producing energy. The ideal is found in 
such food products as the grains, including bread, rice, 
corn meal, macaroni, etc.; also in legumes, such as dried 
peas and beans; and in immature green vegetables, such 
as green corn, green peas, and the like. Adding to these 
milk, cream, and eggs, there is a wide variety from which 

(23) 



FOOD 


ECONOMY 


Calories of Protein and Total Calories 
Obtained for 25 Cents 

In Some General Articles of Diet 




A Hides 


25c will buy 
Price Pounds 


Calories 

Protein 


Total 
Calories 


Oysters (solids) 


. . 50c a qt. 


1 


108 


230 


Whitefish 


. . 15c a lb . 


1% 


325 


542 


Eggs 


. .40c a dz. 


15 oz. 


201 


595 


Beef (round lean ) .... 


. .25c a lb. 


1 


336 


670 


Peaches 


. . 4c a IT) . 


6V 4 


56 


969 






- 


27 


1,100 
1,625 


Milk 


. . 10c a qt. 


5 


298 


Potatoes 


. 4 c a IT) . 


6% 


200 


1,938 




.15c a TT) 


1% 


53 


1,983 
2.0Y5 


Almonds 


. . 20c a TT) . 


lVi 


260 


Beans (dried) 


. . 1 Sc a TT» . 


1 2-5 


568 


2,229 


Butter 




5-9 


10 


2,253 

2,890 


Raisins 


. . 12V 2 c a TT». 




42 


Bread (homemade) . . . 


. 1 Oc a lb . 


2% 


413 


3.063 


Crackers (Graham) . . . 


. . 15c a lb. 


1% 


300 


3,258 




. 12V 2 c a lb. 


2 


888 


3,310 




. . 12 % e a lb . 


2 


483 


3,330 


Rice 


. . 10c a lb. 


2V 2 


362 


4,075 


Wheat Flour (entire).. 


. . 8c a IT). 


3Vs 


779 


5,234 


Corn Meal (granular) . . 


. . 7c a IT) . 


3 4-7 


594 , 


5,911 


Rolled Oats 


. 7 y 2 c a lb . 


3% 


970 


6,200 





(24) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 25 

to choose a diet of non-irritating and easily digested foods 
that take the lead as a source of nourishment both from 
the economic and also from the health point of view. 

PRACTICAL HINTS 

Careful planning, so as to avoid wastage, is one of the 
first steps in the attainment of successful household man- 
agement. It is estimated that from fifteen to twenty per 
cent of all foods going into American kitchens is wasted. 
A few suggestions as to how the housewife may avoid a 
needless waste of food material in its care and prepara- 
tion may be of interest. 

In the first place, there should be a carefulness in the 
outlay, with freedom from extravagance. Plan the meals 
carefully from a select variety of only a few kinds of 
food, avoiding a large array of hearty and more expensive 
foods, which are not needed, and a great deal of which 
will be left over at the end of the meal. Preference should 
be given to the simpler and more inexpensive yet whole- 
some foods that are at hand every day. 

All foods left over should be reheated before there is 
the first sign of spoiling. Many foods gain richness in 
reheating. No food should be left adhering to the kettles 
in which they are cooked. All fragments should be care- 
fully saved and utilized. 

Vegetables should not be pared too thickly. Neither 
should the water from cooked vegetables be thrown away; 
it contains valuable salts, and should be used for soups and 
gravies. 

Thought should be given to the purchase and care of 
perishable foods. Overripe fruit, if purchased at all, 
should be purchased only for immediate use. Fruit kept 
in store should be examined often for the purpose of dis- 
carding any that may have begun to decay. Lemons should 
be laid on a shelf, space being left between, that they may 
not so readily mold. 



26 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Lettuce and celery may be kept by first wrapping them 
in dry paper, then wringing another paper or cloth out 
of water and wrapping around the outside, and keeping 
in a dark place. 

All celery stalks left over, and their leaves, may be put 
into the warming oven and thoroughly dried to be kept for 
flavorings. The outer skins of red onions, while they have 
scarcely any flavor, are rich in coloring matter, and give 
a nice brown color to a vegetable broth or gravy ; and they 
should be kept in a glass jar for use as needed. 

Bread crusts should not be left to accumulate for too 
long a time, but should be used for making an entree, or 
a simple pudding with raisins, or they may be put into the 
warming oven and thoroughly dried, ground through a 
mill, and kept for various uses. 

Lastly, "preach the gospel of the clean plate." Too 
much food is ordinarily served at the first serving, with 
the result that good food which might have been saved 
finds its way into the garbage can. Small portions, with a 
second serving if desired, are always in good taste. 



FOOD PREPARATION 

"Food ivell cooked is partially digested" 

Cookery as an art ranks highest in the department of 
useful knowledge, connected as it is with the welfare of 
every human being. When understood in all its bearings, 
and conducted on scientific principles, it promotes health, 
tends toward moral and social improvement, and adds the 
charm of contentment to everyday life. 

The nutritive value of many foods depends upon how 
they are cooked. Many articles which, owing to their 
chemical condition or other cause, are quite unfit for nour- 
ishment when raw, are very nutritious when cooked. Cook- 
ing changes the food, and enables the saliva to get hold 
of it and convert it into sugar. Many inexpensive arti- 
cles and "left-overs," if carefully prepared and attractively 
served, may be just as appetizing as more expensive foods, 
and will usually be found quite as nutritious. 

OBJECTS SOUGHT IN COOKING 

There are three chief purposes sought in cooking. The 
first is to change the mechanical condition of the food so 
as to make it more digestible. The second object is to de- 
velop its flavors, making it more palatable and inviting. 
The third is to kill by heat any disease germs, parasites, 
or other dangerous organisms it may contain. 

In the first object, that of digestibility, we have to deal 
most of all with starch, as that is the most abundant of 
all foods. In its raw state, starch is not digested by saliva, 
and only in small quantities by the intestinal fluids; so in 
order for man to appropriate it, the woody envelope that 
incloses the starch granule must be broken, by being sub- 
jected to dry or moist heat. Boiling prepares the food and 
carries it only so far as soluble starch, leaving it subject 
to fermentation. Dry heat, or baking, forwards the proc- 

(27) 



28 FOOD AND COOKERY 

ess into the dextrin stage; after which, through the proc- 
ess of digestion, it is brought to the maltose stage, where 
it is unfermentable. 

All the common vegetables, such as potatoes, turnips, 
carrots, and beets, and different grains, such as rice, wheat, 
corn, oats, etc., neither taste good nor are easily digested 
until their starch, cellulose, and other constituents have 
been changed from their compact, indigestible form by the 
action of heat. 

In the second step, development of food flavors, the ob- 
ject sought is to retain the valuable mineral salts and 
flavoring substances in the food. All young, tender vege- 
tables, such as string beans, green peas, etc., should be 
cooked in water only sufficient to cover them, and the 
remaining liquid should be served with the vegetable. 
During the cooking, the cover should be drawn to one side 
of the stewpan or kettle, to allow the volatile bodies gen- 
erated by the heat to pass off in the steam. These would 
otherwise impart to the vegetable a strong flavor and a 
dark color. Fresh vegetables should always be thoroughly 
cooked, but the cooking should stop while the vegetable is 
yet firm. Overcooking changes and toughens the texture 
of vegetable foods, destroys the coloring matters, and in- 
jures the mineral bodies that contribute to the flavor. 

Vegetables should be allowed to simmer slowly during 
the cooking, as rapid boiling tends to chip off the surface 
of the food, making it less palatable, and with a loss in 
nutriment. Rapid boiling hardens some foods, for in- 
stance, green corn, which should be put into boiling water 
and let simmer slowly for twenty minutes. 

Various cooking processes also have much to do with 
the development of the flavors in food, and rank in value 
as they do or do not retain the mineral or flavoring mat- 
ters. Baking is the best method for potato, squash, dried 
beans, etc.; and by this method, no nutritive material is 
lost. Steaming, or cooking in a perforated vessel over 



FOOD AND COOKERY 29 

boiling water, is a good method for nearly all vegetables; 
and by this method, no nutritive material is lost, but the 
vegetables will have less flavor than when baked. Stew- 
ing, or cooking in so little water that it is almost boiled 
out at the end of the process, .the remaining liquid being 
served with the food, is the best method for vegetables with 
which a sauce is desired. It is very suitable for young and 
tender spinach, which can be cooked with no additional 
water beyond that remaining on the leaves after washing. 
As greens age, they absorb bitter flavor, and must then 
be cooked in deep boiling water with the cover off. This 
method is also permissible for such strong flavored vege- 
tables as cabbage, old onions, old beets, and old potatoes 
boiled in the skins. It is a wasteful method. 

The third step is that of destroying disease germs, or 
other dangerous organisms that may be present. Food 
and drink may be very dangerous purveyors of disease. 
The bacteria of typhoid fever sometimes find their way 
into drinking water, and those of typhoid and scarlet fever 
and diphtheria into milk, and bring sickness and death to 
a large number of people. 

Vegetables and fruits may become contaminated with 
the eggs of numerous parasites from the fertilizers ap- 
plied to them. Raw fruits and vegetables should always 
oe very thoroughly washed before they are served if there 
is any doubt as to their cleanliness. If the food is suffi- 
ciently heated in cooking, all organisms are killed. 

PRINCIPLES OF SUCCESSFUL COOKERY 

The two fundamental principles of successful cookery 
are: first, simplicity; second, appetizing serving. The 
meaning of simplicity in this connection is, to conserve 
and develop the natural flavors of the particular food 
Under hand, and not to confuse it with so many foreign 
substances as to make the whole a nameless mixture. 



30 FOOD AND COOKERY 

God has placed in each food certain delicate flavors and 
attractive colors, which may be preserved in the food by 
proper cooking. A great lack of judgment is often ob- 
served in the way different foods are mixed together with- 
out regard to the effect of the flavor of one food upon the 
other ; likewise in the addition of large quantities of strong 
flavored substances, such as bay leaf, sage, thyme, and 
onion, to foods of delicate flavor, whereby the identity .of 
the food is largely lost. 

A sprinkle of onion flavor with the potato, in making 
potato soup, adds greatly to its palatability ; but a little 
too much onion will so cover up the delicate flavor of the 
potato as to make the soup a disappointment. Cream and 
tomato combined make a very palatable and nourishing 
soup, and the combination is agreeable. By the addition 
of fried bones, onion, and spices, however, the tomato 
flavor is so predominated by the stronger flavors as to 
make the soup a sort of nondescript, and consequently not 
in harmony with that simplicity in cookery which special- 
izes on the development and conservation of those delicate 
flavors in food which are really satisfying to the natural 
taste. 

The close affinity that exists between coloring matter in 
vegetable foods and their flavors, precludes any thought of 
retaining the one without the presence of the other. In 
order that the green color in fresh vegetables may be pre- 
served, they should be put to cook in boiling water; for 
this seals up the cells, as it were, and prevents the escape 
of much of the valuable salts and coloring matter. And 
the water should be kept boiling continuously until the food 
is done. Cold water, when added to fresh vegetables in 
cooking, extracts both color and flavor from the food, leav- 
ing it more or less insipid to the taste. Exception is made 
in the making of soups and vegetable stews, where the 
object is to extract the flavors into the broth or the gravy. 






FOOD AND COOKERY 31 

The gift of taste came from God, just as much as 
sight or hearing; and we should derive enjoyment from 
the healthy exercise and proper use of these special senses. 
Through habitual indulgence in stimulants, condiments, 
and highly seasoned foods, the taste becomes perverted, 
and as a result, can detect but few flavors in food, prin- 
cipally salt, sweet, bitter, and sour. By partaking of sim- 
ple food, carefully prepared, and served in an appetizing 
manner, the sense of taste may be so developed as to en- 
able us to get genuine satisfaction from extracting good 
flavors out of the food we are eating, as a lover of music 
does from hearing a star musical performance, or as an 
artist does from seeing some masterpiece in an art gallery. 

In the second principle, that of appetizing serving, the 
aim is to satisfy the sense of sight and the sense of smell, 
as both have a direct bearing upon the digestion of food. 

It is a well established fact that all the iuices which 
aid the digestive processes are called forth at sight of 
food that is appetizingly and attractively served. The 
simple garnitures which all may employ, — a sprig of green, 
a friendly flower, contrast in color and design — and care 
to provide clean linen and appropriate dishes for serving, 
will greatly enhance the pleasure of the children and the 
grown-ups at the family board. 

God has provided for our eyes fruits and flowers in the 
most attractive designs and colors. The wonderful hues 
and tints of the fruits that are "good for food" tempt us 
to enjoy their delightful flavors. If, however, foods are 
served with spots of bruise in evidence, or revealing rough, 
untrimmed surfaces, or in cracked dishes, or otherwise 
out of harmony, wherein lies the inducement to partake of 
and appropriate these foods to the needs of the body? 

"God saw everything that He had made, and, behold, it 
was very good." Genesis 1 : 31. His injunction to us, 
"Eat ye that which is good," calls our attention to the 
reason as well. We are made of that which we eat. Our 

3 — Food and Cookery 



32 FOOD AND COOKERY 

food becomes our lifeblood. It should therefore be pure 
and palatable. It should be served attractively, that it may 
best offer to the human body the nutrition its elements 
contain. 

There is therefore the utmost need that sufficient time be 
given to the preparation and careful service of the daily 
food, since this is to become the life of these human tem- 
ples God has given. 

FREE FATS IN COOKING 

The question of the use of free fats in cooking should 
receive careful and thoughtful consideration, inasmuch as 
any extreme course in either direction is fraught with con- 
sequences that are detrimental to health. Many of the 
edible plants are deficient in the fat element; and instinc- 
tively, it would seem, man puts cream or butter on his 
bread. Fresh vegetables, while they have their delicate 
and characteristic flavors, taste "flat" without the addition 
of a little cream or free fat of some kind. 

Nature serves fats in the very best form to be utilized 
by the body; that is, emulsified. These wholesome fats 
are supplied in nuts and olives, also in the yolk of egg, and 
in milk and cream. When taken in this form, each minute 
globule of fat is surrounded with a thin envelope, which 
holds the fat particles apart, and protects the foods from 
the free fat, thus permitting them to be readily digested. 

Digestion of free fat takes place mainly in the small 
intestines. The pancreatic juice contains an enzyme called 
steapsin, which has the power of emulsifying fats, and also 
of splitting them into fatty acids and glycerin. The bile 
is an important factor in the digestion of fat. It has the 
power of greatly increasing the activity of the pancreatic 
lipase, and of holding in solution the fatty acids formed 
by its action, so that they are more perfectly absorbed. 

Free or neutral fats, if used too freely with meals, have 
a tendency to smear over the foods, and interfere with 



FOOD AND COOKERY 33 

their digestion. The prolonged retention of free fats in the 
stomach favors fermentation and rancidity, often produc- 
ing heartburn and intestinal catarrh. 

Free fats, however, are more digestible when cold than 
when hot, because hot fats not only coat but intimately 
penetrate the food with which it is cooked. This is espe- 
cially true of fried foods, where each part of food is coated 
with a layer of fat, which keeps the digestive juices from 
acting on the other food elements. 

In seasoning such foods as hash or baked dressing, where 
the cooked potato in the hash and the soaked bread in the 
dressing readily absorb fat, and thus tend to make the food 
difficult of digestion, let the free fat first be used in making 
a sauce or a gravy, and then add this to the food. In this 
manner, the fat is not liberated to coat the starch granules, 
as is the case when free fat by itself is mixed with the 
starch and baked. 



COMBINATIONS AND MENU 
MAKING 

"The stomach crammed from every dish 
Of boil and roast, and flesh and fish, 
Where wind and phlegm and acid jar, 
And the whole man is one intestine war, 
Longs oft for schoolboy's simple fare, 
The temperate sleep, and spirits light as air." 

In order to eat for health and efficiency, man must ob- 
serve certain fixed laws in regard to the choice of his diet. 
He must have his due share of growth and repair foods, 
the proteins; there must be the proper proportion of car- 
bohydrates and fats, heat and energy producers; blended 
with these, there must be such mineral matters as are 
necessary for the repair of bones and teeth, and a proper 
bulk to stimulate active elimination. 

Not only does the body need all these elements, but for 
perfect health, they must be taken into the stomach in 
right chemical combinations. Many people who think that 
a certain food does not agree with them, may find that 
the trouble is not with the food, but with the fact that the 
foods eaten have disagreed with one another. Many foods 
which in themselves are good, if mixed indiscriminately 
with a number of other foods at the same meal, may be- 
come actually poisonous, and produce fermentation, acidity, 
gas in the stomach, and many other ills leading to most 
serious consequences. 

W. 0. Atwater, Ph. D., of the Department of Agricul- 
ture, Washington, D. C, in Farmer's Bulletin, No. 142, 
writes as follows: "How much harm is done by the in- 
jurious compounds sometimes formed from ordinary whole- 
some foods is seldom realized. Physiological chemistry is 
revealing the fact that these compounds may affect even 
the brain and the nerves, and that some forms of insanity 

(34) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 35 

are caused by products formed by the abnormal transfor- 
mations of food and body material." 

Before entering into a discussion of any foods that may 
or may not be antagonistic to one another, it may be well 
to notice a few common practices which work at cross- 
purposes with Nature's efforts for our best good, and 
which, if persistently followed, will neutralize any benefit 
that could be derived from an otherwise strict regimen. 

1. Large Variety. — The serving of any considerable 
number of foods at one meal leads inevitably to overeat- 
ing, which overtaxes the digestive organs, and thus makes 
for fermentation, and poisoning rather than nourishing 
the system. Overtaxation of the digestive organs is a bad 
form of dissipation, and is said to be the cause of more 
disease, whether directly or indirectly, than is caused by 
all alcoholic dissipation combined, the latter often being 
due to the former. "The feast is worse than the fast," if 
it tempts the appetite beyond the legitimate needs of the 
body, or if it brings together elements that the digestive 
organs are unable to cope with. 

Dr. Alexander Haig says on this point: "Diet as at pres- 
ent used is often the product of a vast amount of igno- 
rance; it is the cause of a hideous waste of time and 
money; it produces mental and moral obliquities, destroys 
health and shortens life, and generally quite fails to fulfill 
its proper purpose. I may say also that simple food of 
not more than two or three kinds at one meal is a great 
secret of health." (Compare "Ministry of Healing," page 
310.) 

2. Irregular and Too Frequent Eating. — "If you keep 
your digestive mill constantly grinding, it will soon wear 
out." 

Some people indulge the habit of eating between meals 
because of ignorance; but many more, because of insuffi- 
cient will power to resist the inclination. This practice 
invariably results in enfeebled and disordered digestion, 



36 FOOD AND COOKERY 

and prepares the way for many diseases, by lowering the 
body's vitality, thus disposing it to sickness and premature 
old age. 

As a rule, meals come too closely together. The stomach 
should have time to dispose of one meal before another is 
introduced, with an interval of rest between; because the 
muscles of the stomach need rest after active work, just 
as do the muscles of the arm. The glands must have time 
to become recharged with a good quality of gastric juice. 
At least five or six hours should intervene between meals. 

Not more than three meals should be taken daily. The 
evening meal should be light, and composed of foods most 
easily digested, such as zwieback, crackers, fruit, and milk 
or cereal coffee, and should be eaten at least three hours 
before bedtime. As a result of eating late suppers, the 
digestive process is continued through the sleeping hours, 
causing restless dreams and improper digestion. Thus the 
system is deprived of the needed recuperation from the 
previous day's work. The result is that the morning finds 
the person awakening unrefreshed, with little relish for 
breakfast. 

For most people, two meals are better than three. Espe- 
cially is this so with people of sedentary habit and with 
brain workers. If there is an "all gone" feeling at night 
before one retires, this is not necessarily a sign that the 
body needs more food, but usually that it needs rest, in 
which case a drink of cold water is about all that is re- 
quired, or at most some fruit juice or an orange. By morn- 
ing, the "all gone" feeling will have vanished, showing that 
rest and not food was what the stomach demanded. 

3. Hasty Eating. — "The teeth were put in the mouth, not 
in the stomach ; so the first thing is to chew. If you chew 
long, you will live long, and you will not need to eat so 
much. If you taste your food before you swallow it, you 
will not have to taste it afterward." — David Paulson, M. D. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 37 

Mastication is an important part of digestion; and when 
foods are not thoroughly masticated, additional work is 
required of the stomach, and that organ is overworked, be- 
cause of having to do the mouth's work in addition to its 
own. Hasty eating, or "bolting" of food, is a fruitful 
cause of overeating. The food does not remain in the 
mouth long enough, under this condition, to give the satis- 
faction that it gives when thoroughly masticated ; so in an 
effort to satisfy the craving for food, more is taken than 
the body requires. Dry foods, which induce mastication, 
should have a prominent place in the dietary. 

4. Condiments. — All condiments are excitants of the 
stomach and of the digestive tract, which they irritate 
and congest. Being agents of high seasoning, they serve 
to awaken the appetite, not to satisfy it. A few quotations 
from well-known authors on this subject follow: 

"In this fast age, the less exciting the food, the better. 
Condiments are injurious in their nature. Mustard, pep- 
per, spices, pickles, and other things of a like character, 
irritate the stomach and make the blood feverish and im- 
pure." — "Ministry of Healing,'* page 325. 

Dr. Gilman Thompson, in his book "Practical Dietetics," 
pages 289 and 293, says: "They at first cause more food 
to be eaten than necessary, and eventually destroy the ap- 
petite, developing chronic dyspepsia of an aggravated 
type." "An excess of vinegar habitually consumed with 
pickles, or otherwise, causes anaemia and emaciation by 
lessening the number of red corpuscles and reducing the 
alkalinity of the blood." 

Vinegar is made from wine, beer, cider, and from various 
fruits by a process of fermentation, and is an irritant to 
the delicate internal linings of the alimentary canal. 
Lemon juice, pure and wholesome, should supplant it for 
table use, and will be found to meet all the requirements 
of an acid in the preparation of food. 



38 FOOD AND COOKERY 

5. Stimulants. — Stimulation serves to bring an excess of 
blood to the mucous surface of the stomach. This creates 
abnormal appetite, usually mistaken for hunger, to satisfy 
which, one overeats, with the result that the digestive or- 
gans are burdened with a quantity of food which it will 
tax the system to dispose of. 

"Tea and coffee are drugs, not foods, and should come 
from the drug store instead of the kitchen." 

The principal and active constituents of tea and coffee 
are caffeine, tannic acid, and volatile oil. The effect of 
caffeine upon the body is to stimulate the nervous system. 
It removes the sense of fatigue, but produces sleeplessness, 
often followed by palpitation of the heart, indigestion, trem- 
bling, and many other evils. A noted author on materia 
medica (Potter) makes the following statement in regard 
to caffeine: 

"Used to excess, it disorders digestion, and causes func- 
tional disturbances of the nervous system, shown by head- 
ache, vertigo, mental confusion, and palpitation of the 
heart. It increases secretion, blunts sensation, exerts re- 
flex excitability, increases mental activity, and may pro- 
duce insomnia and great nervous restlessness. It first 
briefly stimulates the heart and raises arterial tension, 
but soon depresses both." 

Dr. Gilman Thompson again on this point says: "The 
ill effects of excessive tea drinking — the 'tea habit' — are 
referable to its action on the digestive and nervous sys- 
tems, and are cumulative. If taken in large quantities 
with meals, tea precipitates the digestive ferments, retards 
the activity of digestion, and may occasion gastric irrita- 
tion and catarrh. Constipation usually results. . . . The 
effect of the 'tea habit' on the nervous system is to over- 
stimulate and then depress it, first producing restlessness, 
worry, and insomnia, and finally muscular tremors, sen- 
sory disturbances, and palpitation." "In a recent report 



FOOD AND COOKERY 39 

upon insanity in Ireland, tea is mentioned as a contribut- 
ing factor."— "Practical Dietetics," pages 250, 251. 

PLANNING THE MEAL 

Since the health and efficiency of the family so directly 
depend upon what they eat, no other study is more worthy 
of the housewife's attention than the art of planning har- 
mony in her meals. 

A small amount of food in right combination will give 
more energy than a large amount poorly combined. This 
makes the selection of foods a matter not only of health, 
but of economics; and when the principles of combining 
foods are rightly understood, very palatable and nutritious 
meals may be prepared from the most simple and inex- 
pensive foods. 

In the planning of meals, foods must be considered from 
two general standpoints, that of nutrition and that of 
agreement together. In reference to the first considera- 
tion — that of supplying the various food principles in right 
proportion — if we think of foods in the following four 
groups, and see to it that at least one food from each group 
is served at least once a day, the daily ration will lack no 
necessary kind of food material. 

1. Carbohydrates. — These include cereal grains, — wheat, 
rye, corn, oats, rice, etc. ; and their products, — bread, mac- 
aroni, noodles, breakfast foods, and the like; also pota- 
toes, bananas, dried fruits, honey, etc. 

2. Fats. — Olives, nuts, cream, butter, vegetable oils, etc. 

3. Proteins. — Dried peas, beans, and lentils; milk, eggs, 
cottage cheese, nuts, macaroni, whole grains. 

4. Mineral Matter, Vitamines, and Body-Regulating Sub- 
stances. — Fresh fruits and vegetables of all kinds; whole 
grains, unbolted flours, meals, etc. 

Food combinations, therefore, play an important part 
in a well balanced ration. For instance, potatoes, which 



40 FOOD AND COOKERY 

are mostly starch, and eggs, which are largely albumen 
and fat, may be combined in such a way as to furnish all 
the needed elements in right proportion. As rice is nearly 
all starch, and beans are rich in protein, these make an 
excellent combination. Nuts, rich in proteins and fats, 
and fruits, containing sugar and acids, also combine well. 
To a meal composed largely of potatoes and rice, which are 
deficient in proteins and fats, there may be added a little 
cream, a few ripe olives, and a few nuts, to balance the 
needed elements in a meal. 

In seeking to provide foods that will give proper nour- 
ishment to the body, we should avoid the extremes in either 
of two directions: on the one hand, that which tends to- 
ward an impoverished diet; on the other hand, that which 
brings into one meal too many heavy, highly concentrated 
foods. For instance, it will be seen that fresh vegetables, 
especially the coarser kinds, contain a large proportion of 
water in their composition, and thus by themselves would 
fail of supplying the proper nutrition to the body; but 
when served with the more solid foods, as grains, nuts 
and nut foods, or legumes, they furnish the needed bulk to 
the food, and are rich in mineral matters. 

A few general rules for combinations from the stand- 
point of agreement are given below. 

Foods that agree well together are: 

Grains with fruit and nuts. 

Grains with milk. 

Grains with eggs. 

Grains with vegetables and nuts. 

Fruit and nuts. 

Foods that do not digest well together are : 

Fruits and vegetables, especially the coarse 

vegetables. 
Milk and sugar in quantities. 
Foods cooked in fats. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 41 

Fruits, as a rule, are very easily digested; while coarse 
vegetables, such as turnips, carrots, beets, tubers, cooked 
cabbage, and the like, require from three to four hours or 
more for digestion. Therefore when the two are mixed 
in the stomach, the delayed process of vegetable digestion 
serves to detain the fruit juices until fermentation is the 
natural result. The finer or fruity vegetables, which ripen 
in the sun, such as green peas, green corn, tomatoes, pump- 
kin, squash, cucumbers, melons, and the like, may be used 
with subacid fruits, by most people in health; and this 
should be taken into consideration in the making out of 
the plans. 

In order to choose foods that will combine well in a 
meal, it is a good plan to select some dish as the keynote, 
so to speak, and group around it such others as will har- 
monize with it. 

A safe plan to follow is to see that the soup, the relishes, 
and the dessert, if used, harmonize with each other, as 
nearly every one will partake of all three of these. If 
fruit salad or fruit dessert is used, and a vegetable is 
chosen, it should be of the finer or fruity kind. 

In the old-fashioned "boiled dinner," including cabbage, 
turnips, potatoes, onions, etc., the mixture of vegetables 
should govern the selection of both soup and dessert, which 
should be chemically in keeping with it. Fresh fruits, fruit 
soup, or fruit dessert should never be combined with this 
kind of meal; but grains, nuts, and bread or rice pudding 
may be used, with a soup of some kind of legume, as peas, 
or beans, etc., or other nutritious food. 

Sugar and milk taken together in large quantities are 
especially harmful. The adding of much sugar to mushes, 
or its too free use in cakes and puddings, makes them less 
wholesome in proportion to the amount added. The follow- 
ing quotation is given from "Ministry of Healing," page 
302, and is to the point: 



42 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



"Far too much sugar is ordinarily used in food. Cakes, 
sweet puddings, pastries, jellies, jams, are active causes 
of indigestion. Especially harmful are the custards and 
puddings in which milk, eggs, and sugar are the chief in- 
gredients. The free use of milk and sugar taken together 
should be avoided." 



SIMPLE MENUS 

The following menus are designed to represent a fair 
combination of foods in meals, both from the standpoint 
of nutrition, and also of agreement. 



ORANGES 
CORN DODGERS 



BREAKFAST 

STEAMED NATURAL BROWN RICE 
CREAM HONEY 

DINNER 



APPLE SAUCE 
BAKED GARBANZOS 



LETTUCE • NEW ENGLAND DINNER RIPE OLIVES 

i 
ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD ENGLISH WALNUTS 

HOOVER PUDDIXG 



LUNCHEON 

BAKED BANANAS 
RYE WAFERS CREAM RICE 



CANTALOUPE 

CORN PUFFS 



BREAKFAST 

SAVORY HASH 
MILK 

DINNER 



GRAPES 

CEREAL COFFEE 



JELLIED EGG 
BUTTER 



SLICED TOMATO 
RYE BREAD 



CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

WHOLE RICE WITH PEAS 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

LUNCHEON 



COTTAGE CHEESE 
BUTTER 



PEARS STEWED PRUNES MILK TOAST 

CREAM ROLLS CEREAL COFFEE 

The accompanying table gives the proportion of food 
elements in some of our most common foods. By a little 
study, one can become sufficiently intelligent along this line 
to keep the diet properly balanced. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 43 



TABLE OF FOOD COMPOSITION 

Name Portion Containing Wt. of Per cent of 

100 Calories 100 C. 



§ ^ O *e *a > 

a^ = "* 9 ? 

§."8 § « «• ft 



£•8 



a o 



Apple Sauce ordinary serving .... 3.3 2 5 93 

Apples, raw 2 apples 7.3 3 7 90 

Apricots, cooked . . . .large serving 4.6 6 94 

Bananas 1 large 3.5 5 5 90 

Beans, baked small size dish 2.6 21 18 61 

Beans, string 5 servings 16.6 15 48 3 7 

Beets 3 servings 8.7 2 23 75 

Bread, corn small square 1.3 12 16 72 

Bread, rye 2 small slices 1.4 14 2 84 

Bread, white ordinary thick slice... 1.3 13 6 81 

Bread, whole wheat. .2 small slices 1.4 16 3 81 

Butter small pat 44 .5 99.5 

Buttermilk 1 ^ glasses 9.7 34 12 54 

Cake, sponge small piece 2.5 19 10 71 

Cantaloupe ordinary serving 8.6 6 94 

Carrots 2 servings 5.8 10 34 56 

Corn Flakes ordinary bowl 97 11 1 88 

Corn,' sweet ordinary serving 3.5 13 10 77 

Cottage Cheese small serving 3.1 76 8 16 

Grape Juice small glass 4.2 100 

Macaroni, cooked ...ordinary serving 3.85 14 15 71 

Milk, whole small glass 4.9 19 52 29 

Milk, skimmed 1V 2 glasses 9.4 37 7 56 

Hominy, cooked . . . .large serving 4.2 11 2 87 

Honey 4 teaspoonfuls 1.05 1 99 

Olives, ripe 7 olives 1.3 2 91 7 

Orange Juice 1 te^cupful 6.6 100 

Peaches 2 medium size 4.7 4 2 94 

Peanuts about 26 62 20 63 17 

Pears 1 large 5.4 4 7 89 

Peas, green 1 serving 3. 23 27 50 

Pecan Nuts about 8 46 6 87 7 

Potatoes, baked 1 large 3. 11 1 88 

Rice, cooked ordinarv bowl 3.1 10 1 89 

Rolls, buns 1 large 1.2 12 7 81 

Soup, cream barley, .ordinary bowl 5. 14 33 53 

Strawberries 2 servings 9.1 10 15 75 

Sugar, granulated . .IVz tablespoonfuls ... .86 100 

Sugar, maple 2 tablespoonfuls 1.03 100 

Tomatoes, fresh ... .4 medium size 15. 15 16 69 

Wheat Flour 4 tablespoonfuls 96 15 5 80 

Zwieback one thick slice 81 9 21 70 



COURSE OF COOKING LESSONS 

The following course of lessons is in no way intended 
as a complete guide to hygienic cookery. Of the great 
variety of ways that are healthful and nourishing, in 
whicli grains, fruits, nuts, and vegetables may be prepared, 
only a few of the most practical can be taken up here. 

For class work, this course consists of a series of twenty 
lessons, two lessons each week, and each period occupying 
two hours; but it may be modified by the instructor ac- 
cording to convenience, the occasion, or the length of time 
given for class periods. The number of pupils composing 
a class should range fr^m eight to twenty-four. Careful 
attention is given to the study of the nutritive values of 
foods, their digestibility, combinations, etc., and to the 
general principles involved in the making of menus. A 
study of the recipes, with accompanying instructions, be- 
fore beginning the practical work of each class, will sim- 
plify the work, and aid the students in an understanding 
of the principles brought out. 

LESSON OUTLINE 

Lesson 1. Pasteurized milk, lactosa, cottage cheese, vege- 
table butter, steamed natural rice, wheat sticks, 
prune whip. 

Lesson 2. Cream of tomato soup, baked dressing without 
eggs, brown gravy, steamed fruit pudding. 

Lesson 3. Whole rice with peas, corn dodgers, stewed 
beets, oat gruel, Hoover pudding. 

Lesson 4. Nut and potato pie, stewed carrots, buckwheat 
sticks, pumpkin pie without eggs. 

Lesson 5. Aerated wheat gems, Spanish rice, gluten gruel, 
lemon snow. 

Lesson 6. Vegetable salads, dressings, garnitures. 

Lesson 7. Family potato soup, ribbon bean loaf, baked 
bean puree, corn bread, Graham fruit pudding. 

Lesson 8. Macaroni family style, spinach, browned rice, 
corn meal crisps. 

(44) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 45 

Lesson 9. Vegetable gelatin, orange jelly, lemon jelly, 
berry jelly, fruit mold, vegetable loaf en aspic. 

Lesson 10. Julienne soup, bean patties, rice and egg cro- 
quettes, apple and raisin pudding. 

Lesson 11. Noodles, soy bean-rice loaf, soy bean-rice pat- 
ties, lemon pie, junket. 

Lesson 12. Cream of corn soup, loaf cake, plain icing, 
toast water. 

Lesson 13. Peas with noodles, macaroni au gratin, baked 
eggplant, cream sauce, gluten biscuit. 

Lesson 14. Principles of bread making, wheat bread, glu- 
ten bread, rolls, buns. 

Lesson 15. Potato stew with dumplings, grano cereal, 
cream rice pudding. 

Lesson 16. Savory hash, fruit crisps, rice water, albumen- 
ized milk, fruit soup. 

Lesson 17. Wheat puffs, baked Lima beans, duchess potato, 
pressed fruit pudding. 

Lesson 18. Principles of canning and preserving — practi- 
cal work. 

Lesson 19. Fruit salads, baked banana, jellied egg, lemon 
whey. 

Lesson 20. Layer cake, frosting, ornamenting. 

ESSENTIALS .TO SUCCESS 

In this work, as in any other, two things are vital to 
success, — first a careful planning, and then the carrying 
out of the plans made; as expressed in the terse sentence, 
"Plan your work, then work your plan." 

All the ingredients necessary for the preparation of a 
dish should be at hand and carefully measured before we 
begin to combine them. Accuracy in measuring and care- 
fulness in combining are as essential to the success of a 
recipe as is the knowledge of what is to go into it. 

The effect of heat at different temperatures, and the 
time of exposure to it, must be understood. But this 
knowledge can come only as a result of experience. 

The following articles are necessary for measuring: 
a cup holding exactly one half pint, with thirds and fourths 
indicated, teaspoons and tablespoons of regulation sizes, 



46 FOOD AND COOKERY 

and a commcn table knife. To insure uniformly good re- 
sults, level measurements have been adopted by leading 
teachers in cookery, as the best guide that can be given; 
and these will be used throughout this book. The follow- 
ing table of measures may be used as a guide : 

TABLE OF MEASURES 

3 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon 

2 tablespoons of sugar or liquid. . .equal 1 ounce 

16 tablespoons equal 1 cup 

4 cups equal 1 quart 

2 cups sugar and most liquids. . . .equal 1 pound 

10 eggs equal 1 pint 

9 whites equal 1 cup 

12 yolks (large) equal 1 cup 

To measure a cupful of any dry ingredient, fill the 
cup, rounding slightly by placing material in the cup 
with a spoon; and with the sharp edge of a case knife, 
brush off all material that is piled above the brim. Care 
must be taken not to shake the cup. 

To measure a teaspoon or tablespoon of dry ingredients, 
dip the spoon into the same, and with the edge of a case 
knife turned toward the tip of the spoon, brush off all 
that extends above its edge. For one half spoonful, divide 
with a knife lengthwise of the spoon, and push out one 
half; divide halves crosswise for quarters. The term 
"sifted flour" implies that flour is sifted once before meas- 
uring. 

In combining ingredients, three movements are em- 
ployed, described as follows: 

1. Stirring, a circular motion made with a spoon through 
the ingredients, continued until all are blended. 

2. Beating, a turning of ingredients over and over 
rapidly by means of a spoon or an egg whip, to inclose air 
by continually bringing the under part to the surface, 
allowing the utensil used to be brought constantly in con- 



FOOD AND COOKERY 47 

tact with the bottom of the dish, and up through the whole 
mixture. 

3. Folding, a turning over and over of the ingredients; 
best accomplished by a vertical, downward motion of spoon 
or whip, bringing it up through the mixture, and each 
time allowing it to come in contact with the bottom of 
the dish, repeating until all is thoroughly blended. This is 
a slower movement than that of beating, and its object 
is so to mix ingredients that the air already introduced 
may not escape. 



ood and Cookery 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

Butter Substitutes. — The great increase in tuberculosis 
among cattle, as well as the continued rise in price of 
nearly all foodstuffs, has created a desire for some sub- 
stitute for dairy butter which would prove inexpensive, 
yet wholesome and appetizing. The following preparations 
are now used to a considerable extent, both for cooking and 
for table use, and can be prepared in a few minutes' 
time. In the following recipes, throughout the book, dairy 
butter may be substituted for vegetable butter if desired, 
the same amount being used that is given for vegetable 
butter. 

EMULSIFIED VEGETABLE OIL 

Secure a high grade of cottonseed or corn oil. Beat one 
egg slightly, and add the oil, a few drops to begin with, 
stirring constantly and increasing the oil gradually. Add 
two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, then more oil, until three 
cups of oil have been used, and the mixture is smooth and 
quite thick. Salt to taste, and put into a well covered 
crock, and use the same as dairy butter. 

VEGETABLE BUTTER 

Take three cupfuls of any good coconut product on the 
market, such as kokofat, kaola, or a good brand of hy- 
drogenated vegetable fat, such as crisco.* Add the juice 
of half a small lemon, salt to taste, and a few drops of 
vegetable butter color. Mix with spoon or fork, until the 
color of dairy butter. The juice from carrots, obtained 
by grating, and pressing out in a cloth, may be used in- 
stead of lemon juice and butter color if desired, and is 
rich in vitamine content. 



* The mention of a proprietary substance in a recipe must not be taken 
as a guarantee by the authors. We know very Utile about the manufac- 
ture of the above named products; but v:e have reason to believe they are 
wholesome, and contain no animal fat. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 

(48) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 49 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

Experiments made by the Bureau of Animal Industry, 
(Reference— M-2. 212. 9), United States Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, have shown that the 
tubercle bacilli and the bacilli of typhoid were killed when 
milk in which either of the above organisms had been 
placed experimentally was kept at a temperature of 140 
degrees F. (60 degrees C.) for twenty minutes; also, that 
heating milk to 185 degrees F. in the so-called "flash" 
Pasteurizing apparatus, and then cooling it, serves to de- 
stroy any tubercle bacilli that may be present. 

Method. — Place a rack or a piece of thick wire netting 
in the bottom of a pail or a large saucepan. Arrange the 
bottles of milk on the rack. Wipe the mouths and caps of 
the bottles with a wet cloth, but do not remove the caps. 
Make an opening in the cap of one of them, large enough 
to insert a thermometer, which must be previously steri- 
lized. Surround the bottles with cold water until the water 
reaches nearly to the top of the bottles. Place over the 
fire, and bring quickly to the temperature of 150 degrees 
F., as indicated by the thermometer within the bottle. Re- 
move from the saucepan, cover with a cloth, and let stand 
on the table for twenty minutes, after which cool gradually 
by setting the bottles into warm water, then cooler, and 
lastly cold water. Set on ice if it is available, and do not 
remove the caps until the milk is needed. 

BUTTERMILK 

The therapeutic value of buttermilk is well known to 
the medical profession. 

People who suffer of such diseases as acute diarrhea, 
gastritis, and intestinal diseases, during the hot season, 
often find the use of sour milk the best means of combat- 
ing the trouble. The claim put forth is that many of the 

fUSE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INCREMENTS.) 



50 FOOD AMD COOKERY 

putrefactive bacteria of the large intestine are gradually 
replaced by the harmless lactic acid germs. 

In making buttermilk with acid-forming ferments, first 
destroy the other germs that are always found in milk. 
This is accomplished by heating the milk before starting 
to make the lactosa. Lactone tablets contain the active 
ferment in a latent form. Thus a number of hours is 
required for them to develop actively, and this is accom- 
plished by keeping the milk at about 85 degrees Fahren- 
heit. The fireless is a good place to set the milk in which 
the lactic germs are to develop. 

Starter. — Bring one pint of milk to the boiling point, 
then set the dish into a pan of cold water to cool. When 
lukewarm, add one half lactone tablet, dissolved in a little 
water. Mix well, cover tightly, and set in a warm room 
or in a fireless until coagulated, which will require from 
eight to twelve hours or more, according to the tempera- 
ture of the room in which it is kept. As soon as the milk 
has thickened, set it in the refrigerator, if available; and 
in twenty-four hours, you have your starter. It is of no 
account unless it has thickened. This starter will keep for 
days, but it is not good to drink, and there is no need of 
keeping it after the first lactosa is made. 

Lactosa. — Bring one quart of milk to the boiling point, 
then cool by setting in cold water. When lukewarm, add 
one tablespoonful of the starter, and mix well. Cover, 
and set in a warm room or in a fireless until it coagulates, 
which should take from four to twelve hours, according 
to the temperature of the room in which it is kept. As 
soon as it is thick, set into the refrigerator, or in a cool 
place; and when cold, it is ready to drink. Beat smooth 
with an egg whip before serving. This should keep sweet 
for two or three days. The next time it is made, use this 
lactosa for a starter, one tablespoonful to a quart of milk. 
If the milk tastes too acid, or if it is covered with a thin 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 51 

whey, use less of the starter. As the milk grows older 
and more acid, one quart can be made with one teaspoonful 
of lactosa instead of a tablespoonful. 

COTTAGE CHEESE NO. 1 

Set a dish containing lactosa into a pan of hot water, 
cover, and heat until the milk forms into a curd. Then 
set on a table and let cool. Pour into cheesecloth, and 
hang up to drain. Rub smooth, and season with Pasteur- 
ized cream, lactosa, or canned milk, and a little salt, and 
serve. 

COTTAGE CHEESE NO. 2 

Pour boiling water into clabbered milk until whey forms. 
Let stand fifteen minutes, then strain as usual. 

HOMEMADE NUTTOSE 

1 cup tomato pulp % cup warm water % cup flour 

% cup cornstarch 1 *4 tea spoonfuls salt 

4 tablespoonfuls nut butter X A teaspoonful each of sage and marjoram 

Add the savory and the salt to the nut butter, and thin 
with the water, adding a little at a time until you have a 
smooth cream. Wet the flour and the starch with the to- 
mato, adding it gradually, so as to avoid lumping. Mix, 
and put through strainer into an oiled double boiler, and 
cook from two to three hours. One half of the flour used 
may be Graham if desired. 

NUT AND FRUIT BARS 

1 V2 cups dried figs or seeded raisins, or both % cup ground walnuts 

% cup gluten meal or cracker crumbs 

Wash the figs, place on a baking sheet, and put into the 
oven until hot through. Then remove. Grind the nuts 
through the mill first, then the fruit. Mix with the cereal, 
and grind all together twice. Then roll out V2 inch thick, 
and cut into small squares. 

(USE level measurements for all ingrements.) 



52 FOOD AND COOKERY 

HOMEMADE CEREAL. COFFEE 

% cup corn meal 2 cups bran V 3 cup molasses 

V2 cup boiling water 

Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl. Add the hot water 
to the molasses, and mix well. Pour the wetting on the 
grain, rub between the hands, and mix thoroughly. Put 
into a baking pan, and bake in a good oven until well 
burned, stirring often, so that the color may be uniform 
and almost black. Remove from the oven, and use the 
same as ordinary coffee. 

FRUIT COFFEE 

Take dried figs, wash and cut into pieces. Lay on a pie 
tin, and bake until black and crisp. Break up, add boiling 
water, let simmer for a few moments, and serve the same 
as cereal coffee. 

GRANO CEREAL, 

2 cups pastry flour % cup rolled oats *4 cup corn meal 

Large V2 cup water % teaspoonful salt 

Mix all the dry ingredients. Add the water slowly, stir- 
ring constantly through the flour, so as to avoid getting 
any particles of flour too wet, and mix to a stiff dough. 
Work on the board for a few moments. Then roll out 
V\ inch thick, cut into strips, lay in a baking pan, 
prick with a fork, and bake to a light brown color. When 
cold, grind through a food chopper, using a coarse knife. 

NOODLES 

1 egg 1 tablespoonful water or milk About 1 Vi cups pastry flour 

A few grains of salt 

Beat the egg slightly with a fork. Add the water and 
the salt. Mix in flour sufficient to make a very stiff dough. 
Knead well, divide into two pieces, and roll out to the 
thickness of paper, having the board well floured. Let dry 
for a few minutes. Then cut into strips 1% inches wide, 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 53 

pile these in tiers, and cut crosswise into fine shreds with 
a sharp knife. These will keep well if dried after being 
shredded. 

PARCHED CORN 

Select a fine grade of ripe sweet corn. Shell, and- lay 
in a baking pan in shallow layers, put into the oven, and 
brown very lightly, stirring often. While it is yet hot, 
after removing from the oven, add a little vegetable butter 
and a sprinkle of salt. Mix well, and serve. 

CREAM ROAST FLOUR 

Sift flour into a baking pan, about two inches deep. 
Put into a moderate oven, and stir often -until lightly 
toasted, but not browned at all. Sift again, and keep for 
use as needed. 

BROWN FLOUR 

Sift flour into a baking pan, put into a good oven, and 
cook to a nice brown, stirring often, so that it may be 
uniform in color and not scorched. Sift again into a crock, 
and keep for future use. 

BREAD CROUTONS 

Trim the outer crust from stale bread. Cut into V2- 
inch cubes. Bake in an oiled baking pan, stirring often, 
until a light brown all the way through. For soup 
croutons, cut the bread into ^-inch cubes, and bake the 
same as above. 

SOUP ROYALE 

Separate 1 egg. Add 1 teaspoonful milk to the white, 
and 2 teaspoonfuls milk to the yolk. Add a pinch of salt, 
and beat lightly with fork, to mix. Oil two timbale molds, 
and have the bottom of the molds lined with paper. Pour 
the egg yolk and the white into the separate molds, and 
poach in a pan of water until just "set." When cold, slice 
and cut into any desired shape for soup garniture. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



BREAD 

Bread is the most important article of diet, and deserves 
more attention than it receives. Considering the conven- 
iences that exist everywhere, and the widespread knowl- 
edge of bread making, it seems unnecessary and wrong 
to find poor bread on the table. "Homemade bread requires 
care and attention ; and then you have the real staff of life." 

Breads are divided into two classes: 1. Unfermented — 
made light by the introduction of air into the dough or 
batter; 2. Fermented — made light by a ferment, yeast be- 
ing usually employed. 

Space will not permit us at this time to enter into an 
extended discussion of the effects following the use of so- 
dium bicarbonate (soda) and baking powders in bread 
making. However, a few quotations from authoritative 
sources may be of interest. 

Harvey W. Wiley, food expert and chemist, in his book 
"Foods and Their Adulteration," under the caption "Harm- 
fulness of Baking Powder Residues," page 253, has the 
following to say: 

"The question of harmfulness of the residues left by 
the various forms of baking powder is one which has 
been of much interest to the hygienist and physician. It 
is not claimed in any case that the residues are beneficial. 
The principal question which has been discussed is, which 
of them is the least harmful. This is a question which it 
is not proper to enter into in this manual. It might, how- 
ever, not be out of place to say that the use of chemical 
reagents for leavening bread is not so advisable as the 
ordinary fermentation." 

"It would be better, evidently, if all people used more 
yeast breads and less baking powder rolls. At the same 
time, the utility and convenience of baking powder cannot 
be denied, and this is a factor which must be taken into 

(54) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 55 

consideration in the general discussion and final resolution 
of the question," 

Dr. I. P. Pavlov, professor in the Imperial Military 
Academy of Medicine, St. Petersburg, writes as follows: 
"Concerning the effects of a continued addition of sodium 
bicarbonate to the food, — such an addition for a length 
of time markedly depresses the secretory activity of the 
pancreas, and brings it down to an unusually low level." 
"To sodium bicarbonate (soda), an inhibitory influence 
must be ascribed."— "The Work of the Digestive Glands," 
pages 113, 145. 

In regard to the destructive action of soda on vitamines 
in food, the Monthly Bulletin, Indiana State Board of 
Health, of June, 1916, contains the following: "Another 
disease called pellagra, which frequently ends in insanity 
and death, is also produced by eating devitamined foods. 
It is found that soda kills vitamines; therefore we must 
not put soda into our foods. . . . Biscuits made light with 
bicarbonate of soda (baking soda), and which always have 
a 'soda taste,' are very unwholesome. . . . Cooks should 
not use bicarbonate of soda in cooking dried beans, dried 
corn, dried peas, and the like, even if it does hasten the 
process." 

From the book "Ministry of Healing," pages 300, 301, 
we read : "The use of soda or baking powder in bread mak- 
ing is harmful and unnecessary. Soda causes inflammation 
of the stomach, and often poisons the entire system. Many 
housewives think that they cannot make good bread with- 
out soda, but this is an error. If they would take the time 
to learn better methods, their bread would be more whole- 
some, and to a natural taste, it would be more palatable." 

Air may be incorporated into a batter by beating. The 
use of eggs will aid in the process, because the white of 
egg, on account of its viscous nature, readily catches air 
and helps convey it into the batter. The following recipe 
for wheat puffs will help to illustrate these principles : 



56 FOOD AND COOKERY 

UNFERMENTED BATTER BREADS 

WHEAT PUFFS 

l a /4 cups sifted pastry flour % cup whole wheat flour 

M> teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful vegetable fat 1 cup milk 

1 egg separated 

Make a batter of the flour, milk, salt, oil, and yolk of 
egg, and stir smooth. Beat the white stiff, and pour the 
batter gradually into the beaten white, and mix, using the 
folding motion. Pour by large spoonfuls into hot, well oiled 
iron gem pans, and bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. 

CURRANT PUFFS 

Use the above recipe, and as soon as the irons are filled 
with batter, sprinkle a few dried currants into each mold, 
and bake the same as the above recipe. 

CORN MEAL PUFFS 

1 cup pastry flour % cup corn meal (toasted lightly in the oven) 

V2 teaspoonful salt 2 teaspoonfuls vegetable fat 

1 scant cup milk 1 egg separated 

Make a batter of the flour, corn meal, milk, oil, salt, and 
yolk of egg, and stir smooth. Beat the white stiff, and 
gradually fold the batter into the beaten white, and bake 
the same as wheat puffs. 

AERATED WHEAT GE3IS 

1 cup whole wheat flour V 2 cup white bread flour y 2 teaspoonful salt 
1 tablespoonful melted vegetable butter 1*4 cups milk 

Make a batter of the flour, salt, fat, and cold milk, and 
beat for a couple of minutes. The milk should be cold, and 
the irons heated in a good oven. Fill each mold with a 
large spoonful .of the batter, and bake the same as wheat 
puffs. This kind of bread is best if mixed the night before, 
and set in a cold place overnight. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY . 57 

AERATED CORN MEAL GEMS 

V2 cup white bread flour 1 cup corn meal (lightly toasted in the ovon) 

V2 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful melted vegetable butter 

1 a /4 cups milk 

Make a batter at night, of the flour, corn meal, fat, salt, 
and milk. Beat for a few minutes, and let stand in a cold 
place overnight. In the morning, pour into hot, well oiled 
iron gem pans, and bake the same as wheat gems. 

CORN BREAD 

1% cups corn meal 2 tablespoonfuls whole wheat flour 

2V 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

114 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 % cups boiling water 2 eggs separated 

Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl,, add the butter, 
pour on the boiling water in a slow stream, stirring con- 
tinuously. Add two or three tablespoonfuls cold water if 
needed, to make a medium smooth batter. Beat the whites 
stiff. Beat the yolks, and fold them into the beaten whites. 
Into this, work the corn mixture, and mix, using the fold- 
ing motion. Pour into a shallow oiled baking pan, and 
bake in a quick oven. Success in making this bread will 
depend largely on following the directions in having the 
water boiling hot, and then pouring it over the meal in a 
slow stream, as too rapid pouring will dissolve the starch 
granules, and consequently it will absorb too much water, 
and as a result, it cannot be made light in baking. 

CORN DODGERS 

1 cup corn meal (preferably toasted lightly in the oven) 

W2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat V2 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful brown sugar 1 V2 cups boiling water 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the fat, and pour on 
the boiling water all at once and stir smooth. A few table- 
spoonfuls of water may be added if needed, to make the 
batter of a consistency barely to drop from a spoon, but 
not run. Drop from the side of a large spoon, into an 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



58 FOOD AND COOKERY 

oiled baking pan, in oblong shapes, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

CORN CAKE 

Take the above corn mixture, and spread in an oiled 
baking pan % inch deep, and bake in a hot oven. 

JOHNNYCAKE 

1 cup corn meal 2 tablespoonfuls whole wheat flour 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1V 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 

Vs teaspoonful salt 1 cup boiling milk 1 egg separated 

Put the corn meal and the flour into the oven until lightly 
toasted. Mix all the dry ingredients. Add the fat and 
pour on the boiling milk all at once, and stir. Two or three 
tablespoonfuls more of cold milk may be added if needed 
to make smooth, but the mixture must not be soft. Beat 
the white stiff. Beat the yoik, and fold the yolk into the 
beaten white. Add the corn mixture, and mix, using the 
folding motion. Drop from the side of a spoon into an 
oiled pan, in oblong shapes, leaving space between, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

HOT CAKES 

% cup coarse zwieback crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Mr teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful brown sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup warm milk 

Heat the milk to about 115 degrees. Mix all the dry 
ingredients well, pour the milk over them, and let stand 
ten minutes. Separate the eggs. Beat the yolks, and 
stir them into the crumb mixture. Beat the whites stiff, 
fold the crumb mixture into the beaten whites, and bake 
on an oiled soapstone griddle. 

UNFERMENTED DOUGH BREADS 

The earliest forms of bread were "unleavened breads." 
This term has been applied to hard breads, such as the 
Passover cakes of the Israelites, and other breads in the 

(USE level measurements foe all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 59 

form of thin cakes, sticks, etc. These hard breads are 
doubtless the most wholesome, because they encourage 
thorough mastication; and being free from any chemical 
or ferment, they are easily digested in the stomach. The 
success in making these breads will depend largely upon 
mixing the dough so as not to get any of the flour too wet. 
If the dough is soft, it will result in making the bread 
hard when baked. On the other hand, if no more water 
is used than is required for holding the dough together, 
the bread will be porous, and will be found palatable. 

CREAM ROLLS 

1% cups sifted pastry flour % cup whole wheat flour 

V2 teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful sugar % cup rich cream 

"Vs cup cold water 

Add the water to the cream, and mix well. Mix all the 
dry ingredients in a bowl, into which pour the wetting in 
a very slow stream, stirring constantly, and removing 
portions as they stick together, to avoid getting any of the 
flour too wet. Mix all into a stiff dough, and roll out about 
% inch in thickness. Then cut into long strips about 
% inch in width. Roll each strip on the board, and cut 
crosswise into 3-inch lengths. Lay in a baking pan, leav- 
ing a little space between, and bake to a light brown color. 

WHEAT STICKS 

1 cup sifted pastry flour Y2 cup whole wheat flour 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar V 2 teaspoonful salt Scant V 3 cup cold water 

IVz tablespoonfuls vegetable oil 

Put the flour, sugar, and salt into a bowl. Add the oil. 
Rub the flour between the hands to distribute the oil evenly. 
Then add the water, and mix as for cream rolls. Knead 
on a board for a few moments, and roll out to % inch 
in thickness. Cut with a dull knife into long strips about 
Vs inch wide. Then cut crosswise into sticks about 3 
inches in length. Lay in a baking pan, leaving a little 
space between, and bake to a light brown color. 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



60 FOOD AND COOKERY 

ENTIRE WHEAT STICKS 

1% cups entire wheat flour V2 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat V2 cup cold water 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the melted fat, and rub 
between the hands to distribute the oil evenly. Add the 
water slowly, and mix the same as for wheat sticks, ex- 
cept that this dough may be a little softer, because of the 
entire wheat used. 

WALNUT STICKS 

Add Y3 cup chopped walnuts to the flour of either of the 
above recipes for sticks, and bake the same as wheat sticks. 

FRUIT CRISPS 

1 V2 cups pastry flour % cup whole wheat flour V2 teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 2% tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 

Scant V2 cup cold water Sultana raisins or figs 

Wash the raisins, and lift them out of the water. Put 
them on the fire with barely enough moisture to heat them 
through. As soon as the water is evaporated, remove 
from the fire, and grind through a coarse food mill. Mix 
all the dry ingredients. Add the oil, and rub the flour 
between the hands to distribute the oil evenly. Add the 
water slowly, only sufficient to mix into a stiff dough, fol- 
lowing directions for mixing cream rolls. Work the dough 
together, and roll out into a long strip, about the thickness 
of pie crust. Spread the fruit over half of the dough. 
Then fold the remaining half over the fruit, and roll 
lightly with a rolling-pin to press the dough together. Cut 
into squares, prick with a fork, lay in a baking pan, and 
bake on the top grate of a hot oven, to a very light brown. 
Care must be used not to overcook this bread, as the fruit 
sugar burns very quickly. Remove from the oven before 
the fruit has had time to cook too much. 

DATE ROLLS 

Make pastry "from the above recipe. Roll out to the 
thickness of pie crust, cut into strips 2% inches wide, 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 61 

moisten the back edge of the strip of pastry, place stoned 
dates end to end in the middle of the strip, and fold up the 
front edge of the pastry. Then roll over until the edges 
meet, and cut into 3-inch lengths. Bake in a moderate 
oven until light brown. 

CORJY MEAL CRISPS 

1 cup corn meal 1 cup pastry flour V 2 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 

V2 cup water 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the oil, and rub between 
the hands. Add the water, and mix to dough. Roll out 
% inch thick, and cut with a biscuit cutter. Prick with a 
fork, and bake to a light brown. 

RYE WAFERS 

1 cup rye flour 1 cup pastry flour 2 V 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar V2 teaspoonful salt 

Scant V2 cup water, or just enough water to hold the flour 

together to stiff dough 

Mix all the dry ingredients, add the oil, and rub the flour 
between the hands to distribute the oil through the flour. 
Add the water slowly, and mix the same as for wheat 
sticks. Roll out i/4 inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter, 
prick with a fork, and bake to a light brown color. 

RYE STICKS 

Take the above dough, and roll out V2 inch thick. Cut 
into long t strips about % inch wide, then again crosswise 
into 3-inch lengths. Lay in a baking pan, leaving a little 
space between, and bake to a light brown color. 

BUCKWHEAT STICKS 

1 cup buckwheat flour 1 cup pastry flour V2 teaspoonful salt 

2V 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 

Scant V2 cup water 

Mix and bake the same as for rye sticks. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INCREMENTS.) 



62 



FOOD AND COOKERY 



BUCKWHEAT WAFFRS 

Roll out the above dough to V* inch thick, cut with a 
biscuit cutter, prick with a fork, and bake to a light brown 
color. 

FERMENTED BREADS 

Weight for weight, bread must be considered one of the 
most nutritious of foods. The fact that more than three 
fifths of it consists of solid nutriment, and less than two 
fifths of water, gives it a special place in the list of foods ; 
and there are no animal foods, and but few cooked vege- 
table foods, that can be compared with it. 

In the study of the chemical composition of bread, we 
find that two thirds of the volume of a good loaf of bread 
is made up of gas; and of the solid part, less than forty 
per cent is water. Of the chemical constituents necessary 



f Water 38.4 '/, 




^ Carbohydrates 
I 49.7 V 


GAS § 


Proteid 9.7 




V f»t .9 1 M In. Mat 1.3 





for proper nutrition, bread yields a large proportion of 
carbohydrates, a liberal amount of protein and mineral 
matter, and a small amount of fat, making it one of the 
most nutritious and well balanced articles of diet. 

"The common use of superfine white flour in bread 
making is neither healthful nor economical." While the 
white-flour products have a high total nutritive value, 
they are really an impoverished food; for in rejecting the 
germ and the bran, the miller discards some of the most 



FOOD AND COOKERY 63 

useful constituents of wheat. With the germ, proteid and 
fat are lost; and when the outer layers of the wheat 
which are impregnated with mineral matter, are separated 
from the kernel, the bread is left almost void of these sub- 
stances, which are so indispensable to health. 

To the natural taste, there is something lacking, some- 
thing not satisfying, in white bread, but which is found 
in that made from the whole grain. This leaves a craving 
which many attempt to satisfy with rich pastries, meat 
spices, and condiments. Fine-flour bread is also a frequent 
cause of constipation and other unhealthy conditions. 

In order to make good bread, it is necessary to have 
good flour. The strength of a flour is determined by the 
quantity of gluten it contains. Gluten is the chief pro- 
teid of wheat. Its elastic qualities, when mixed with 
water, and acted upon by yeast, allow the gas formed to 
expand without danger of escape. A flour in which the 
gluten is strong and tenacious will resist a much stronger 
pressure of gas than one with scant or weak gluten. Simi- 
larly, the amount of water that should be used will vary 
with the strength of the flour; for the stronger the gluten 
in the flour, the more liquid it will absorb; and the softer 
the wheat, the less water will be needed. 

The best bread flour is in reality the cheapest, for it 
makes more and better bread than the same quantity of 
soft wheat flour. The best flour is of a cream white color; 
and when a handful is taken and squeezed, it will not 
retain the imprint of the fingers, but will fall like dry 
sand. Ordinary pastry or soft wheat flour, when handled 
in this way, will retain its shape in the hand. 

PRINCIPLES OF BREAD MAKING 

Fermented bread is usually made by mixing to a dough, 
flour, water, salt, and yeast, a small amount of sugar being 
added to hasten fermentation. The dough is then kneaded 

5 — Food and Cookery 



64 FOOD AND COOKERY 

until it is elastic to the touch and does not stick to the 
board, the object being to incorporate air and to distribute 
the yeast uniformly. It is then covered, and allowed to 
rise until it has doubled its bulk and does not respond to 
the touch, or when tapped sharply, gradually but stub- 
bornly begins to sink. At this stage, the dough is proofed 
(ripe), and is ready to be worked down, and will require 
all the way from two to three and a half hours, according 
to the grade or consistency of the flour used, and to the 
temperature of the room in which it is set, to rise. This 
process is best accomplished at a temperature ranging 
from 75 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit. The bread is then 
worked down well, turned over in the bowl, and allowed to 
rise again until about half again its former bulk. It is 
then turned out on a lightly floured board, and kneaded a 
little to break the air bubbles, and to distribute evenly the 
gas formed. It is then molded into loaves and put into 
pans for baking. 

Bread should never be allowed to rise until it begins to 
fall of itself. At this stage, it has risen too much, and 
borders on sourness. There are three stages of fermenta- 
tion; namely, alcoholic, acetous, and putrefactive. Bread 
should be baked during the alcoholic stage'. If fermenta- 
tion is allowed to go on after the yeast has done its work, 
bacterial action begins which results in sour bread. 

It is very important to know when the bread is suffi- 
ciently light after it has been placed in the pans. It should 
never be allowed to rise to its limit before it is put into 
the oven, but should continue to rise for the first ten min- 
utes after it has been put into the oven. It is better if 
baked a little too soon than if allowed to rise too much. 
If ?t is allowed to rise too much, it will be coarse grained 
and tasteless. If the bread gets too light in the pans, it 
may be molded over again and allowed to rise as before. 

To test the lightness of the dough in the pans, press the 
loaf gently. If it responds promptly to the touch, it may 



FOOD AND COOKERY 65 

be allowed to rise more. If it responds weakly, it should 
be put into the oven immediately. 

Bread made from whole wheat or Graham flour must 
not be allowed to go quite so far in the process of fermenta- 
tion as white bread, and should be watched closely during 
the successive stages of development, as it rises in less 
time than white bread. The coarse consistency of the 
whole grain allows the gas to escape more readily from 
the dough than from that made of a strong white flour. 

Entire whole wheat bre*ad is readily made from hard 
wheat flour — that is, from wheat which is grown where 
the summers are short and not too hot — with no white 
flour. The dough must be soft, and is a little more diffi- 
cult to handle; but all the mineral substances and vita- 
mines contained in wheat, and which are so essential to 
our well-being, are then retained in the bread, adding much 
to its flavor and wholesomeness. 

The Western wheat, also that grown farther south, is 
a soft wheat, and does not of itself make good bread, but 
may be combined with a strong gluten flour. Very often 
Graham or whole wheat flour is made from this kind of 
wheat, and is then used in bread making in the proportion 
of about one part Graham or whole wheat to two parts 
strong white bread flour. 

Bread is also made by setting a sponge at the beginning, 
making a batter of the water, yeast, and part of the flour, 
and letting it rise until the batter is charged with the 
yeast, then adding any other ingredients, as fruit and 
shortening for fruit bread, shortening for buns, or cracked 
grain for coarse bread, and working all into a dough. 
Ordinary white bread, whole wheat, and Graham are some- 
times made by the same process. A sponge is sufficiently 
light when it appears frothy and is full of bubbles. The 
time required will vary with the quantity and quality of 
yeast used, and the temperature of the room in which it 
is set to rise. 



66 FOOD AND COOKERY 

As a general rule, with the best quality of bread flour, 
three measures of flour to one of water are required to 
make a dough of the proper consistency. For whole wheat 
or Graham bread, less flour is used to the same amount 
of liquid. The whole wheat and Graham flours used in the 
following recipes are made from Kansas hard wheat. 

BAKING 

Bread should be baked in a quick oven to begin with. 
The oven should not be so hot as to burn the outside of 
the loaf before the inside is cooked, but should be of such 
a temperature that the bread may rise for the first ten 
minutes, and then have sufficient crust to hold it up, when 
the fire should be closed up to hold a steady heat until the 
bread is done. For the small loaves, forty to forty-five 
minutes is generally sufficient; for the larger ones or those 
of ordinary size, one hour to an hour and a quarter. A 
well baked loaf may be lifted from the pan and placed 
upon the palm of the hand without burning it. This should 
always be the case when bread is well baked and the mois- 
ture evaporated. When done, remove from the pans and 
lay on the side on a wire rack to cool. If brushed over 
the top with warm water just after it is taken out of the 
oven, the crust of the bread will keep softer, and will have 
a nice color. 

YEASTS 

The most convenient yeast is that sold as compressed 
yeast. It should be used only when fresh. Its freshness 
may be determined by its light color and absence of dark 
streaks. When compressed yeast is not obtainable, very 
good bread is made from dried yeast, as in the following 
recipe. 

LIQUID YEAST 

1 cake dried yeast 2 cups potato water % cup sugar 

Drain the water from mashed potatoes at noon; and 
when it is cooled to about 100 degrees, add the sugar, and 
(USE level measurements for all ingrements.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 07 

the yeast cake broken up. Put into a glass jar, and set in 
a warm place until evening. The liquid should measure 
two cups. 

MOTHER'S BREAD 

Night Sponge. — Add 3 cups of water to the above liquid 
yeast, having the liquid about the temperature of the room 
in which the bread is set to rise. Beat in 7 cups white 
bread flour to smooth batter. Cover, and if the weather 
is cold, wrap in cloth until the morning. 

Dough. — In the morning, add 3 tablespoonfuls salt, 3 
tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls melted vegetable 
fat, and beat into the sponge. Add 1 cup more water, 
about 120 degrees F., pouring it in gradually, and stirring 
as it is poured in. This takes the chill off the sponge and 
hastens the rising of the bread. Add 8 cups entire whole 
wheat flour, and about 2% cups more of white flour, or 
enough to make a medium dough. Mix into a dough with 
a large spoon, and turn out on a lightly floured board. 
Rub off all particles of dough sticking to the sides and 
bottom of the dish, and knead until it is elastic to the 
touch, and does not stick to the board, using as little addi- 
tional flour as possible to keep the dough from sticking 
to the board. If the dough is kept in motion continuously, 
very little additional flour will be needed, and the knead- 
ing will require about eight minutes. 

Oil the bowl, and drop in the bread. Turn the dough 
over in the bowl so that the surface will be oiled, to keep 
a crust from drying on. Cover, and set in a warm room 
to rise until it doubles its bulk, and when tapped sharply, 
it gradually but stubbornly begins to sink. This will re- 
quire from one and one half to two hours or more, ac- 
cording to the temperature of the room and of the in- 
gredients. At this point, the dough is worked down well, 
turned over in the bowl, and let rise again until scarcely 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



68 FOOD AND COOKERY 

half again its original bulk. It is then turned out on a 
lightly floured board, worked together well, molded into 
loaves, and put into pans for baking. In molding bread 
into loaves, it is very essential that each loaf be kneaded 
well. If the bread is put into the pans in soft loaves — that 
is, soft because they were not worked enough — the bread 
will rise flat on the top instead of rounded, and is likely 
to fall when put into the oven. Each loaf should be 
kneaded into a hard ball, then flattened down, and rolled 
up into a hard roll. Put into oiled pans, and brush over 
the top of each loaf with an oiled brush. Follow the in- 
struction in the preceding chapter for testing the lightness 
of the dough in the pans, temperature of oven, and length 
of time for baking. 

BRAN BISCUIT 

Take % of the bulk of the above dough after it has 
risen en masse the first time and been worked down. Add 
% cup warm molasses, and % cup scalded and warm rich 
cream (or % cup canned milk, and x k cup melted vege- 
table butter), and work into the dough until absorbed. 
Add 1V 2 cups bran, lightly toasted in the oven, and mix. 
Let rest until it begins to rise again — about 20 minutes. 
Then work together, turn out on floured board, and roll 
out about % inch thick with rolling-pin. Cut with biscuit 
cutter, and lay in an oiled baking pan. Let rise until 
about half again its original bulk, then bake in a quick 
oven. 

ENTIRE WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

3 cups warm water V2 cake compressed yeast 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 1 tablespoonful salt 

7 cups entire whole wheat flour, or enough to make a medium soft dough 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoonfuls water, add the 
liquid, salt, sugar, and fat, and mix in the flour to soft 
dough. Turn out on a floured board, and knead until 

(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY (>9 

elastic to the touch. Then put into an oiled bowl, cover, 
and set in a warm room to rise until when tapped sharply,* 
it begins to sink — about 2 hours or more. Then work to- 
gether, turn over in the bowl, and let rest until it begins 
to rise again, which will take about 20 minutes. Then 
mold into loaves, and put into pans for baking. Follow 
directions for proofing, molding, and baking, as given for 
''mother's bread." 

WHEAT BREAD 

3 cups whole wheat or Graham flour 2V 2 cups white bread flour 

2 cups water Vz cake compressed yeast 1 tablespoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 tablespoonful vegetable fat 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoonfuls water. Add the 
liquid, salt, sugar, and vegetable fat. Add the flours, and 
mix into a dough, reserving a handful of flour for the 
board. Turn out on the board, and knead until elastic to 
the touch. Then put into an oiled bowl, cover, and let 
rise until when tapped sharply, it begins to sink — about 
3 hours or more. Then work down, turn over in the bowl, 
and let rest until it begins to rise again — about 30 minutes. 
Then work together, turn out on board, mold into loaves, 
and put into pans for baking. Follow directions for mold- 
ing, proofing, and baking as given for "mother's bread." 

RAISED CORN BREAD 

3 cups water Vz cake compressed yeast 4 cups best bread flour 

2 cups corn meal 1 tablespoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls melted vegetable fat 

Sift the flour into a large bowl, leaving a space at one 
side of the flour for the sponge. Dissolve the yeast in 2 
teaspoonfuls water, add 1 cup warm water, and pour on 
the side of the flour. Stir enough flour into this liquid 
to make a thin, smooth batter. Cover, and set in a warm 
place until light — about 1 hour. In order to incorporate 
enough moisture into the bread, so that it will not dry out 
after baking, put the corn meal into a small bowl, and 
pour on gradually, in a slow stream, 2 cups boiling water, 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



70 FOOD AND COOKERY 

stirring as it is being poured in, and let stand half an 
hour. When the sponge is sufficiently light, add the salt, 
sugar, and vegetable fat, and mix well. Add the scalded 
and warm corn meal, and mix all into a soft dough. Turn 
out on a floured board, and knead until elastic to the touch. 
Then return to an oiled bowl, cover, let rise, and finish 
the same as for "mother's bread." 

RYE BREAD 

2 cups warm water % cake compressed yeast 

l 1 /^ tablespoonfuls melted vegetable fat 1 tablespoonful brown sugar 

l 1 /^ tablespoonfuls salt 4 cups white bread flour 3 cups rye flour 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoonfuls water, add the liquid, 
and beat into this 3 cups white bread flour to smooth batter. 
Cover, and set in a warm room until light — about 2 hours. 
Add the salt, sugar, and oil, and beat into the sponge. 
Mix in the rye flour, and the remaining cup of white flour, 
reserving a handful of flour for the board, and mix to a 
dough. Turn out on the board, and knead until elastic to 
the touch. Then return to oiled bowl, cover, and let rise 
until when tapped sharply, it begins to sink. Work down 
well, turn over in the bowl, and let rest until half again 
its original bulk. Turn the dough out on the board, and 
roll out six buns, and lay in an oiled pie tin, to rise for 
"rye biscuit." 

Divide the remaining dough into two pieces, and roll out 
into the shape of ordinary rye bread loaves. Lay in an 
oiled baking pan, leaving space between. Brush over the 
surface of each loaf with oiled brush, cut three gashes 
across each loaf with a sharp knife, and let rise until light. 
Then bake in a quick oven. 

FRTJIT BREAD 

2% cups warm water V2 cake compressed yeast X A cup vegetable fat 

% cup sugar 1 tablespoonful salt IVz cups- sultana raisins 
6 cups entire whole wheat flour, or enough to make a medium soft dough 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoonfuls water, add the liquid, 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 71 

and beat into this 3 cups entire wheat flour to smooth 
batter. Cover, and set in a warm room until light — about 
l x /2 hours. Add the vegetable fat, sugar, and salt, and 
beat into the sponge. Have the raisins soaked overnight, 
and warmed. Mix all the ingredients to a medium soft 
dough, turn out on a lightly floured board, and knead until 
elastic to the touch. Then put into an oiled bowl, cover, 
and set in a warm room to rise until when tapped sharply, 
it begins to sink. Then work down, and let rest until it 
begins to rise again — about 15 minutes. Then mold into 
loaves, and put into pans for baking. Follow directions 
for proofing, molding, and baking as given in recipe for 
"mother's bread." 

STE1MED BROWN BREAD 

1 cup scalded milk V 2 cake compressed yeast 1 cup Graham flour 

% cup corn meal (lightly toasted in the oven) V 2 cup rye flour 

V2 cup bran 1 teaspoonful salt % cup warm molasses 

1 tablespoonful vegetable fat % cup sultana raisins 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoonfuls water, add the warm 
milk, and beat in the Graham flour to a smooth batter. 
Cover, and set in a warm room for 2 hours. Add the salt, 
warm molasses, and oil, and beat into the sponge. Have 
the raisins soaked overnight, and warmed. Mix all the 
ingredients with a heavy spoon until thoroughly mixed. 
Cover, and let rise until when tapped sharply, it begins to 
sink. Then work down well. Put at once into an oiled pail 
with tight-fitting cover, and steam for 2 hours. Turn out 
on an oiled pie tin, and bake in the oven for 15 minutes. 
. % cup of rye meal can be substituted for the rye flour and 
bran, when on hand. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 cup scalded and warm milk V 2 cake compressed yeast 

2Y2 cups bread flour 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable fat 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar V2 teaspoonful salt 

Dissolve the yeast in 2 teaspoonfuls water, add the warm 
milk, and beat in 1 cup white flour to smooth batter. Cover, 
(use level measurements for all increments.) 



n FOOD AND COOKERY 

and set in a warm room for 2 hours. Add the salt, sugar, 
and fat, and beat into the sponge. Add the balance of the 
flour, reserving a handful for the board, and mix to a soft 
dough. Turn out on a floured board, and knead gently 
until elastic, being careful that it does not stick to the 
board. Put into an oiled bowl, cover, and let rise until 
when tapped, it begins to sink. Then work down well, and 
let rest until half again its original bulk. Work together, 
and turn out on a floured board. Divide into l 1 /^ -ounce 
pieces, then divide each piece into two. Roll out into small, 
round buns, and lay on a well floured board. When they 
have risen to nearly half again their original bulk, make 
a crease through the center, with a small roller the size 
of a broom handle. Oil one half, fold the other half over, 
and press together. Lay in an oiled baking pan, let rise 
until very light, then bake in a quick oven. 

SHORTCAKE 

Use the same ingredients as in the preceding recipe, 
except add 1 egg, slightly beaten, to the sponge when it is 
Jight, and this will require V2 cup more of flour. Mix 
to dough, and raise the same as the preceding. Roll out 
to Mi inch thickness, and lay in an oiled baking pan. 
Brush over with oil, and sprinkle with flour, then with 
sugar. Press down with a spoon so the particles of flour 
get moistened on the top. Let rise until very light, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

GLUTEN BISCUIT 

4 cups bread flour 1% cups cold water 

Mix to a dough. Then break and pull apart until very 
elastic, and soak in water for % hour. Wash out the 
starch, changing the water, pouring the water off slowly, 
so as not to lose any of its gluten, until the water runs 
clear. Then let stand in cold water for from 5 to 6 hours 
(USE level measurements for all increments.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 73 

to ripen. Drain, cut into pieces about the size of a small 
egg, lay in an oiled tin, leaving plenty of space between, 
and bake until brown on the entire surface. 

DIABETIC BREAD (Strong in Gluten) 

Take the above "ripe" gluten, work in warm water to 
take off the chill, drain well, and put into a bowl. Dis- 
solve V2 cake compressed yeast in 1 tablespoonful water, 
add I tablespoonful flour, and make smooth. Work this 
into the gluten with y% teaspoonful salt. Then work in 
gradually 1 cup flour by pulling the gluten apart and 
dipping it into the flour, until all the flour is absorbed in 
the gluten. Then work in 2 tablespoonfuls melted vege- 
table fat in like manner. Put into an oiled bowl, cover, 
and set in a warm room to rise. When very light, work 
down, and let rest until it begins to rise again. Then mold 
into a loaf, and put into pan for baking. Let rise until 
light, and bake in a good oven! 

CUT ZWIEBACK 

Cut stale bread into slices about % of an inch thick, 
put into a shallow baking pan in single layers, and set in 
a slow oven until thoroughly dried. Then put into a 
moderate oven, and allow it to brown to a golden color 
through the entire thickness. 

PULLED ZWIEBACK 

Take fresh bread, break carefully, pulling into pieces 
instead of using pressure. The pieces should be about the 
size of a medium apple. Proceed to dry . and bake the 
same as for cut zwieback. 

(use level measurements for all increments.) 



SOUPS 

Soups may be divided into two classes: 

1. Broths, or thin soups, to which are added cooked 
grains, or vegetables cut in various shapes and sizes for 
garniture, and to give variety and flavor. While these thin 
soups are lacking in the nourishment to be found in those 
made of more solid foods, they are valuable for the stimu- 
lating effect they have on the gastric juice; and when 
taken at the beginning of the meal and in small quantities, 
they aid in the digestion of the more solid foods. 

2. Those which usually have as their basis cooked vege- 
tables, grains, or legumes, forced through a strainer, and 
thinned with the liquid in which they were cooked, or with 
milk or cream, or both. Like all other foods, soups require 
the action of the saliva for digestion, and when eaten slowly 
with some dry food, as sticks or croutons, are both ap- 
petizing and nourishing. 

VEGETABLE JULIENNE 

V2 medium sized potato X A cup carrot *4 cup turnip 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion 1 stalk celery 

V2 cup cauliflowerets, or new peas, green string beans, or any 

fresh vegetable in season 

V2 small tomato 1 teaspoonful vegetable butter 2 cups vegetable broth 

2 cups cold water Chopped parsley Salt to taste 

Cut all the vegetables into fine shreds, about %-inch 
lengths. Put all the vegetables except the parsley, tomato, 
and potato, into a saucepan, with the butter and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of water. Cover, and cook slowly over the fire, 
stirring often to keep the vegetables from scorching. Let 
simmer thus until the water is evaporated. Then add all 
the liquid, the potato and tomato, and salt to taste. Let 
boil gently until the vegetables are thoroughly done, add 
the chopped parsley, and serve. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 

(74) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 75 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

y± cup turnip cut into small dice % cup carrot % cup cabbage 

1 stalk celery 2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion V2 cup potato 

A small piece of sweet bell pepper 1% tablespoonfuls browned flour 

2 tablespoonfuls tomato IV2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

A pinch of sage or thyme 4 cups water or vegetable broth 

Salt to taste 

Put the coarse vegetables into a saucepan, together with 
the butter, flour, sage, and salt. Cover, and let simmer 
for a few minutes, stirring now and then. Add the cold 
liquid, potato, and tomato, and let cook until thoroughly 
done. Finish with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 

FARMERS' FAVORITE 

% cup rich sour cream % cup macaroni raw 1 small onion 

1 stalk celery X A cup finely diced carrot 1 cup diced potato 

Chopped parsley Salt 

Cook the cream down in a skillet, stirring constantly 
until the oil and the albumen separate and the albumen 
turns a light brown color. (The degree of browning de- 
termines the flavor of the soup.) Add the diced carrot, 
onion, and celery, and stir over the fire for a few minutes, 
but do not brown. Add three cups cold water, the diced 
potato, and salt, and let cook until the vegetables are 
thoroughly done. Drop the macaroni into three cups of 
boiling water, and cook until well done. Add the macaroni 
water to the vegetable soup. Then lay the macaroni on 
a board and cut into small rings. Drop into the soup, and 
boil up well. Add the chopped parsley, and serve. 

BEAN SOUP ARMY STYLE 

1 cup navy beans 7 cups water % cup diced carrot 

% cup diced onion 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

Chopped parsley Salt to taste 

Wash the beans thoroughly, lift them out of the water, 
put into a saucepan with the cold water, and bring to a 
boil. Let simmer gently until thoroughly done. Add salt 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



76 FOOD AND COOKERY 

while cooking. Put the diced carrot and onion into a 
saucepan, with the vegetable butter and V^ cup water, and 
let simmer until the water is absorbed, stirring often. 
Add 2 cups of broth from the beans, salt to taste, and let 
the vegetables simmer until well cooked. Add them to the 
bean soup, boil up well, add the chopped parsley, and serve. 

CREAM OF BARLEY 

Vz cup pearl barley (soaked in water overnight) 6 cups hot water 

1 onion 1 carrot 1 stalk celery V-> teaspoonful salt 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

Drain the barley, add the hot water, salt, whole onion, 
carrot, and celery, and cook until well done, and the liquid 
reduced to three cupfuls. Remove the onion and carrot 
with a silver fork. Then drain. Put % of the cooked 
grain into another vessel for garniture for the soup. Put 
the balance of the grain through a colander. Add the 
cooked barley, the milk, and the butter. Salt to taste, 
reheat, and serve. Cream may be used instead of the milk 
and butter. 

FAMILY POTATO SOUP 

2 cups sliced raw potato 4 cups cold water 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

1 teaspoonful chopped onion 1% tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

1 cup milk or thin cream Chopped parsley 

Put the water, potato, onion, and salt into a saucepan, 
and boil until the potato is well done and broken. Add the 
hot milk and the vegetable butter, and beat into the soup. 
Add the chopped parsley, and serve. 

LIMA BEAN SOUP 

1 cup Lima beans G cupfuls water 1 onion 

1 stalk celery Salt to taste 

Wash the beans, add the other ingredients, and let cook 
gently until extra well done. Remove the onion, and mash 
the beans through a colander, season with cream, or milk 
and vegetable butter, and serve with croutons. 

(use level measurements for all increments.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 77 

CREAM OF LETTUCE 

Wz cups sliced raw potato 3 cups cold water 

1 cup shredded lettuce (pressed down) 1 V 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

IVz tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 1 tablespoonful chopped onion 

2 cups hot milk 

Add the potato, onion, and salt to the water, and bring 
to a boil. When the potato is about half done, add the 
lettuce, and cook rapidly until the vegetable is well cooked. 
Mash through a colander. Add the butter to the hot milk ; 
mix well, and add to the soup. Put through a coarse 
strainer, salt to taste, and serve. If cream is used, omit 
the milk and butter. 

CREAM OF TOMATO NO. 1 

2 cups tomato pulp 1% cups cream 1 tablespoonful flour 

Salt to taste 

Heat the tomato pulp gradually to the boiling point, and 
thicken slightly with the flour made smooth with cold 
water. Heat the cream in a double boiler. Then set on 
the table, and pour the tomato gradually into the cream, 
stirring meanwhile. Salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

CREAM OF TOMATO NO. 2 

2 cups tomato pulp 1 cup water 2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter 

1 tablespoonful cream roast flour 1 cup canned milk 

Salt to taste 

Bring the tomato, water, and butter to a boil. Thicken 
slightly with the flour made smooth with cold tomato or 
water. Salt to taste, add canned milk (unheated), strain, 
and serve. 

CREAM OF GREEN PEAS NO. 1 

Cook new peas in sufficient water to cover, adding salt 
to taste. Mash through a colander, add hot rich cream 
to suit, strain, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INCREMENTS.) 



78 FOOD AND COOKERY 

CREAM OF GREEN PEAS NO. 2 

Vz can green peas (drained) 1 cup water Vz teaspoonful salt 

Sprinkle of onion 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

2 teaspoonfuls flour 1 cup hot milk 

Bring the water, peas, and onion to a boil, and let sim- 
mer for a few moments. Then rub through a colander. 
Rub the butter and flour together in a small saucepan, add 
a little of the hot milk, and stir smooth. Add the balance 
of the milk, and boil up, stirring constantly. Then add 
the peas, and salt to taste. Reheat, strain, and serve. 

CREAM OF CORN 

1 cup corn pulp 1 cup water 1 cup hot milk 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 2 teaspoonfuls flour Salt to taste 

Have the corn ground through a fine mill. Add the 
water, and let simmer gently for 15 minutes. Rub the 
butter and flour together in a small saucepan, add a little 
of the milk, and stir smooth. Add the rest of the milk, 
and boil up. Add the corn mixture, salt to taste, strain 
through a coarse strainer, and serve. 

CREAM OF VEGETABLE OYSTER 

1 Vz cups sliced vegetable oysters 2 cups water 1 cup hot milk 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 2 teaspoonfuls flour 

1 *fa teaspoonfuls salt 

Wash and scrape the salsify, and drop into cold water. 
Slice very thin. Add the required water and salt, and 
boil until well done, and the liquid is reduced to about 
1 cup. Take out % of the vegetable, to be used for gar- 
niture for the soup, and mash the remainder through a 
colander. Rub the butter and flour together in a small 
saucepan, add a little of the hot milk, and stir smooth. Add 
the remainder of the milk, and boil up. Add this to the 
mashed vegetable, and strain. Add the cooked vegetable 
oysters, reheat, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 79 

FRUIT SOUP NO. 1 

1 cup water 2 tablespoonfuls sago 1 teaspconful lemon juice 

1 cup blackberry or strawberry juice Sugar to taste 

Wash the sago in cold water, and drain well. Bring the 
water to a boil, add the sago, and cook gently until clear. 
Add the fruit juices, also hot, and sweeten to taste. Very 
nice served cold. 

FRUIT SOUP NO. 2 

2 cups berry juice V2 cup stewed raisins 6 cooked prunes 

3 tablespoonfuls sago Sugar to taste 2 cups water 

Wash the sago the same as for the preceding, and put 
to cook in two cups of hot water until the sago is clear. 
Stone and quarter the prunes, mix all the ingredients, and 
sweeten to taste. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREMENTS.) 



6 — Food and Cookery 



GRAINS, NUT FOODS, ENTREES 

To those seeking to provide a balanced diet, a few sug- 
gestions may be helpful. In many homes, meat is regarded 
as the chief part of the meal ; and, naturally, foods that are 
prepared to take the place of meat are denominated "meat 
substitutes." A wrong impression often associated with 
the use of this word, is that meat is a standard by which 
to judge the merits of other foods that are to take its place 
in the dietary. 

The nutriment of meat being practically all protein, a 
well balanced meal is nearly impossible when meat is eaten. 
There is almost certain to be an excess of the protein ele- 
ment in such a meal. This excess of protein, as stated in 
a preceding chapter, tends to bring about early degeneracy 
of the human body and shorten life. Therefore our aim 
should not be to bring the percentage of protein up to that 
contained in meat; for this would only serve to defeat one 
of the main objects in view, — that of balancing the food 
elements in a meal. 

A comparison between the body and the locomotive en- 
gine serves as an illustration for studying the fuel value 
of foods. While iron is essential to keep the engine in 
repair, the greatest demand will be for fuel with which to 
heat the boiler. So in the vital economy, protein is es- 
sential for the growth and repair of tissue; but beyond 
this, it is inferior to carbohydrates and fats. And as dif- 
ferent kinds of wood and coal are capable of giving off dif- 
ferent degrees of heat, and also giving off that heat in 
longer or shorter periods of time, so different kinds of 
foodstuffs work in about the same way. Also, certain kinds 
of coal, after being burned, leave a residue of clinkers to 
be raked out of the furnace ; so when a person overeats of 
protein foods, there is an extra amount of work for the 
kidneys, to rid the system of accumulated poisons. 

(80) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 81 

For practical purposes, it may be said that grains — 
wheat, rice, corn, oats — have an average nutritive value 
of over 80 per cent; legumes — dried peas, beans, lentils, 
and peanuts — about 85 per cent; nuts — almonds, filberts, 
walnuts — over 90 per cent; dried fruits — dates, figs, rai- 
sins — about 80 per cent. Thus we find in grains, fruits, 
and nuts, a basis for ample supply of all-round building 
food. 

The various nut foods on the market, composed chiefly 
of grains and nuts, contain the nutritive elements of food 
in a very concentrated form, and should not be eaten too 
freely, but should be combined with other foods. A few 
examples of how they may be made into appetizing dishes 
will be given in some of the following recipes. Other nut 
foods of a similar nature may be used in the place of the 
ones given, if desired. 

LEGUMES 

The most common representatives of this family which 
are used as foods are the various kinds of beans and peas, 
also lentils. Taking the world over, legumes are, next to 
cereals, the most valuable and the most extensively used 
among vegetable foods. They are found in all climates 
and all countries. The lentil is one of the most ancient 
of food plants. It has been grown from early times in 
Asia and the Mediterranean countries. 

Many people with weak digestion often experience dis- 
tress after eating boiled beans or peas. By the removal of 
the hulls, this trouble may be largely overcome; and in 
this manner, they may be made into a variety of dishes 
that are appetizing as well as nourishing. 

STEWED LIMA BEANS 

Pick the beans over, wash them thoroughly, and lift 
them from the water to remove any small pieces of grit 
that may be on the bottom of the kettle. Put them on the 



82 FOOD AND COOKERY 

fire in cold water, bring to a boil, and skim. Add one tea- 
spoonful of vegetable oil to each two cups of beans, and 
let them boil gently until they are thoroughly done. Salt 
should be added during the cooking, to give them flavor. 

BAKED LIMA BEANS 

Soak 1 cup of Lima beans overnight, and in the morn- 
ing, slip off the skins between the thumb and the finger. 
Put them in a small baking pan with V 2 teaspoonful salt, 
2 teaspoonfuls brown flour, 1 teaspoonful vegetable butter, 
and enough cold water to cover them. Put a pan over 
them, and set them into the oven to cook, adding a little 
water as needed, so they will not cook dry. When they are 
about done, remove the pan from the top, and let them 
brown nicely. Service for five persons. 

BROWNED BEAN PUREE 

2 cups bean puree 3 tablespoonfuls rich cream 

1 tablespoonful cream roast flour Salt 

Boil beans the same as for stewed Lima beans. Drain 
in a colander, saving the broth for soups or gravies. Mash 
through the colander, having them as dry as possible. Mix 
all ingredients, put into an oiled baking pan, brush over 
with a little thin cream or vegetable butter, and bake in 
a quick oven to a light brown color. Service for five per- 
sons. 

RIBBON BEAN LOAF 

1 cup Lima bean puree 1 cup kidney bean puree 

3 tablespoonfuls rich cream 2 tablespoonfuls cream roast flour 

Salt to taste 

Cook the beans separately until well done but not soft. 
Drain well, and mash through a colander, having the pulp 
as dry as possible. Add 1 tablespoonful of the cooked flour, 
1 V2 tablespoonfuls of cream, and salt to each, and mix well. 
Place in alternate layers in a brick-shaped tin, and bake 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INCREMENTS. ) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 83 

in a moderate oven until hot through and a nice brown. 
Serve with cream tomato sauce or gravy. Service for 
eight. 

BEAN I'ATTIES 

2 cups bean puree l V-z tablespoonfult vegetable batter 
1 tablespooniul chopped onion '.', tablespoonfuUi flour l egg 
Scant '/3 cup hot milk A sprinkle of lage Halt to i. 

Cook the beans the same as in the preceding recipe, and 
mash through a colander, having the pulp as dry as po 
Bible. In case it is too soft, it may be put into the oven 
for a few minutes. Make a paste as follows, for holding 
the food together: Put the butter, onion, and savory into 
a small saucepan, and let simmer for a few moments, but 
do not brown. Add the flour, and mix; then the milk, and 
stir smooth. Add the egg, slightly broken up, and stir over 
the fire until smooth and a very thick paste. Salt to taste, 
and add the bean puree. Mix well, and let cool. Then roll 
out into small, round cakes about % inch thick, mark on 
the top with a knife, lay in an oiled baking pan, brush 
over with cream or milk, and brown lightly in a hot oven. 

aiCE \M> i;<.<- <i<o<U ETTES 

2 cups steamed natural ri< (hard boiled) 

l tablespoonful 'hopped parsley 

Mix the chopped parsley and the chopped hard-boiled 
egg, and add to the rice. Make a paste the same as for 
bean patties, and mix in the ingredients. Dip a small tim- 
bale or ice cream mold in milk, fill with the croquette 
mixture, turn out on an oiled baking pan, and brown in 
a quick oven. Serve with any desired sauce. Chopped, 
cooked macaroni may be substituted for rice if desired. 

in;\\S WITH NOODLES 

Wash 1 cup of navy beans, and cook gently until thor- 
oughly done, adding salt while cooking. Drain, and add 

(USK LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL IXGREUIENT8.) 



84 FOOD AND COOKERY 

to the liquid enough water to make 3 cups. Add 2 tea- 
spoonfuls vegetable butter, and bring to a boil. Sprinkle 
in the noodles as given on page 52, and let boil gently for 
15 minutes. Add the cooked beans, shake together, reheat, 
and serve. 

PEAS WITH NOODLES 

2 cups green peas 2 cups water (preferably potato water) 

2 tablespoonfuls rich cream 1% cups noodles Salt to taste 

Put the peas to cook in boiling water, enough to cover. 
Add salt to taste. Let cook gently until tender. Put the 
cream into a small fry pan, and stir over the fire until the 
oil separates from the albumen. As soon as the albumen 
turns a light brown, add to the stewed peas, and boil up. 
Add the potato water, and, when boiling hot, sprinkle in 
the noodles, and let boil 15 or 20 minutes, and serve. 

BEANS WITH DUMPLINGS 

Cook 1 cup navy or Lima beans with sufficient water to 
cover, and salt to taste. When done, add 2 teaspoonfuls 
vegetable butter, and drop in the dumplings as given for 
"potato stew with dumplings," on page 86. Cover the 
vessel, let boil gently for 15 minutes, and serve. 

BROWN BEANS WITH MINT SAUCE 

Cook brown beans with water to cover, salt to taste, and 
a little vegetable butter. Let simmer until they are well 
done and the liquid is reduced low. Serve with a spoonful 
of mint sauce poure.d over each order, or serve separately, 
in bowls. 

STEWED SOY BEANS 

Soak the beans overnight, and cook several hours, until 
tender. Add salt to taste, and let simmer until the liquid 
is reduced to rich consistency. Then serve. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 85 

RICE AND M)V BEAN LOAF 

1% cups soy bean puree 1 cup steamed natural rice 

2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter V2 tablespoonful cream roast flour 

3 tablespoonfnls soy bean broth Salt to taste 

Take the boiled soy beans, drain, and mash through a 
colander, having the pulp as dry as possible. Rub the flour 
and the butter together, add the broth, and stir smooth. 
Add this sauce to the cooked rice, and mix with a fork. 
Add the soy puree, and mix well. Salt to taste, pack in 
an oiled brick-shaped tin, and bake until hot through, and 
a nice brown. 

RICE AND SOY BEAN PATTIES 

Take the soy-bean-rice mixture described in the preced- 
ing recipe, and roll out into small patties about % inch 
thick. Mark on the top with a knife, brush over with milk 
or cream, and brown lightly in a hot oven. 

STEWED GARBANZOS ( Chick-Peas) 

Wash 1 cupful garbanzos, and soak overnight. Drain, 
add 2V 2 cups water, and let simmer until they are thor- 
oughly done and the liquid is reduced to a rich consistency. 
Add salt while cooking. 

BAKED GARBANZOS 

Take the above recipe of cooked garbanzos, pour into an 
oiled baking pan, cover, and bake in a moderate oven until 
the liquid is reduced and the peas begin to brown on the 
bottom. Serve with baked apple or apple sauce. 

SAVORY VEGETABLE LOAF 

1 Vz cups soaked stale bread % cup cooked brown beans 

1V2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 1 tablespoonful chopped onion 

] '- tablespoonfuls brown flour Vz cup milk 1 egg 

Sage, marjoram, and salt to taste 

Soak the bread in cold water, and press out lightly. Put 
the butter, onion, and savory into a small pan, and simmer 

(USE level measurements for ALL INCREMENTS. ) 



86 FOOD AND COOKERY 

for a few moments, but do not brown. Add the brown 
flour, then the milk, and stir smooth. Mash the beans with 
a spoon, break the egg with a fork, and mix all ingredients. 
Put into an oiled baking tin, and bake until set and a nice 
brown. 

NUT AND POTATO PIE 

2 cups sliced raw potatoes 1 V2 cups cold water 1 teaspoonful onion 

1*4 teaspoonfuls salt 1 tablespoonful vegetable or dairy butter 

1 scant tablespoonful flour Chopped parsley 

Nut food or baked dressing cold (page 89) Hard-boiled egg Pie crust 

Add the sliced potato, onion, and salt to the water, and 
cook until done. Drain, and lay the sliced potato into an 
oiled baking pan. Put the butter and the flour into a small 
saucepan, and mix. Then add a little of the potato water, 
and stir smooth. Add the rest of the liquid, boil up, and 
pour the sauce over the sliced potato. Lay a few slices of 
hard-boiled egg, and the same of nut cero or sliced cold 
dressing, over the potato, and sprinkle lightly with chopped 
parsley over all. Cover with thin pie crust, mark into 
squares with a knife, brush over with milk, and bake to 
a nice brown. Service for five. 

POTATO STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

2 cups raw potato cut into half-inch squares 2 V 2 cups cold water 

1 teaspoonful chopped onion 1 V± teaspoonfuls salt 

2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Stew. — Bring the water, potato, onion, and salt, to a 
boil. Rub the butter and the flour smooth in a small sauce- 
pan. Add a little of the potato water, and stir smooth. 
Add more water, boil up, and pour over the potato stew. 

V2 cup water 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter A sprinkle of salt 

% cup sifted pastry flour 2 eggs 

Dumplings. — Bring the water, salt, and butter to a boil. 
Add the flour all at once, and stir smooth. Stir over the 
fire for a few moments, until the flour is thoroughly 

(USE level measurements for all increments.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 87 

scalded. Then set on the table. Break in 1 whole egg, 
and stir with a spoon until the egg is absorbed in the 
paste, and the paste is smooth and thick. Then add the 
other egg in like manner. Drop from the side of a table- 
spoon into the boiling stew, having first dipped the spoon 
into the hot liquid to avoid the dumplings' sticking to the 
spoon. Cover, and let boil about 15 minutes, or until the 
potato is thoroughly done, and the sauce of a nice consist- 
ency to dish up. 

VEGETABLE GLUTEN STEW 

2 medium sized raw potatoes 2 medium small turnips 

2 medium small carrots 2 tablespoonfuls diced onion 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 3 gluten biscuit (page 72) 4% cups cold water 
■ 3 tablespoonfuls brown flour 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

Cut the carrots and the turnips into large pieces, add 
the diced onion, salt, water, and the gluten biscuit (quar- 
tered and lightly browned in the oven until crisp), and 
bring to a boil. Let boil for 10 minutes. Then rub the 
flour and the butter together in a saucepan, add a little 
of the water from the vegetables, and stir smooth. Add 
more water, boil up, and pour again over the vegetables. 
Add the cut potato, and let simmer until the vegetables 
are thoroughly done, and the sauce is reduced to nice con- 
sistency to dish up. Sprinkle chopped parsley over the 
top of each dish. 

WHOLE RICE WITH PEAS 

Vz cup uncooked natural rice Wz cups hot water 

Wz cups cooked new peas 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

2 teaspoonfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls pea broth 

Wash the rice thoroughly, drain, add the hot water, and 
let boil gently until the water is evaporated and the rice 
looks dry. Then cover, and set on the edge of the stove to 
steam for 15 minutes. Rub the butter and the flour to- 
gether in a small saucepan, add the pea broth, and stir 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



88 FOOD AND COOKERY 

over the fire until smooth. Add the cooked rice, and mix 
with a fork. Then add the cooked new peas, mix lightly, 
put into the oven in a covered dish until hot through, and 
serve. 

LENTIL AND RICE LOAF 

2 cups steamed natural rice 1 cup lentil puree 
1 tablespoonful chopped onion 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

1 tablespoonful brown flour 3 tablespoonfuls vegetable broth 
% cup chopped walnuts A sprinkle of sage Salt to taste 

Put the butter, onion, and savory into a small saucepan, 
and simmer for a few moments. Add the brown flour, 
then the vegetable broth, and stir over the fire until smooth. 
Add the cooked rice, and mix with a fork. Mix all in- 
gredients, pack lightly in an oiled bread tin, and bake 
until hot through and browrf on top. 

BAKED RICE ITALIENNE 

Vz cup natural rice, raw % cup macaroni, raw 1 tablespoonful onion 
1 small clove garlic 1% tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

2 tablespoonfuls sweet bell pepper 1 V2 cups tomato pulp 

1 Vz cups water Salt Thyme 

Put the rice into frying pan, and brown over the fire or 
in a hot oven to a light golden brown. Add V2 teaspoonful 
salt and the water, and let cook down dry. Set on the edge 
of the stove with cover on, and let steam. Break the maca- 
roni up very small, and put to cook in boiling salted water. 
Cook until thoroughly done. Then wash and drain in a 
colander. Put the sweet pepper, onion, garlic, and thyme 
into a pan with the butter, and stir over fire for a few 
moments. Add the tomato, and boil up well. Salt to taste, 
and pour over the rice. Mix well. Put a layer of the rice- 
tomato in a small baking pan, sprinkle the macaroni evenly 
over it, season with small bits of vegetable butter or thick 
cream. Then pour on the rest of the rice, and bake V2 
hour or more. Service for five persons. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 89 

SPANISH KICK 

V6 cup natural rice W2 cups hot water 1V 2 cups tomato pulp 

2 Vz tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 3 tablespoonf uls diced onion 

2 tablespoonfuls diced sweet bell peppers 

IVz tablespoonfuls cream roast flour A sprinkle of sage 

Salt to taste 

Brown the rice in a frying pan on the stove, or in a hot 
oven, until a very light brown. Add the hot water, and 
let boil gently until the water is evaporated and the rice 
looks dry. Cover, and let steam on the edge of the stove 
for 10 minutes. Put the butter, onion, bell pepper, and 
savory into a small pan, and simmer for a few moments. 
Add the flour, then a little of the tomato, and stir smooth. 
Add the rest of the tomato, and boil 5 minutes. Salt to 
taste, and pour over the cooked rice. Mix well, and let 
steam until of a consistency to dish up nicely and not run 
on the platter. 

BAKED DRESSING 

3 cups soaked stale bread 2% tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

3 tablespoonfuls diced onion 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley 

1 tablespoonful brown flour 1 egg Sage and marjoram 

Salt to taste 

Have the bread soaked in cold water until soft all the 
way through. Put the diced onion, parsley, butter, and 
savory into a small pan, and let simmer for a few moments, 
but do not brown. Add the brown flour, and mix. Then 
add Vz cup vegetable broth or milk, and stir smooth. Press 
the bread out, not too dry. Beat the egg slightly, and mix 
all the ingredients lightly with a silver fork. Avoid break- 
ing up the bread too much. Put into an oiled baking pan, 
and bake until set and a nice brown. 

BAKED DRESSING (Without Eggs) 

2 cups soaked stale bread 1V 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley 

Sage and marjoram 2 tablespoonf uls brown flour 

V2 cup milk Salt to taste 

Put the butter, onion, savory, and parsley into a small 
saucepan, and let simmer for a few moments. Add the 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



90 FOOD AND COOKERY 

brown flour, and mix. Then add the milk, and stir smooth. 
Press the bread out well, and mix all ingredients. Salt to 
taste, and bake in an oiled pan to a nice brown. 

ROASTED POTATO WITH DRESSING 

Cook medium sized pared potatoes in a saucepan until 
about half done. Drain, and lay in an oiled baking pan. 
Sprinkle with salt, then with flour, and brush over each 
potato with an oiled brush. Put into a quick oven, and 
bake until partly browned. Then fill in between the po- 
tatoes with either of the foregoing dressings, and finish 
baking together. Serve with brown gravy. 

ROAST NUT MEAT WITH DRESSING 

Open a pound can of nut cero or other nut food, split 
through the center lengthwise, lay in an oiled pan, brush 
the top over with oil or vegetable butter, and put in the 
oven until a slight crust forms on the meat. Then pour 
over it a thin brown sauce, and continue to bake for 
V2 hour, basting it now and then over the top with gravy. 
When done, lift out on a carving board, slice, and serve 
with either of the preceding- dressings, as follows : Lay the 
nut food on a carving board, put a spoonful of dressing on 
the platter, lay a slice of nut food on the top, and pour a 
spoonful of gravy on half of the food. Serve with a sprig 
of parsley at one end, and a small piece of cranberry jelly, 
if at hand. 

BAKED MACARONI FAMILY STYLE 

1 cup macaroni raw 1 cup tomato pulp 1 tablespoonful onion 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter A sprinkle of sage or thyme 

1 egg Salt to taste 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, drop into boiling 

salted water, and cook until thoroughly done. Then wash, 

and drain in a colander. - Put the butter, onion, and a little 

sage or thyme into a saucepan, and stir over fire for a 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 91 

few moments, but do not brown. Add the tomato, and 
bring to a boil. Salt to taste. Then pour the hot mixture 
slowly into the beaten egg, stirring it briskly as it is being 
poured in. Add the cooked macaroni, pour all into an 
oiled baking pan, and bake to a light brown. Service for 
five persons. 

BAKED MACARONI AND OLIVES 

V2 cup uncooked macaroni % cup chopped ripe olives 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion 2 tablespoonfuls tomato 

1 cup of water in which the macaroni was cooked 

1 tablespoonful vegetable oil 2 V 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt and celery salt to taste 

Break the macaroni into half-inch lengths, drop into 
boiling salted water, and cook until it is well done. Put 
the oil into a small pan on the stove, and when hot, add 
the flour, and stir until browned. Then add the onion and 
the chopped olives, and let them cook a few minutes. Then 
add 1 cup macaroni water and 2 tablespoonfuls tomato. 
Let it boil 5 minutes. Have the macaroni well drained, 
and while it is hot, put it into the gravy. Turn into a bak- 
ing dish, grate a few fresh bread crumbs over the top, and 
with a spoon press them down so they become moistened 
through. Bake until a nice brown. Service for four per- 
sons. 

MACARONI ATI GRATIN 

Break macaroni into inch lengths, drop into boiling- 
salted water, and let boil until thoroughly done. Then 
wash in cold water, and drain well. Mix with enough 
cream sauce (page 96) to season nicely. Pour into an 
oiled baking pan, grate fresh bread crumbs over the top, 
and press down with a spoon so they become well moistened. 
Sprinkle over with rich cream or small pieces of vegetable 
butter, and bake to a nice brown. 

NOODLES AIT GRATIN 

Sprinkle the noodles given on page 52 into boiling salted 
water, and let boil gently for 15 or 20 minutes. Drain well, 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS'FOR all increments.) 



92 FOOD AND COOKERY 

mix with cream sauce, and bake the same as for macaropi 
an gratin. 

SPAGHETTI IN TOMATO 

% cup raw spaghetti 2 cups tomato pulp 2 tablespoonfuls onion 

2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter A small clove of garlic if desh'ed 
A pinch of thyme 4 tablespoonfuls cream roast flour Salt to taste 

Break the spaghetti into inch lengths, drop into boiling 
salted water, and let boil until thoroughly done. Then 
wash in cold water, and drain well. Put the butter, 
onion, garlic, and thyme into a small saucepan, and stir 
over the fire for a few moments. Add the flour, and mix. 
Then add a small quantity of the tomato, and stir smooth. 
Stir in the rest of the tomato, and boil up. Salt to taste, 
add the spaghetti, and let simmer until it is of a consist- 
ency to dish up and not run on the platter. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI EN CROISTADE 

Take the proportion of cooked spaghetti given in the 
above recipe, add sufficient cream sauce to moisten nicely, 
and pour into an oiled baking pan. Chop 2 hard-boiled 
eggs fine, and mix with 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley. 
Sprinkle over the spaghetti, and press down with a spoon 
into the cream. Cover with pie crust, mark into squares 
with a knife, brush over with cream or milk, and bake to 
a nice brown. 

CEREAL FILLETS 

2 cups milk % cup corn meal, toasted lightly in the oven 

2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter Salt to 'taste 

Heat the milk to the boiling point, and sift in the corn 
meal gradually, stirring as it is being added, to prevent 
lumping. Add salt and butter, and let cook gently for 
about 20 minutes. Then pour into an oiled bread tin, and 
let cool. When cold, cut into squares or triangles, and dip 
first into flour, then into cream, or milk and egg, then 
again into fine bread or cracker crumbs. Lay in an oiled 
baking pan, brush over with cream or milk, and bake to 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 93 

a nice brown, in a quick oven. Serve with maple sirup 
or jelly. 

OLIVE FILLETS 

1 dozen chopped ripe olives 2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley Sage or marjoram % cup milk 

2 tablespoonfuls brown flour Salt to taste 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

Put the butter, onion, parsley, and savory into a small 
saucepan, and simmer for a few moments. Add the brown 
flour and the chopped olives, and stir. Then add the milk, 
and make smooth. Cut white bread into thin slices, trim 
off the crust, and spread lightly with vegetable butter. 
Cover with a spread of the olive filling, and lay another 
slice of bread over this. Press together, and cut into tri- 
angles. Lay in an oiled baking pan, pour over it a thin 
cream-tomato sauce, and let simmer in the oven until hot 
through, basting now and then with a spoon, and serve. 

VEGETABLE LOAF EN ASPIC 

Wet an ordinary bread tin with cold water. Then gar- 
nish the bottom with slices of hard-boiled egg, parsley, 
and cooked string beans or peas, and fill in with cold baked 
dressing (page 89) or nut food cut into large squares, until 
the pan is nearly full. 

Have a good vegetable broth, boiled with a few outer 
skins of red onions to give color. Take 1% cups broth, 
1 teaspoonful grated onion, salt to taste, and add V2 cup 
vegetable jelly as prepared on page 117. Mix well, and 
pour immediately over the food prepared in the dish. 
Shake slightly so as to allow the gelatin to get beneath 
the food. Then let stand until cold, invert on a platter, 
and serve. 

WALNUT ROAST 

V2 cup ground walnuts 1 cup zwieback crumbs 1 cup warm milk 

V2 cup steamed natural tic i 2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion 

1 tablespoonful chopped parsley 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

1 egg 1 tablespoonful brown flour 

Pour % cup of the milk over the crumbs, and let stand 
for 5 minutes. Put the butter, onion, and parsley into a 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



94 FOOD AND COOKERY 

small vessel, and stir over the fire for a few moments. 
Add the flour, then the milk. Stir smooth, and set on the 
table. Add the slightly beaten egg, the ground walnuts, 
salt to taste, and mix. Add the crumbs, and lastly, fold 
in the rice with a fork, press into an oiled baking pan, and 
bake to a nice brown. 

WALNUT TIMBALES 

2 cups stale bread cut in small dice Vz cup ground walnuts 

1 tablespoonful onion 1 cup milk 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

1 egg X A cup tomato Sage and salt to taste 

Beat the egg, add the milk, pour over the diced bread, 

and let soak 20 minutes. Put the onion, sage, and butter 

into a small pan, and simmer for a few moments. Add the 

tomato, and boil up well. Mix all ingredients thoroughly. 

Salt to taste. Oil 5 timbale molds, divide the mixture 

among them, set into a pan of water, and bake until set. 

Serve with tomato or tomato-cream sauce. 

NEW ENGLAND DINNER 

4 medium sized potatoes 4 small carrots 4 turnips 6 small onions 
V2 small cabbage 1 V2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter Salt to taste 

Quarter the peeled carrots and turnips. Add the onions 
whole, and put into a saucepan with water to cover. Add 
the salt, and bring to a boil. Separate the leaves of the 
cabbage, drop into boiling water, and let boil for 5 min- 
utes. Drain, and add to the vegetables. When the car- 
rots are about half cooked, add the potatoes cut into 
halves, and the vegetable butter. Salt to taste, and let 
cook gently until all the vegetables are thoroughly done. 
To dish up, lay the cooked cabbage first on the center of 
the platter. Then arrange the vegetables around the cab- 
bage, alternating the vegetables, a carrot, a turnip, an 
onion, a potato, etc., having them so arranged that the 
points turn away from the cabbage. Pour over a few 
spoonfuls of the broth from the cooked vegetables, and 
serve. A slice of nut food may be served with each order 
if available. 

(use level measurements for all ixgrements.) 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

BROWN GRAVY 

2 tablespoonfuls crisco or vegetable oil 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 tablespoonful onion 1V 3 cups vegetable broth or potato water Salt 

Put the oil into a small frying pan, and when hot, add 
the flour, and keep stirring until well browned. Then add 
the onion, and stir for a few minutes. Add a little of the 
liquid, and stir smooth. Add the rest of the liquid, and 
boil up well. Salt to taste, strain, and serve. 

EGG GRAVY 

2Vz tablespoonfuls crisco or vegetable oil 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 teaspoonful onion 2 cups potato water or almost any vegetable broth 

1 egg Salt to taste 

Put the oil into a frying pan, and when hot, add the 
whole egg. Break the yolk, and stir very little until brown 
and crisp. Remove the brown/ egg from the oil, and chop 
fine. Brown the flour in the oil, the same as in the pre- 
ceding recipe, and when light brown, add the onion, and 
stir for a few minutes. Add the chopped egg and a third 
of the liquid, and stir smooth. Add the remainder of the 
liquid, and boil 5 minutes. 

BROWN CREAM GRAVY 

Cook down V 2 cup sour cream, stirring constantly, until 
the oil and the albumen separate and the albumen turns a 
light brown color. Then add enough brown flour to take 
up the oil thus made. Add potato water or vegetable 
broth, and finish the same as the preceding recipe. 

COUNTRY GRAVY 

Use the same proportions of flour and oil as in either 
of the foregoing recipes, but substitute milk in place of 
vegetable broth, and the flour should not be browned too 
much. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 

(95) 

7 — Food and Cookery 



96 FOOD AND COOKERY 

CREAM SAKE 

1 cup hot milk 1 \k tablespoon fuls vegetable butter 

Scant 2 tablespoonfuls flour Salt to taste 

Rub the butter and the flour together in a small sauce- 
pan. Add % cup hot milk, and stir smooth. Add the 
rest of the milk, and boil up. Salt to taste, and serve. 

NUT SAUCE 

Dissolve 2 tablespoonfuls nut butter in a little hot milk, 
and stir into the foregoing cream sauce. 

EGG SAUCE 

Add 2 chopped hard-boiled eggs to the above cream 
sauce, mix, and serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1 cup tomato pulp 1 tablespbonful vegetable butter 

Scant 2 tablespoonfuls cream roast flour Vz teaspoonful onion 

A pinch of thyme Salt to taste 

Put the butter, onion, and savory into a small saucepan, 
and simmer for a few moments. Add the cooked flour, 
then the tomato, and stir smooth. Boil up, salt to taste, 
strain, and serve. 

TOMATO CREAM SAUCE 

Stir V 2 cup hot rich cream or cream sauce into the 
foregoing tomato sauce, strain, and serve. 

BRAZIU NUT SAUCE 

5 Brazil nuts ground fine 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 V2 cups potato water or milk 

Brown the flour in a frying pan on top of the stove. 
When it is a light golden color, add the nuts, and stir 
through the flour for 5 minutes. Add half the liquid, and 
stir smooth. Add the remainder of the water, and let it 
cook 10 minutes. Salt to taste, strain, and serve. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 97 

MINT SAUCE 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped green mint *4 cup boiling water 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 tablespoonful lemon juice A pinch of salt 

Put the chopped mint into a small cup, add the sugar, 
and pour on the hot water. Cover, and let stand 20 min- 
utes or more. Then add the lemon juice and the salt. 

LEMON SAUCE 

1 cup water V 2 cup sugar Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 1 tablespoonful cornstarch 

A few grains of salt 

Bring the water to a boil. Mix the starch with the 
sugar, add to the boiling water, and stir smooth. Let 
boil gently for a few moments. Add the butter, the lemon, 
and a few grains of salt. Mix well, and serve. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

1 egg yolk % cup milk 1 teaspoonful sugar 

A few drops of vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. When hot, stir a little 
of it into the beaten yolk, and mix well. Then pour the 
yolk mixture into the hot milk, and continue stirring until 
it lightly coats a silver spoon lifted out of the same. 
Then set in a dish of cold water to cool. Add vanilla flavor. 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



VEGETABLES 

Vegetables may be divided into two great classes: 

1. Coarse or fibrous vegetables, comprising the roots, 
tubers, stems, bulbs, and leaves. 

2. The finer or fruity vegetables, as tomato, squash, 
pumpkin, green peas, corn, immature beans (shelled), 
cucumbers, melons, etc. 

Vegetables are characterized by their large amount of 
cellulose; and as water enters largely into their compo- 
sition, they are by no means the most nutritious diet. 
Food, however, in order to supply perfectly the needs of 
the vital economy, must contain water, and indigestible 
as well as nutritive elements. Vegetables are therefore 
dietetically of great value, as they furnish large quanti- 
ties of organic fluids, and are rich in those mineral ele- 
ments which are necessary for maintaining the alkalinity 
of the blood, and for the repair of the bony structures. 

Perhaps no food is more generally used by rich and poor 
alike in making up their daily bill of fare; yet how often 
the vegetable is spoiled in cooking! In the first place, the 
portion of the vegetable next to the skin contains the 
greater quantity of mineral matter and flavoring sub- 
stances. Hence all thin-skinned vegetables, such as car- 
rots, oyster plant, etc., should be scraped. Others should 
oe pared as thinly as possible. 

Vegetables, like all starchy foods, should be put to cook 
in boiling water, as by the application of hot water, the 
starch grains are caused to swell and burst, and this gives 
the starch an opportunity to escape through the cellulose. 

Whenever possible, vegetables should be cooked the same 
day they are gathered. If necessary to keep green vege- 
tables for any length of time, do not put them in water, 
as that will dissolve and destroy some of their juices. 
Lay them in a cool, dark place. A stone floor is best. Old 
vegetables should be immersed in cold water for an hour 

(98) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 99 

or more just before cooking, to make them more tender. 
Young, tender vegetables, as lettuce, tomatoes, water 
cress, etc., served in the uncooked state, are valuable for 
the water and potash salts they contain, also for the 
stimulating effect they have on the appetite. 

NEW PEAS 

Shell peas as soon after picking them as possible, drop 
into cold water, and "skim off any dry leaves or imperfect 
peas that come to the top. Then dip the peas out of the 
water with the hands, drop them into boiling water enough 
to cover, add salt, and let them cook gently until they are 
well done and the liquid is reduced to one third its original 
quantity. Season with a little vegetable butter or cream 
if desired. 

STRING BEANS 

String beans should be picked while young and tender. 
Break them between the hands to remove any stringy 
fiber, and remove the ends. Put to cook in boiling water 
enough to cover, salt to taste, and let boil gently until 
they are done and the liquid is reduced to a nice consist- 
ency for flavoring the vegetable. Add a little vegetable 
butter or cream, reheat, and serve. String beans that 
are a little old when picked, should be lifted out of water, 
put into a vessel with a little vegetable oil, and let steam 
for 15 minutes before hot water is added, and they will be 
much more tender. 

NEW ASPARAGUS 

Put the stalks into a deep pan of water, and wash well, 
that sand and grit may sink to the bottom. Change the 
water, and lift them out, tie them in bundles of about 3 
portions each, lay on a board, and trim off the root stems, 
leaving the stalks about 4 inches in length. Drop into 
boiling salted water, and cook until tender. Then set the 
saucepan off the stove until ready to serve. Lift out and 



100 FOOD AND COOKERY 

drain, lay on a platter, cut and remove the strings, and 
send to the table. Serve with rich cream sauce. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS AND NEW PEAS 

Break the tender part of asparagus into ^-inch lengths, 
and cook in just enough water to cook well. Add salt 
while cooking. Cook new peas separately. Mix, and add 
sufficient cream or cream sauce to season. Shake to- 
gether, reheat, and serve. 

STEWED TOJIATO 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes, and let remain 
a few seconds. Then drain, remove the skins and stems, 
with the hard green parts, and cut into halves. Put into 
a saucepan with about 1 teaspoonful vegetable butter to 
each 2 cups of tomato, and salt to taste. Boil up well 
and serve. 

BREADED TOMATO 

Cut stale bread into half-inch cubes, and brown in the 
oven until crisp all through. Drop them into the boiling 
stewed tomatoes, and serve. 

BAKED TOMATO 

Select medium sized, solid tomatoes, peel them, and with 
the point of a knife, cut out a little of the hard part of 
the stem end. Lay them close together in a baking pan, 
sprinkle with salt and sugar, and put a speck of vegetable 
butter in each cavity. Then bake until done but not broken. 

SCALLOPED TOMATO 

1 cup toasted croutons 1 V2 cups stewed tomato 

1 tablespoonful vegetable or dairy butter A sprinkle of sugar 

Salt to taste 

Put V 2 cup of croutons into the bottom of an oiled bak- 
ing dish, pour over these W2 cups of tomatoes seasoned, 
sprinkle the remaining half cup of croutons over the top, 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 101 

press them down with spoon so they are all submerged, 
put the butter over the top, and bake to a nice brown. 

SUMMER SQUASH 

When young and tender, summer squash need only be 
washed and quartered. Steam until tender, and press 
between two colanders or in cheesecloth until quite dry. 
Mash, and season with salt and cream. When the squash 
is older, it must be peeled and have the seeds removed be- 
fore cooking. 

SCALLOPED SUMMER SQUASH 

2 cups cooked summer squash 1 cup milk 2 cups stale bread 
1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 1 egg Salt 

Cook the squash in salted water or steam until done, 
drain well, and mash. Trim off the brown crust from 
stale white bread, and cut the white part into small dice. 
Beat the egg, add the milk and a little salt, and pour 
over the bread, letting it soak 10 minutes. Add the squash 
and the butter to the soaked bread, mix lightly, and lay 
in an oiled baking pan. Sprinkle a little cream or butter 
over the top, and bake until thoroughly done and a nice 
brown. 

RAKED SUMMER SQUASH 

Cut summer squash into thick slices, drop into boiling 
salted water, and cook until nearly done. Drain, and lay 
in an oiled baking pan. Put a spoonful of cream sauce 
over each piece, and brown quickly in the oven. 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT 

Use one medium large eggplant (two cups after being 
cooked). Pare the eggplant, quarter, and slice V2 inch 
thick. Then drop into boiling salted water, and cook until 
well done. Drain and mash. Use the same proportions of 
diced bread, milk, and egg as for scalloped summer squash. 
Mix and bake the same as for scalloped squash. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



102 FOOD AND COOKERY 

BREADED EGGPLAM 

Pare, and cut into thick slices. Drop into boiling salted 
water, and cook until slightly underdone. Then drain. 
Dip each piece first into flour, then into cream, or miik 
and egg, then into fine bread or cracker crumbs. Lay in 
a baking pan, brush over with cream, or milk and a small 
piece of vegetable butter. Cover, and bake until thoroughly 
done. Then remove the cover, and brown lightly. 

BAKED EGGPLANT 

Pare eggplant, and cut into slices about % inch thick. 
Drop into boiling salted water, and let cook until nearly 
done. Drain, and lay in an oiled pan. Pour a spoonful 
of cream sauce over the top of each piece, and brown 
lightly in a quick oven. 

CORN ON COB 

Add milk or a small quantity of lemon juice to the water 
for corn, bring to boil, put in the ears of corn, boil up 
well, then set on the edge of the stove to draw for 20 
minutes. Salt, if added, should be put in after the corn 
is cooked, as it toughens the kernels and turns them a red 
color. 

GREEN CORN SAUTE 

Put y 2 cup of rich cream into an oiled frying pan, with 
a teaspoonful of chopped onion if desired. Let cook down 
until it nearly separates. Then add 2 cups corn cut off 
the cob, with salt. Toss in the pan over the fire until 
thoroughly heated through, and serve. 

BAKED CREAM CORN 

1 cup corn pulp % cup rich milk 1 egg 

Vz cup light colored zwieback crumbs % teaspoon salt 

A sprinkle of celery salt 

Warm the milk to about 120 degrees, pour it over the 
crumbs, and let them soak. Have the corn ground through 

(use level measurements for all ingrements.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 103 

a fine mill, mix all the ingredients, put into an oiled baking 
pan, put a teaspoonful of butter or a little cream over the 
top, and bake until set and a nice brown. 

CAULIFLOWER IN CREAM 

Remove all green leaves from cauliflower, and divide 
into bouquets or pieces about the size of a large hen's egg. 
Wash, and soak in salted water for 20 minutes. (This 
will remove any worm that might be hid in the flower.) 
Drop into boiling salted water, and cook until tender. 
Then set off the stove. Lift the pieces carefully out of the 
water, drain, and lay on a platter. Pour a spoonful of 
cream sauce over each piece, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

Cook the cauliflower the same as in the preceding recipe. 
Drain, and lay in an oiled baking pan. Put cream sauce 
lightly over all. Grate fresh bread crumbs over, and 
sprinkle with cream or small pieces of vegetable butter. 
Press the crumbs into the cream with a spoon to moisten 
them, and brown in a quick oven. 

STEWED VEGETABLE OYSTER 

Wash salsify, scrape with a knife, and drop immediately 
into water to keep from turning a dark color. Slice or 
cut into any desired shape. Put 2 cups of the vegetable 
into a saucepan, with hot water to cover, and salt to 
taste. Let boil gently until it is done and the water is 
reduced to 1 cupful. Put 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 
into a saucepan with x k tablespoonful flour, and mix. Add 
a little of the liquid, and stir smooth. Add the rest of the 
liquid, and boil up. Pour over the vegetable, and let sim- 
mer for 10 minutes or more. 

SCALLOPED VEGETABLE OYSTER 

Prepare the vegetable as in the preceding recipe, slice 
very thin, and cook tender. Put layers of the oysters in a 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



104 FOOD AND COOKERY 

baking pan, dredging each layer with flour. To each pint 
of vegetable thus prepared, heat 1 cup of milk to boiling, 
beat in enough vegetable butter and salt to season, pour 
this over the vegetable, and bake to a nice brown. 

STEWED CARROTS 

2 cups sliced young carrots 1 Vz cups water 1 teaspoonf ul salt 
2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter 1 teaspoonful flour 

Add the water and the salt to the sliced carrots, and 
let boil gently until they are done and the liquid is re- 
duced to V2 cup. Rub the butter and the flour together in 
a small saucepan, add a little of the broth, and stir smooth. 
Add the rest of the broth, and boil up. Add the cooked 
carrots, reheat, and serve. 

CARROTS IN CREAM 

Add a little rich cream or cream sauce to the foregoing 
recipe, and shake together, reheat, and serve. 

CARROTS WITH EGG SAUCE 

Add 2 or 3 sliced hard-boiled eggs to the foregoing 
creamed carrots. 

CARROTS AND GREEN PEAS 

Use the recipe for stewed carrots, adding an equal quan- 
tity of cooked peas. Reheat and serve. 

STEWED BEETS 

Scrub small beets without breaking the skin. Do not 
trim the roots, or the juice will run out. Boil until tender, 
drain, cover with cold water, and push off the skins with 
the hands. Cut each beet into eighths lengthwise. Put 1 
tablespoonful of vegetable butter into a saucepan with % 
tablespoonful flour, and rub together. Add ^4 cup cold 
water, and stir smooth. Pour on % cup boiling water, and 
stir until it boils up well. Add 1 tablespoonful lemon 
(use level measurements for all increments.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 105 

juice, and salt to taste. Add the beets, reheat, and let 
them stand 10 minutes or more before serving. A few 
chopped onions may be added to the roux in making the 
sauce, if desired. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Cook the beets the same as directed in the preceding 
recipe, and slice them thin. Put into a saucepan with salt 
and enough vegetable butter to season. Add a little lemon 
juice, reheat, and serve. 

SCALLOPED BEETS 

Add enough rich cream sauce to sliced boiled beets to 
moisten them, and lay in a baking pan. Grate fresh crumbs 
over the top, moistening them with a little cream or milk. 
Put small bits of vegetable butter on top, and brown in the 
oven. 

STEWED TURNIPS 

Peel young turnips, and cut them into quarters or 
eighths lengthwise. Put into a saucepan with water barely 
to cover them. Add salt, and let simmer until they are done 
and the water is mostly absorbed. Add a little rich cream 
or cream sauce, shake together, reheat, and serve. 

BAKED PARSNIPS 

Wash and scrape parsnips. Cut them lengthwise into 
slices about % inch thick. Put them to boil in just enough 
water to cover, and salt to season. When tender, remove 
from the saucepan, lay them close together in an oiled 
baking pan. Pour a spoonful of rich cream sauce over each 
piece, and bake to a nice brown. 

STEWED PARSNIPS WITH EGG SATJCE 

Prepare the parsnips for cooking, the same as in the 
foregoing recipe. Slice, or cut into small pieces, cover with 
water, add salt to taste, and boil gently until done. Drain, 
add enough egg sauce to season well, reheat, and serve. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



106 FOOD AND COOKERY 



SPINACH 



Pick the greens over carefully, and wash in several 
waters to remove grit. If the greens are very tender, 
lift them out of the water, drain well, and put them into 
a saucepan with a little salt and vegetable butter to sea- 
son, adding no water. Cover, and cook until done, turn- 
ing them over in the pan now and then. When greens 
are more matured, cook them in deep boiling water with 
the cover off. When done, drain, cut fine, and season with 
vegetable butter and salt to taste. Reheat, and serve with 
quartered lemon or hard-boiled egg, or both. 

STEWED OKRA AND TOMATO 

2 cups sliced okra 3 large new tomatoes or 1 cup canned tomato 
2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter Salt to taste Onion flavor if desired 

Wash the okra pods, remove the stem ends, and slice 
% inch thick. Add salt and a sprinkle of onion, and water 
to cover, and let cook gently until nearly done. Then add 
the tomato, and let simmer until the vegetables are thor- 
oughly done, but not mashed. Add the butter, shake to- 
gether, and serve. 

BOILED ONIONS 

Remove the outer skins from medium small white on- 
ions, cover with water, and bring to a boil. Drain, add 
more boiling water, salt to taste, and let cook gently until 
done. Put 1 V2 tablespoonf uls vegetable butter into a small 
pan, add 1 tablespoonful flour, and rub together. Add V^ 
cup onion broth, and stir smooth. Add % cup more of 
broth, and boil up. Add the boiled onions, let simmer for 
10 minutes, and serve. 

ONIONS IN CREAM 

Add rich cream or cream sauce to the above boiled on- 
ions, shake together, reheat, and serve. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 107 

SMOTHERED CUCUMBERS 

Pare medium sized cucumbers, and slice into hot cream 
sauce. Cover, let simmer until they are tender, and serve. 

CUCUMBERS WITH EGG SAUCE 

Add sliced hard-boiled egg to the above smothered cu- 
cumbers, shake together, and serve. 

STEWED CELERY WITH PEAS 

Wash celery, and shred with a knife. Cover with hot 
water, and let boil gently until done and the liquid mostly 
evaporated. Cook the peas separately, drain, and mix with 
the celery. Rub together 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 
and V 2 tablespoonful flour in a small saucepan. Add x k 
cup liquid from the vegetable, and stir smooth. Add % 
cup more of liquid, and boil up. Add the cooked vege- 
tables, reheat, and serve. 

SUCCOTASH 

Take 2 cupfuls stewed green Lima beans, add 1 cupful 
stewed sweet corn, and 2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter 
or a little cream. Reheat and serve. Dry beans well 
cooked and canned corn may be used instead of new vege- 
tables if desired. 

STEWED CABBAGE 

Trim a small cabbage, cut into halves, remove the stem, 
and separate the leaves, dropping them into boiling salted 
water. Let cook gently with cover off, until done. Then 
drain. Put a little cream and vegetable butter into a 
saucepan, add the cabbage, reheat well, and serve. 

ROASTED POTATO 

Steam or boil pared raw potatoes until they are about 
half cooked. Then drain, and place in an oiled baking pan. 
Sprinkle with salt, then with flour, brush over each potato 
with an oiled brush, and bake to a nice brown. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



108 FOOD AND COOKERY 

SCALLOPED POTATO 

Slice pared raw potatoes thin. Put a layer of the sliced 
potatoes into an oiled baking pan, and sprinkle with salt 
and flour. Repeat the process until the pan is about three 
fourths full. Pour over the potatoes enough milk to cover 
them. Put small bits of vegetable butter on top, and bake 
until thoroughly done. 

KENTUCKY POTATO 

Add finely chopped onion and parsley to each layer of 
the foregoing scalloped potatoes, and bake the same as the 
above recipe. Water may be used in place of the milk, 
if desired, a little more of the butter being used than when 
milk is used. 

POTATO DUCHESS 

4 cups hot mashed potatoes 1 egg yolk Salt 
1 tablespoonful vegetable butter Thin cream 

Boll pared potatoes, drain, mash through a potato ricer, 
and set on the edge of the stove. Add the butter, the 
cream, the beaten yolk, salt to taste, and mix well. Put 
into a pastry bag with a star tube, and press out on an 
oiled pan in large rose shapes, or lap on a board, and 
form into diamond or leaf shapes. Brush over with cream 
or milk, and bake in a quick oven. 

POTATO EN SURPRISE 

Put the above potato mixture into a pastry bag, and 
make round potato borders on an oiled baking sheet, leav- 
ing a hollow in the center. Fill this cavity with nicely 
seasoned green peas or spinach. Cover with the potato, 
brush over with cream, and bake the same as the preceding. 

ROASTED SWEET POTATO 

Steam or boil sweet potatoes until the skins can be 
scraped off easily. Lay in an oiled baking pan, and sprin- 
kle with salt. Then brush over each potato with vegetable 
oil, and bake until done and a nice brown. 

'USE level measurements for all INGREDIENTS. ) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 109 

GLAZED SWEET POTATO 

Boil sweet potatoes until done, peel, and cut into quar- 
ters lengthwise, if not too large. Lay them close together 
in an oiled baking pan, dust with salt to season, and sprin- 
kle sugar lightly over all. Brush over with vegetable oil, 
and brown nicely. 

MASHED SWEET POTATO 

Pare the potatoes, and steam, or drop into boiling water 
and cook until done. Drain, mash, and season with rich 
cream or butter and salt. 



DESSERTS 

The most wholesome desserts are those furnished us by 
nature, and which require no preparation, as fruits, either 
fresh, dried, or cooked, and nuts. The nutriment in fruits 
consists chiefly of natural fruit sugars, which are ready 
for absorption; and they should form a part of every 
day's dietary. 

Fruits, because of their attractive colors, sweet aroma, 
and delicious flavors, are the very best appetizers, appeal- 
ing to the sense of sight, smell, and taste. They satisfy a 
natural craving for something dainty at meals without 
burdening the system with extra work, and with little 
danger of excess. As it is written, "Of every tree of the 
garden thou mayest freely eat." Genesis 2 : 16. No dan- 
ger of "auto-intoxication" here; but, on the other hand, 
fruit acids are cleansing, and their alkaline substances are 
valuable for improving the condition of the blood. 

Cane sugar is quite different from fruit sugar, in that 
it needs to be digested, or converted into fruit sugar, in 
order to be utilized by the body. Saliva does not exert 
any influence upon cane sugar, neither does the gastric 
juice. The intestinal juice aids in converting it into fruit 
sugar; but there is more or less danger of fermentation's 
being set up, and the irritant thus formed aids in bring- 
ing about catarrhal conditions. If one subsists largely 
upon fruits, the desire for artificial and highly sweetened 
foods will disappear. No other foods are so well suited 
for children as are fruits. All children have a craving 
for sweets. This is natural, at least to some degree; and 
they should be supplied with sweets designed by nature to 
satisfy this desire. 

As a rule, far too much sugar is used in food. "Sweet 
breads, sweet cakes, . . . perpetuate indigestion and 
make dyspeptics." We should exercise care, however, to 
provide suitable dishes to take the place of the more harm- 

(110) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 111 

« 

ful ones, ever remembering that "diet reform must be pro- 
gressive." The free use of milk and sugar taken together 
is especially harmful, and should be avoided. Their place 
should be supplied, as far as possible, by preparations of 
fruit, and a variety of grains served., in an appetizing 
manner. A simple cake may be made without the large 
quantities of butter, sugar, milk, and eggs ordinarily used, 
which are difficult of digestion. A few examples of such 
cake will follow. 

DRIED FRUITS 

In many localities, during the winter months, it is diffi- 
cult to obtain fresh fruits; but good varieties of dried 
fruit can be purchased in the markets at any season of 
the year. 

The high temperature to which dried fruit is usually 
subjected in cooking, produces a strong flavor, which few 
people relish. In the process of drying, the water is evapo- 
rated from the fruit; and if this moisture can be restored 
to the fruit before cooking, the original flavor is retained, 
and to a large extent, it will have the appearance of fresh 
fruit. Instead of dried fruit's being cooked several hours, 
as is customary in many homes, it needs to be cooked no 
longer than fresh fruit of the same variety, after the 
water is restored to it. Exception is made of dried prunes, 
which may be simmered a long time. 

STEWED DRIED PRUNES 

Wash thoroughly several times in warm water. Then 
cover with water, and let soak from 12 to 24 hours, or 
until sufficient water has been absorbed to make them soft 
as fresh, ripe fruit. Boil slowly until thoroughly done, 
and little or no sugar will be required. 

STEWED DRIED APRICOTS 

Ripe apricots are never sour unless brought to a high 
temperature in cooking. Wash the fruit thoroughly m 

8 — Food and Cookery 



112 FOOD AND COOKERY 

warm water, and let soak for 24 hours or more, or until 
the fruit is as soft as fresh fruit. If properly soaked, 
apricots will require very little cooking. Heat gradually 
over a slow fire, using the water in which they were soaked, 
but do not let them come quite to the boiling point. Let 
them simmer on the edge of the stove until they are thor- 
oughly scalded, and they will be fairly sweet without sugar. 

STEWED DRIED PEACHES 

Wash thoroughly, cover with warm water, and soak 
overnight. If the fruit was ripe when dried, the skins 
will slip off easily. If there are a few pieces that were 
not ripe, and that are not loosened, use a knife for these. 
After removing the skins, add fresh water, and soak 
several hours, when the peaches will be soft, like fresh 
peaches. Do not boil, but simmer slowly until done. 
Sweeten to taste. 

PUDDINGS 

PRESSED FRUIT PUDDING 

Stewed blackberries or strawberries Grauose biscuit Sugar 
Lay the biscuit in a baking pan in a warm oven until 
thoroughly dried out and lightly browned. Pour the ber- 
ries into a colander. Lay a layer of crumbled biscuit 
in the bottom of a brick-shaped tin, dip enough of the 
juice over the biscuit to moisten it, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar, and cover with a layer of berries about half an 
inch deep. Then repeat, having the berries on top. Set 
the pudding dish inside a larger pan, then put on top of 
the pudding, with a weight, a pan equal in size to that in 
which the pudding is. Let stand and press for several 
hours, or overnight. When ready to serve, cut in squares, 
and serve a teaspoonful of whipped cream on top of each 
serving. 

PRUNE PUDDING 

Soak dried prunes overnight. Cook them for 2 or 3 
hours, with a few slices of lemon added to give them 



FOOD AND COOKERY 113 

flavor. Drain, and save the juice separately. Put the 
prunes through a colander to remove the pits, sweeten with 
sugar if needed, and flavor with vanilla. Trim the crust 
off thinly from a loaf of fruit bread, and cut into slices 
about half an inch thick. Line a granite baking pan with 
the bread, pour over enough juice to soak up the bread, 
and cover with the prune pulp about half an inch deep. 
Repeat the process, leaving the prune pulp for the top. 
Put into the oven until it is barely hot through, so it will 
set. Cool, cut into squares, and serve with a teaspoonful 
of whipped cream on top of each serving. 

PRUNE WHIP 

Vz cup prune pulp White of 1 egg 1 tablespoonful sugar 
A few drops of vanilla 

Prepare prunes the same as for prune pudding. Beat 
the white stiff and dry, add sugar and vanilla, and beat 
again. Then fold in the prune pulp. Serve on a sauce 
dish with a teaspoonful of whipped cream on top. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 

% cup minute tapioca 2 cups boiling water 6 tart apples 
A small slice of lemon peel x k cup sugar 

Wash the tapioca, and drain it well. Add the boiling 
water and the lemon peel, and cook in a double boiler until 
transparent. Pare and quarter the apples, removing the 
cores. Place in a baking pan, sprinkle the sugar over the 
apples, cover, and bake until the apples are nearly tender. 
Pour the cooked tapioca over the fruit, and continue bak- 
ing until done. Then cool. 

STRAWBERRY WHIP 

1 cup strawberries White of 1 egg V2 cup sugar 
1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

Choose well ripened strawberries, wash them, and re- 
move the stems. Put all the ingredients into a bowl, and 
(use level measurements for all increments.) 



114 food and Cookery 

beat with a wire egg whip until light and flufry, which will 
take 20 minutes or more. Pile lightly on a dish, and pour 
a border of crushed fruit or red fruit juice unsweetened 
around the whip on each dish. 

APPLE SNOW 

2 tart apples (% cup after being cooked) Whites of 2 eggs 
Vi cup sugar 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

Steam or boil the apples with just enough water to cook 
them soft. Mash through a fine strainer. Add the sugar 
and the lemon juice. Beat the whites stiff and dry. Fold 
in the cooked apples. Serve on a small dish, with V 2 tea- 
spoonful of red jelly on top. 

GRAHAM FRUIT PUDDING 

2% cups water 6 tablespoonfuls sugar % cup seeded raisins 

V2 cup Graham flour, toasted lightly in the oven 1 slice lemon 

A few grains of salt 

Add the sugar, lemon, raisins, and a few grains of salt 
to the water, and bring to a boil. Add 4 tablespoonfuls of 
cold water to the Graham flour to mix smooth. Let the 
water, sugar, and raisins boil gently until the liquid meas- 
ures 2 cups. Then pour a little of the hot mixture into the 
wetted Graham, and stir. Pour the Graham mixture into 
the boiling liquid, stir smooth, and let simmer for a few 
minutes. Then pour into wetted molds and let cool. Serve 
with cream or lemon sauce. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING 

l 1 /^ cups soaked stale bread 1 cup seedless sultana raisins 

The grated rind of V2 lemon 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

Soak the raisins overnight, drain, and put on a slow fire 
until hot through. Then add the vegetable butter. Have tho 
bread soaked in cold water until soft all the way through, 
and press out lightly. Beat the egg, and mix all the ingre- 
dients, using a silver fork. Put into a thin cloth, leaving 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 115 

a little room to rise, and steam for 1V 2 to 2 hours. Turn 
out on an oiled pie tin, bake for a few minutes, and serve 
with lemon sauce. This last baking may be omitted if 
not convenient. If seeded raisins are used, they should be 
added without soaking. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING 

V 2 cup uncooked white rice 5 cups milk y 3 cup sugar Vanilla flavor 

Wash the rice in several waters, drain, add to the hot 
milk, and cook in a double boiler for 45 minutes. Add the 
sugar and the flavoring, pour into an oiled baking pan, and 
bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the first crust forms, 
stir it down, at the same time stirring the rice; and when 
the rice is thoroughly done, allow the crust to brown, and 
remove from the oven. A few raisins may be added if de- 
sired. 

LEMON SNOW 

% cup water Vz cup sugar 2 tablespoonfuls lenton juice 
2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch White of 1 egg A pinch of salt 

Mix the sugar and the starch thoroughly. Bring the 
water to a boil, stir in the sugar and starch until smooth 
and thick, and let simmer for a few moments. Beat the 
white stiff. Then pour the hot mixture into the beaten 
white in a steady stream, beating as it is being poured in. 
Add the lemon juice and a few grains of salt, and mix. 
Then pour into wetted molds, and let cool. Serve with 
custard sauce. 

HOOVER PUDDING 

% cup cooked oatmeal % cup milk 1 egg Vanilla flavor 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Beat the egg slightly, add the sugar and the vanilla, and 
mix with the milk. Work gradually into the cooked oat- 
meal, pour into an oiled pan, put into a pan of water, 
and bake in a medium oven until just set. Let cool and 
serve. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



116 FOOD AND COOKERY 

RICE CROQUETTES WITH JELLY 

Vz cup unpolished rice, raw Wi cups hot water 

1 tablespoonful vegetable butter A thin slice of lemon peel 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful sugar A few grains of salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly, drain, add the boiling water 
and the lemon peel, and let boil gently until the rice looks 
dry and the moisture is evaporated. Then cover, and let 
steam over a slow fire for 10 minutes. Beat the egg 
slightly, add the sugar and the butter, and mix into the 
rice while hot. Then let cool. When cold, mold into round 
balls about the size of a large hen's egg. Make a dent in 
the top of each, brush over with cream, and bake in an 
oiled pan, to a light brown color. Serve with lemon sauce, 
and a small piece of red jelly on the top. 

APPLE AND RAISIN PUDDING 

2 cups chopped tart apples Vi cup brown sugar % cup hot water 

% cup zwieback crumbs V2 cup raisins Grated lemon rind 
Vegetable butter 

Pare, quarter, and chop the apples, and add a little 
grated lemon rind. Place a layer of chopped apples in an 
oiled baking pan, then a layer of crumbs. Sprinkle with 
brown sugar, small pieces of vegetable butter, and a layer 
of raisins. Repeat the process until the dish is nearly full, 
finishing with crumbs on the top. Sprinkle small bits of 
vegetable butter over the top, pour on the water, and bake 
in a moderate oven until the apples are done. Let cool 
and serve. 

BREAD PUDDING 

IV2 cups stale bread cut into squares 2 cups milk. 1 large egg 

Vz cup sugar A few grains of salt Vegetable butter 

Vanilla flavor 

Spread the bread thinly with butter, cut into small dice, 
and put into a baking pan. Beat the egg and the sugar. 
Add a few grains of salt, the vanilla, and the milk. Mix 
well, pour over the bread, and let stand for an hour. Then 

(L'SE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS. ) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 111 

bake until set. A few seedless raisins added make a nice 
combination. 

BLANCMANGE 

1 cup rich milk 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 1 tablespoonful sugar 
White of 1 egg A few grains of salt Vanilla 

Put the milk into a double boiler, and when boiling hot, 
add the sugar and the salt. Stir in the cornstarch, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk. Cover, and let cook 15 min- 
utes. Beat the white of egg stiff. Then pour the hot mix- 
ture into the beaten white, the same as for lemon snow, 
adding a few drops of vanilla. Turn into wetted molds, 
and serve with cream or fruit sauce. 

STRAWBERRY FLUMMERY 

Use the recipe for blancmange. When cold, dish up in 
glasses, with crushed strawberries poured over it. 

VEGETABLE GELATIN 

Put Vz ounce of vegetable gelatin (agar-agar) to soak 
in warm water for 30 minutes. Drain, and add 2 cups 
boiling water. Let boil gently for about 10 minutes, or 
until it is clear. Strain through a fine strainer, and keep 
warm until ready for use. The jelly should measure 2 
cups. 

ORANGE JELLY 

1 cup orange juice 6 tablespoonfuls lemon juice Vz cup water 
% cup sugar % cup vegetable jelly 

Dissolve the sugar in the fruit juice and water, and 
add the hot jelly. Mix well, pour into wetted molds, and 
let set. 

LEMON JELLY 

Vs cup lemon juice % cup sugar l^cups water 

% cup vegetable jelly 

Mix and mold same as the foregoing. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



118 FOOD AND COOKERY 



BERRY MOLD 



1% cupfuls juice from stewed and sweetened berries % cup sugar 
4 tablespoonfuls lemon juice % cup vegetable jelly 

Mix and mold the same as orange jelly. 

FRUIT JELLY 

Arrange a nice assortment of fresh or cooked fruits, 
well drained, in a glass bowl. Take 1% cups light-colored 
fruit juice, add V± cup lemon juice, }4 cup strawberry or 
loganberry juice, and sweeten to taste. Add % cup vege- 
table jelly, mix well, and pour over the fruit in the dish. 
Let set and serve. 

PIES 

PLAIN PASTRY 

Wz cups sifted pastry flour 6 tablespoonfuls solid vegetable fat 
% teaspoonful salt Scant 5 tablespoonfuls cold water 

Mix the flour and the salt in a bowl. Add the fat, and 
cut into the flour with a silver fork or knife, in order to 
blend. Avoid rubbing the ingredients with the hands, as 
that would make the mixture too oily. Add the water 
slowly, and mix through the dry ingredients with a fork. 
Form lightly and quickly with the hands into a soft dough, 
and lay on a floured board. Use a light motion in handling 
the rolling-pin, and roll from the center outward. 

BEATEN OIL CRUST 

Wz cups sifted pastry flour 6 tablespoonfuls cottonseed or corn oil 
Vs teaspoonful salt 4 tablespoonfuls water 

Mix the flour and the salt in a bowl. Put the oil into 
a small bowl, and add the water in a slow stream, beating 
constantly to emulsify the oil. Pour onto the flour, and 
mix with a spoon, drawing the flour into the wetting from 
the sides to a medium soft dough. Turn out on a floured 
board, and use the same as plain pastry. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 119 

GRANO CRUST 

% cup grano cereal % cup thin cream 

Pour the cream over the grano cereal, and stir until the 
cream is absorbed. Then spread evenly on the bottom and 
sides of pie tin, using a spoon. Have the rim quite thick. 
Bake until done, and add filling. 

CRUST SHELLS 

Roll out either of the above pastries to cover a pie tin. 
Press well down into the tin. Then press off the surplus 
edge around the rim. Prick with a fork on bottom and 
sides to keep the crust from blistering. Bake to a light 
brown. 

APPLE PIE 

Line a pie tin with crust. Sprinkle in the bottom a little 
flour mixed with a little sugar. Fill the plate with sliced 
or chopped tart apples, rounding it up a little. Dust with 
flour. Add one teaspoonful vegetable butter to each pie. 
Sprinkle over about y% cup or less of sugar, according to 
the tartness of the apple and the size of the pie. Run a 
wet brush around on the edge of the crust. Roll out a 
top crust, perforate with fork or knife, and lay on top. 
Press the edges together; trim, and mark by pressing the 
teeth of a table fork down on the rim of the crust all the 
way around. Brush over with cream or milk, and bake 
in a medium oven. 

PRUNE PIE 

Remove the stones from cooked prunes slightly sweet- 
ened. Roll out bottom crust as for apple pie. Add the 
stoned prunes, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful 
vegetable butter, and % cup sugar or more. Cover with 
top crust, and bake the same as apple pie. 

STRAWBERRY PIE NO. 1 

Wash and stem ripe strawberries. Roll them in pow- 
dered sugar, and fill a crust shell. Cover with whipped 
cream, cut, and serve. 

(use level measurements for all increments.) 



120 FOOD AND COOKERY 

STRAWBERRY PIE NO. 2 

Fill a crust shell with strawberry whip, as given in 
recipe on page 113. Cut and serve. 

RAISIN PIE 

Wz cups seedless sultana raisins 2 cups water 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 1 scant tablespoonful cornstarch 

1 teaspoonful vegetable butter V 3 cup sugar 

Wash the raisins, and soak overnight. Bring to a boil. 
Then sift the sugar and the starch together thoroughly, 
add to the raisins, and let boil for 10 minutes. Add a 
pinch of salt, and let cool. Line a large pie tin with crust, 
add raisins, lemon juice, and butter, cover with a top crust, 
and bake the same as apple pie. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1*4 cups canned pumpkin 1 cup milk 1 egg Vs cup sugar 

1 tablespoonful molasses 1 tablespoonful light browned flour 

1 teaspoonful melted vegetable butter or a little cream 

Vanilla flavoring A few grains of salt 

Beat the egg. Add the molasses, salt, cream or butter, 
and the sugar mixed with the flour. Beat well. Add the 
pumpkin, and mix well. Then stir in the milk and a little 
flavoring; and when thoroughly mixed, pour into a large 
pie tin that has been lined with pie crust, and bake until 
set. If one tablespoonful cornstarch is sifted with the 
sugar, the egg may be omitted, if desired. 

PUMPKIN PIE WITHOUT EGGS 

l 1 /^ cups cooked pumpkin Scant V2 cup sugar 

1 tablespoonful molasses 4 tablespoonfuls cream roast flour 

IV2 cups hot milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla flavor Vg teaspoonful salt 

Mix the sugar with the browned flour, and add to the 
pumpkin. Then combine all ingredients, and bake the 
same as the preceding recipe. 

LEMON PIE 

1 large cup sugar 1% cups water 4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch 

1 egg Grated rind of 1 lemon 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

% teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

Sift the sugar and the starch together into a granite 
saucepan, pour the boiling water over these while stirring, 
(USE level, measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 121 

and let boil until thick and clear. Separate the yolk from 
the white, beat the yolk, and stir a little of the hot mixture 
into it. Then stir the yolk into the hot mixture, stirring 
briskly. Set off the stove, and add lemon rind, butter, 
salt, and lemon juice. Mix, and pour into a crust shell. 
Make a meringue of the beaten white of egg, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, and a few drops of lemon flavor. Spread 
over the pie, and brown lightly. 

CAKES 

GENERAL RULES 

1. Sift the flour once, before measuring. 

2. Line the bottom of tins with manila paper, or oil 
the tins and dust them lightly with flour. Turn them over 
and tap them against the flour board to shake out all sur- 
plus flour. 

3. Use accurate measurements. 

4. Have the oven heated and the drafts closed. 

5. Remove the cake from the oven as soon as it is done. 
Longer cooking dries it out, To test it, touch gently with 
the finger when about done. If it does not respond to a 
light pressure of the finger, close the oven gently, and let 
bake until there is a slight spring in the crust when 
pressed gently with the finger. Use a toothpick for test- 
ing a loaf cake. Leave cake in tins for 10 minutes after 
baking. 

LAYER CAKE 

4 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice 1 scant cup granulated sugar 

1 tablespoonful water 1 Vs cups sifted pastry flour 

3 tablespoonfuls melted vegetable butter A few grains of salt 

Vanilla flavor 

Break the eggs whole into a round-bottomed mixing 

bowl, 3-quart or 4-quart size. Add the water, lemon juice, 

sugar, and a few grains of salt. Set the bowl into a pan 

of boiling water on the table, having the water about 2 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



122 FOOD AND COOKERY 

inches deep, and beat quickly until the mixture is foamy 
and blood warm, or a little more. Then remove from the 
water, set on the table, and beat until cold, and so light 
that the batter will pile as it runs from the egg whip. Add 
the flavoring, and mix. Then sift half of the flour over 
the batter, and fold in lightly. Sprinkle the melted butter 
over the mixture, and fold in with a few careful strokes. 
Sift the remainder of the flour over the batter and fold in 
lightly. Then pour into 2 paper-lined cake tins, and bake 
in a medium oven from 10 to 12 minutes. 

LOAF CAKE 

2 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls refined cottonseed oil 3 tablespoonfuls water 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice l A teaspoonful salt 

V2 teaspoonful vanilla flavor % cup sugar V 3 cup cornstarch 

1 cup sifted pastry flour 

Pour the water slowly into the oil, beating constantly. 
Then add the lemon juice likewise, in order to emulsify 
the oil. Separate the eggs. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
to the yolks and the rest to the emulsified oil. Beat the 
yolks and sugar, and add to the oil mixture. Add the 
salt and the flavoring, then the starch and the flour, and 
stir smooth. Beat the whites stiff, pour the batter into 
the whites, and mix lightly, using the folding motion. 
Line the bottom of a pan with manila paper, and pour in 
the mixture. Bake in a medium slow oven for about 30 
minutes, or until done. When cool, cover with plain icing. 

AVHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE 

Whites of 4 eggs V2 cup sifted pastry flour V2 cup sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice A few grains of salt 

x /4 teaspoonful each of lemon and vanilla flavor 

Measure out all the ingredients before commencing to 
put the cake together. Sift the flour and the sugar four 
times separately. Add a few grains of salt to the whites, 
and beat until foamy, but not stiff. Add the lemon juice 
and the flavoring, and sift in the sugar slowly, beating 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 123 

constantly. Use care not to make the mixture stiff. Sift 
the flour over slowly, and mix, using the folding motion. 
Bake in an unbuttered pan 20 minutes or more, having a 
small pan of hot water under the cake while baking. When 
done, turn upside down on a rack, and leave in the pan 
until cold. Cover with plain icing. 

JELLY ROLL 

Line a baking pan with manila paper. Spread layer 
cake mixture about V2 inch deep on the paper, and bake 
on the top grate in a quick oven. Lay a sheet of manila 
paper on the table, and sprinkle lightly with sugar. Then 
as soon as the cake is done, turn bottom side up on the 
sugared paper, and carefully remove the paper from the 
bottom of the cake. Spread the cake with red jelly. Then 
take hold of the edge of the paper with the fingers, and 
roll the cake into a roll with the sugared paper around 
to hold it together until cold. 

LADY FINGERS 

1 cup sifted pastry flour V-> cup sugar 3 egg yolks 3 whole eggs 
Lemon flavor A few grains of salt 

Put the yolks and the whole eggs into a round-bottomed 

bowl, and set into a pan of boiling water, the same as for 

layer cake, and beat quickly until the mixture is blood 

warm or a little more. Then set the bowl on the table, 

and continue beating rapidly until the mixture is cold, 

and so thick that it will pile nicely when dropped from a 

spoon or a batter whip. Add the flavor, sift the flour 

again over the batter, and fold in lightly with a large 

spoon. Put into a pastry bag with a lady finger tube, and 

press out on a paper-lined pan, about Wz inches in length, 

and about the size of a pencil or a crayon, leaving space 

between. Dust over thickly with powdered sugar, and 

bake on the top grate in a quick oven, to a light brown 

color. When they are cooled off, turn the paper upside 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



124 FOOD AND COOKERY 

down on the table, and wet the paper with cold water on 
the bottom side. Turn right side up again, and let rest 
about 2 minutes. Then remove the cakes, and stick them 
together. 

ICINGS AND FILLINGS 

BOILED FROSTING 

% cup sugar % cup water White of 1 egg Flavor 
Dissolve the sugar in the water, and continue to stir 
until it boils. Then let boil undisturbed until a long, hair- 
like thread will blow from a spoon dipped in the sirup and 
lifted. Pour it in a slow stream into the beaten white, 
beating as it is being poured in. Add flavoring, and beat 
until light and creamy, and cold enough to spread on cake. 

PLAIN ICING 

Add confectioner's sugar (powdered sugar) to a small 
amount of light-colored fruit juice, — pineapple, pear and 
lemon, or lemon juice and water. Stir in enough sifted 
sugar to form a consistency to spread on cake. This icing 
will not dry out as quickly as boiled icing, and it forms a 
crust over the surface very readily. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING 

For lettering and ornamenting a cake, use the following : 
Beat one white of egg until frothy but not stiff. Add 
sifted powdered sugar gradually, beating constantly un- 
til so thick that it will not run on a plate. Make a small 
funnel of a good grade manila paper. Put a teaspoonful 
of the frosting into the funnel, cut a little piece off the 
point of the funnel, and press out the sugar in the form of 
letters and simple decorations. In making roses and 
leaves for a decoration, the frosting must be stiff enough 
to hold up when pressed, out, to retain the shape of leaves, 
etc. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 125 

STRAWBERRY FILLING 

1 cup crushed strawbei-ries V2 cup heavy cream Sugar to taste 

Whip the cream, and fold in the sweetened and crushed 
berries. Spread between cakes. 

ORANGE FILLING 

V 2 cup orange juice Grated rind of V 2 orange 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 1 teaspoonful vegetable butter 

V2 cup sugar 2 tablespoonfuls flour A few grains salt 1 egg yolk 

Mix the flour and the sugar together. Add a little of 
the juices to the flour and sugar, and stir smooth. Add 
the yolk, slightly beaten, a few grains of salt, and the 
butter, and mix. Add the orange rind and the rest of the 
juices, and heat gradually, stirring constantly until it 
thickens. Then cool, and spread between layers. This 
filling must not be cooked more than necessary to thicken, 
or the acid will cut the starch and thin the mixture. 

LEMON FILLING 

Juice and rind of 1 large lemon 1 cup powdered sugar 
2 eggs A pinch of salt 

Beat the eggs. Add the lemon juice, salt, rind, and 
sugar. Stir over the fire until it thickens. Let cool, and 
spread between layers. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

Salads, composed chiefly of green, tender vegetables, or 
fruits and nuts, and served with a dressing, are valuable 
as a means of supplying fat. They are also valuable for 
their mineral salts. When carefully prepared and daintily 
served, salads are among the most appetizing adjuncts of 
a meal, and owe much of their food value to this very 
attractiveness. 

Plain salads that require oil and lemon juice for dress- 
ing should not be prepared until the moment they are 
wanted. Should they be mixed long before they are served, 
the lettuce will be found flabby, and the dressing watery 
and insipid. 

Garnishing or decorating salads is important, inasmuch 
as the most deliciously blended salad will not be appreci- 
ated unless it is attractive in appearance. Wild flowers 
neatly arranged with alternate tufts of green are pretty 
during summer. In cold weather, garnish with pretty 
designs cut from beets, turnips, radishes, carrots, etc. 

DRESSINGS 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Yolk of 1 egg 1% tablespoonfuls lemon juice % teaspoonful salt 
1 cup olive or refined cottonseed oil 

Beat the yolk. Add the oil drop by drop to begin with, 
then increase as it gets started, adding now and then a 
little lemon juice to thin the dressing to proper consistency. 
Add salt last, as it has a tendency to "break" the mayon- 
naise when added to the yolk at the beginning. 

BOILED DRESSING 

Vs cup cream V 2 teaspoonful cornstarch 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 
2 teaspoonfuls vegetable butter 1 egg yolk Salt to taste 

Heat the cream in a double boiler. Rub the starch 
smooth with a little cold milk, and stir into the hot cream. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 

(126) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 127 

Cover, and let cook for 10 minutes. Beat the yolk, add 
the butter and lemon juice, and mix well. Pour the hot 
cream gradually into the yolk mixture, stirring as it is 
being poured in. Then return to the fire, and continue 
stirring until of the right thickness. Salt to taste, and 
let cool. 

CREAM MAYONNAISE 

Whip V± cup heavy cream slightly. Add to the boiled 
dressing and an additional spoonful of lemon juice. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

A few grains of salt \ x k tablespoonfuls olive or cottonseed oil 

Scant tablespoonful lemon juice V2 teaspoonful grated onion 

Dissolve the salt in the oil with a spoon. Add the in- 
gredients in the order given, and beat with a spoon to 
emulsify the liquids. Use immediately. 

CREAM DRESSING 

V2 cup thick cream 3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

1 tablespoonful sugar Salt 

Whip the cream until quite thick but not stiff. Then 
add sugar, salt, and lemon juice, and serve. 

GOLDEN FRCIT SAUCE 

% cup pineapple juice or orange juice 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cornstarch 

1 egg yolk A few grains of salt 

Put the juices into a small saucepan, and bring to a boil. 
Mix the starch with the sugar, and add enough of the fruit 
juice to mix smooth. Beat the yolk slightly, and add to 
the sugar and starch mixture. Then pour in gradually 
the hot liquid, stirring as it is being poured in. Stir on 
the edge of the stove until it thickens, but do not boil, or 
the acid will neutralize the starch. Add a few grains of 
salt, and let cool. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 

9 — Food and Cookery 



128 FOOD AND COOKERY 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

LETTUCE AND TOMATO SALAD 

Arrange lettuce leaves on a plate. Have a ripe tomato 
peeled and cooled. Lay on lettuce leaves. Run a sharp 
knife across the middle of the tomato, cutting it nearly in 
two, then crosswise, so that the four quarters fall back, 
yet hold together underneath. Drop a teaspoonful of salad 
dressing into the center of the tomato, and serve. 

POINSETTIA TOMATO 

Select a small ripe tomato, wash, and wipe with a cloth. 
With a sharp-pointed knife, cut through the skin, from 
the stem end, across the tomato, dividing the skin into 
about 8 parts, so as to resemble poinsettia leaves. Run the 
blade of a penknife under each leaf, and pull it back on 
the plate, until all the leaves lie on the plate, and attached 
to the tomato stem. Cut the tomato crosswise the same 
as in the previous recipe, and serve with mayonnaise. 

STUFFED TOMATO 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes. Pour it off again 
immediately, and replace with cold water. Remove the 
skins. Take medium small tomatoes, hollow out care- 
fully, and fill the cavity with finely diced celery and cu- 
cumber, seasoned with grated onion and salad dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaf. 

TOMATO EN SURPRISE 

Scald and peel a tomato. Cut off a liberal slice from the 
blossom end, which must be kept for covering. Hollow out 
the center of the tomato, and turn upside down in a dish 
to drain. Cut cooked asparagus tips into half-inch lengths, 
season with mayonnaise, and refill the cavity in the tomato. 
Cover with the slice of tomato, and serve on lettuce leaf. 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 129 

POTATO SALAD 

Cold boiled potato Chopped or grated onion Hard-boiled egg 
Chopped parsley Boiled dressing 

Peel the potatoes, quarter lengthwise, and slice very 
thin. Add chopped onion and parsley, sprinkle with salt, 
and season with boiled dressing. To dish up, pile on a 
platter or a plate in oblong shape, having the salad piled 
high and narrow, leaving the sides of the plate vacant for 
garnitures. Garnish with lettuce, and hard-boiled egg cut 
into quarters, at each side, and sliced boiled beet cut into 
fancy shapes, at each end of salad and on top. 

ITALIAN SALAD 

1 cup cooked macaroni cut into small rings Y2 cup diced celery 

% cup finely diced carrot Vz cup cooked green peas 

2 teaspoonfuls grated onion Mayonnaise or boiled dressing 

Mix all ingredients, season with dressing, and serve on 
lettuce leaf. 

NUT AND CELERY SALAD 

Yz cup diced nut loaf or nuttose V2 cup diced celery 

Put the diced nut food into an oiled pie tin, and brown 
lightly in the oven, stirring often to prevent scorching. 
Add to the diced celery, and season with boiled dressing 
and a little chopped or grated onion. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

MACEDOINE SALAD 

V2 cup diced boiled potatoes *4 cup diced boiled carrots 

M cup diced boiled turnips Vz cup green peas 

1 teaspoonful grated onion 

Mix all ingredients, and season with boiled dressing. 

BEAN SALAD 

V2 cup cold boiled beans V2 cup diced celery V 2 cup diced lettuce 
1 teaspoonful grated onion 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



130 FOOD AND COOKERY 

EGG SALAD 

Dice hard-boiled eggs, season with boiled dressing, serve 
on a bed of lettuce, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. 

COLD SLAW 

Select crisp, tender cabbage. Cut through lengthwise, 
then through each half, and remove the solid part. Shred 
very fine with a sharp knife. Season with grated or 
chopped onion, salt, and lemon juice, or mix with cream 
dressing or cream mayonnaise. 

BEET AND EGG 

% cup diced boiled beets 1 hard-boiled egg diced 

1 teaspoonful chopped onion 

Mix all ingredients, and season with mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing. 

WATER LILY SALAD 

Cut a hard-boiled egg through lengthwise. Mash half 
of the yolk through a strainer. Put the other half yolk 
into a dish, and mash up with a fork, adding enough boiled 
dressing to season well. Cut each half of the cooked white 
into three pieces lengthwise, to represent petals. Arrange 
on a plate of lettuce. Place a spoonful of the yolk mixture 
in the center, sprinkle the crumbed yolk over the salad, 
and serve. 

COMBINATION SALAD 

Sliced tomato Sliced cucumber Sliced green onion Sliced radishes 
Lettuce French dressing 

Pare the vegetables, slice very thin, and put into a bowl. 
Tear the lettuce into large pieces, add to the vegetables, 
and set on ice if available. Just before serving, pour over 
enough French dressing to season, using it scantily. 

CUCUMBER SALAD 

% cup sliced cucumber Vz cup thinly sliced boiled potato 

1 tablespoonful chopped sweet bell peppers 1 teaspoonful grated onion 

Pare the cucumbers, slice thin, and put into ice water 
slightly salted, for half an hour. Then drain, and wring 
(use level measurements for all increments.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 131 

out in cloth. Mix all ingredients, season with a small 
quantity of French dressing, and serve on lettuce leaf. 

SWEET POTATO SALAD 

1 cup diced boiled sweet potatoes 2 stalks crisp celery cut into dice 

2 teaspoonfuls each of chopped onion and sweet bell pepper 

Chopped parsley 

Mix all ingredients, and season with French dressing 
the same as the above. 

SLICED BEETS IN LEMON 

1 cup water Vz cup lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
1 teaspoonful salt 1 bay leaf Boiled beets 

Add the salt, sugar, and lemon juice to the water, and 
bring to a boil. Slice the cooked beets into the hot liquid, 
add the bay leaf, cover with a plate so as to keep the beets 
submerged in the liquid, and let cool. A hard-boiled egg 
may be put whole into the bowl with the sliced beets, and 
served with a sprig of green leaves stuck into one end for 
garniture, if desired. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

Use canned or freshly cooked string beans. Drain well, 
and season with chopped onion and French dressing. 

FRUIT SALADS 

STIFFED DATE SALAD 

Remove the pits from washed dates, refill each with a 
half walnut meat, and press together. Put into a salad 
bowl, and wet with lemon juice. Let stand 15 minutes, 
then serve on lettuce leaf. 

FRUIT BASKET 

Select medium sized, well colored oranges. Hold an 
orange between the thumb and the first finger, letting the 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



132 FOOD AND COOKERY 

side of the orange rest on the table. With a small, pointed 
knife, start in the middle of the orange, and run the blade 
about 2 inches into the center, then again and again, all 
the way around, in such a manner that the orange will 
part in two halves, leaving the edge ruffled with small 
points of peel, like the teeth of a coarse saw. Run the 
point of the knife around each half, near the peel. Then 
with a teaspoon, dip out the fruit in one piece. Cut 
the orange center into small cubes, to which add equal 
quantities of diced banana and pineapple, and a few ripe 
strawberries if available. Add fruit sauce to season, and 
fill the orange shells, having them well rounded with fruit. 
Serve on a white plate, with three small orange leaves or 
lettuce leaf for garniture. 

FRUITS AND NUTS 

V2 cup diced oranges V2 cup diced bananas Vz cup diced pineapple 
Chopped walnuts 

Mix the fruits, and season with fruit sauce. Dish up 
on a lettuce leaf, and sprinkle chopped walnuts over the 
top. 

CROWN PRINCE SALAD 

Line a small plate with crisp lettuce. Take slices of 
orange, and dispose around the side of the dish. Fill in 
with sliced banana, pineapple cut into large pieces, orange 
cut likewise, and ripe strawberries. Pile the fruit high, 
and pipe whipped cream on top and sides with pastry bag, 
to represent a crown. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Cut equal quantities of orange, pineapple, banana, and 
mellow apple into small dice. Season with fruit sauce or 
cream mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce leaf. A few ripe 
strawberries when in season improve the combination. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 133 



WALDORF SALAD 



% cup finely diced apples Vz cup diced celery Chopped walnuts 
Cream mayonnaise dressing 

Mix the apples with the dressing first, to keep them from 
turning dark. Mix all the ingredients, adding the walnuts 
just before serving, so as to avoid turning the salad a 
dark color. Serve on lettuce leaf, with a bit of dressing on 
the top. 

RIBBON APPLE SALAD 

Select small, fine-grained red apples. Core and pare, 
leaving the skin in the shape of a ring near the stem end 
of the apple. Remove some of the inner portion of the 
apple, being careful not to break the shell. Fill the cavity 
with equal quantities of finely diced celery and apple, sea- 
soned with cream mayonnaise. Put a small funnel of crisp 
lettuce in the top of the apple, into which drop a teaspoon- 
ful of dressing. Serve on apple leaves or lettuce leaf. 

RAISIN SALAD 

Vi cup seeded raisins, sliced % cup finely diced apple 

Prepare the raisins first, then the apples. Mix, and sea- 
son with cream mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce 
leaf. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



TOASTS AND BREAKFAST 
DISHES 

Toasts are especially nice for breakfast. They are a 
light food, yet appetizing and nourishing. 

STRAWBERRY TOAST 

Bring fresh strawberries to the boiling point with enough 
sugar to sweeten. When done, dip a piece of zwieback 
into the juice to soften, lay the toast on a platter, and 
cover with strawberries. Pour a spoonful of juice over all, 
and serve. The juice may be thickened a little with corn- 
starch if desired, before dishing up. 

CREAM TOAST 

Moisten zwieback in hot thin cream, lay on platter, pour 
a spoonful more of cream over, and serve. 

PRUNE TOAST 

Rub well cooked prunes through a fine colander. Add 
enough of the prune juice to make it of the consistency to 
spread on toast and not run off. Reheat, and dip a slice of 
zwieback in hot milk or prune juice to soften, lay on a 
platter, and cover with the prune pulp. 

CREAM PEAS ON TOAST 

% cup green pea pulp *4 cup thin cream Salt to taste 

Bring the peas to a boil, drain off the liquid, and mash 
the peas through a colander, having them separate from 
the liquid in which they were cooked. Add the hot cream 
and salt to taste. Reheat, dip a piece of zwieback in hot 
milk to soften, lay on a platter, and cover with cream peas, 
which should be thick enough not to run off. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 

(134) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 135 

SUL.TANA TOAST 

Dip toasted triscuit or zwieback into hot cream, lay on 
a platter, cover with a large spoonful of stewed raisins, 
and place a spoonful of whipped cream on top if available. 

WALNUT CREAM TOAST 

1 cup hot milk 1V 2 tablespoonfuls vegetable butter Chopped walnuts 

1 Vz tablespoonfuls cream roast flour Salt to taste 

Rub the flour and the butter together in a small sauce- 
pan. Add % cup milk, and stir smooth. Add the remain- 
der of the milk, and boil up. Salt to taste. Dip a slice 
of zwieback into hot milk to soften, lay on a platter, and 
spread over with a spoonful of cream sauce. Sprinkle 
finely chopped walnuts over the cream toast, and serve 
immediately. 

CREAM TOMATO TOAST 

Dip a slice of zwieback in hot milk or tomato juice, lay 
on a platter, and cover with a spoonful of cream tomato 
sauce. 

NUT AND POTATO HASH 

2 cups diced cold boiled potatoes V2 cup hot milk 

1*4 tablespoonfuls chopped onion IVz tablespoonfuls vegetable butter 

V2 cup diced nut cero or cold baked dressing cut into dice 

1 tablespoonful light browned flour Salt A sprinkle of sage 

Put 1 tablespoonful of butter, the onion, and the sage 
into a small saucepan, and stir over the fire for a few 
moments. Add the browned flour, then a small quantity of 
the milk, and stir smooth. Add the rest of the milk, and 
boil up. Salt to taste, and add the nut cero to the gravy. 
Sprinkle the potatoes with a little salt. Then pour over 
them the hot mixture, and mix lightly. Put into an oiled 
baking pan, sprinkle a little cream or small bits of vege- 
table butter over the top, and bake to a light brown color. 
Vegetable stock or hot water may be used instead of milk 
if desired, a little rich cream being added to the roux. 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



136 FOOD AND COOKERY 



MASHED POTATO CAKES 



Take the duchess potato mixture, page 108, roll into 
small, round cakes, mark on top with a knife, lay in an 
oiled baking pan, brush over with cream, and bake on the 
top grate of a hot oven, to a nice brown. 

CREAMED POTATO 

2 cups chopped cold boiled potatoes Salt 

1 cup cream or 1 tablespoonful vegetable butter 

added to 1 cup milk 

Put the cream, or the milk and butter, on the fire, and 
when it comes to a boil, add the potatoes, with salt to taste. 
Let them simmer, stirring now and then until they are 
creamy and begin to thicken. Then put them on the top 
grate of a medium oven to brown lightly. 

SCRAMBLED EGG WITH NEW TOMATO 

Scald and peel two medium sized ripe tomatoes, cut them 
into quarters, and put on the stove in a small covered 
saucepan. Add a little salt, and bring to a good boil. Turn 
them into a colander, and drain off the juice. Then add 
1 teaspoonful vegetable butter, and reheat. Have a skillet 
oiled. When hot, break in 2 eggs. Stir quickly, so they 
will cook evenly. When they are soft cooked, add the 
tomatoes, mix lightly, and serve on toast. 

PLAIN OMELET 

1 egg 1 tablespoonful milk Salt 

Beat the yolk until thick, add the milk, and mix well. 
Add a few grains of salt to the white, and beat until stiff. 
Fold the yolk mixture into the white, and turn into a hot 
oiled frying pan. Put into the oven, and bake until barely 
set. Then, while it is still in the pan, turn one half of 
the omelet over the other half by slipping a knife under 
one side and turning it over the other section. Invert on 
a hot platter, and serve at once. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 137 



COOKED GRAINS 



General Rules for Cooking Grains. — Add salt to boiling 
water in the inside part of a double boiler. Add the dry 
grains slowly to the boiling water, stirring constantly. 
Let boil undisturbed until the cereal begins to thicken. 
Then put on the cover, and set into the outside part of the 
double boiler, which should be filled a third full of boiling 
water. Cook slowly, covered, for 3 hours or more, and 
keep up the quantity of water in the outside boiler if this 
should boil away. Cereal cooked in the fireless cooker, of 
course, needs no further attention after the compartment 
is covered. Dates or steamed raisins lightly stirred in, a 
few minutes before the cereal is removed from the fire, 
make a pleasing variety. 

ROLLED OATS 

% cup rolled oats 2 cups boiling water V2 teaspoonful salt 

Follow general rules for cooking grains, as given above. 

CORN MEAL MUSH 

V2 cup corn meal lightly toasted in the oven 
1% cups boiling water. *4 teaspoonful salt 

Follow directions, and cook the same as rolled oats. 

STEAMED NATURAL RICE 

V2, cup natural brown rice 1% cups hot water 

Wash the rice in several waters, drain, add the boiling 
water, and let boil until the water is evaporated and the 
rice looks dry. Then cover, let stand on the edge of the 
stove to steam for 15 minutes, and serve. 

CREAMED RICE 

Add sufficient hot cream, or milk and a little butter, to 
the above cooked rice to make it creamy, but not too soft. 
Reheat and serve. 

(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



138 FOOD AND COOKERY 

BANANA RICE 

Slice two bananas into the above hot creamed rice. 
Cover, let stand five minutes, and serve. 

STEAMED WHEAT 

1 cup cleaned wheat 5 cups hot water \i teaspoonful salt 

Wash the wheat in several waters, and let soak over- 
night. Drain, add the salt and the hot water, and let boil 
over the fire for half an hour. Then set into a fireless on 
a hot stone overnight. In the absence of a fireless, cook 
'he same as steamed rice. 

STEAMED PEARL BARLEY 

V2 cup pearl barley 2V 2 cups hot water Yi teaspoonful salt 

Soak the barley in cold water overnight, drain, add the 
hot water and the salt, and cook the same as for steamed 
wheat. 

GRANO CEREAL WITH DATES 

1 cup boiling water Y2 cup grano cereal 6 dates 
A few grains of salt 

Sprinkle the cereal into the boiling water, and stir until 
thick. Add the stoned and quartered dates, mix, and serve 
with cream. 

BROWNED RICE 

Y2 cup natural rice 1% cups boiling water 

Put the rice into a small frying pan, and stir over the 
fire until a very light brown color. Add the boiling water, 
and cook the same as for steamed natural rice. 

PARCHED CORN GRITS 

Parch the corn the same as directed in the recipe on 
page 53, and grind through a coarse mill. Put 3^ cups 
of water into a small pail, add V2 teaspoonful salt, and 
bring to a boil. Sprinkle into this boiling water 1 cupful 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 139 

of the grits. Let boil over the fire for 15 minutes. Then 
set on a hot stone in a fireless overnight. 

FETER1TA GRITS 

Feterita is one of the newest grain crops introduced 
into America, having been brought to America through the 
agency of the Department of Agriculture. Feterita grows 
readily in the southwest, owing to its drouth-resisting 
qualities. It resembles the Kafir corn and milo maize, but 
is somewhat softer, and for this reason, gives better satis- 
faction in cooking. Analysis shows that feterita closely 
resembles corn in composition, and has a nutritive value 
practically as high as has corn. For breakfast cereal, 
prepare and cook as follows: 

Put into a baking pan, and toast lightly, to set the 
kernel. Grind through a coarse mill, and use the same 
proportion of the grain and the water, and cook in the 
same manner, as for parched corn grits. 



SANDWICHES 

In a family where lunches have to be put up, it is a 
very important matter to know how these lunches may be 
prepared in a wholesome manner. For making sandwiches, 
the bread should be reasonably fresh, should be cut thin 
and even, and spread scantily with butter. Then spread 
filling on one slice, place the other slice over, and cut 
into desired size and style. 

NUT AND JELLY 

Add chopped walnuts to jelly, and spread on buttered 
bread. 

NUT BUTTER AND OLIVE 

Dissolve the nut butter with cold water to thick cream. 
Add chopped olives. Serve a leaf of lettuce and mayon- 
naise between slices if desired. 

NUT AND TOMATO 

Mash equal parts of nuttolene and tomato to a paste 
with a fork. Season. Serve with lettuce leaf and mayon- 
naise. 

EGG SANDWICH 

Chop hard-boiled eggs very fine, season with mayon- 
naise, and serve with lettuce leaf. 

BEAN SANDWICH 

Spread bean puree on buttered bread, using lettuce and 
mayonnaise dressing. 

TOMATO SANDWICH 

Peel tomatoes, slice thin, and serve with mayonnaise. 

EGG AND TOMATO 

Scramble eggs soft. Add an equal quantity of stewed, 
drained tomatoes. Mix well, let cool, and use. 

(140) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 141 

DATE AND NUT 

Grind walnuts and dates through a mill. Season with 
lemon juice. 

HONEY AND NUT 

Use V2 cup honey, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Add 
chopped walnuts to make stiff paste. 

RAISIN SANDWICH 

Chop Vz cup seeded raisins and V 2 cup walnuts very 
fine. Add IV* tablespoonfuls mayonnaise and V2 teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice. Mix into paste, and spread on thinly but- 
tered bread. 

NUT AND FRUIT 

Grind equal parts or steamed dried figs and seeded rai- 
sins together through a mill or chop fine. Add enough 
chopped walnuts to spread nicely on bread. Season with 
lemon juice. 

LEGUME SANDWICH 

Slice cold "savory vegetable loaf" (page 85) into thin 
slices. Lay on slices of buttered bread. Cover with a 
lettuce leaf and salad dressing if available. Cut and serve. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICH 

Slice cucumbers thin. Add grated onion and salt to 
taste. Butter the bread thinly. Fill between slices with 
cucumber, lettuce leaf, and mayonnaise or salad dressing. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK 

Invalid cookery deals with the preparation of foods that 
will sustain life with as little demand as possible upon the 
digestion, and also the selection of those foods which will 
furnish material for rebuilding and repairing waste, again 
without laying too much burden on the digestion. 

While the invalid's meal should generally be of a simple 
nature, there should be the greatest daintiness in serving 
it, and an effort should be made to create a desire for 
food to replace the distaste that often exists. 

The tray should be covered with spotless linen, should be 
carefully laid, and should not have the appearance of be- 
ing overcrowded. Appearance, quantity, and temperature 
must all be considered when the tray is prepared, as well as 
the ease of eating. 

The temperature of the food has a marked influence on 
digestion. Therefore a few general rules for serving food 
to the sick may be of value, as follows : 

1. Serve hot dishes as hot as possible, and cold dishes 
as cold as consistent with digestion. 

2. If food must be carried some distance to a patient, 
devise means of keeping it hot en route. 

3. Always heat cups and plates before using them to 
serve any hot food. 

4. Bring to the invalid, at each meal, only the quantity 
that is likely to be eaten, so far as can be judged. A large 
amount may so discourage a faint appetite that nothing 
will be eaten. 

5. Nutritive Value. — The nurse should be a student of 
the classification of foods, their fuel value and digestibility, 
thus being able to regulate the needed rations for her 
patients. 

6. So far as possible, let the element of pleasant surprise 
enter into the planning of the invalid's meal. The break- 
er 



FOOD AND COOKERY 143 

fast tray should be made as attractive as possible. A few 
bright flowers will make it look cheery and inviting. 

The diet prescribed for patients who are very ill is 
usually altogether liquid, while a less rigid diet is known 
as "light diet"; and the food for convalescents includes 
the most nourishing and easily digestible foods to be found. 

Gruels, in which the starches are prepared by long, 
slow, and very thorough cooking, should be carefully sea- 
soned, and of a consistency to be taken through a siphon. 

OATMEAL. GRUEL 

Vt cup oatmeal 2 cups water A few grains of salt 

Cream or milk if desired 

Sprinkle the oatmeal into the boiling water, and let it 
continue to boil until it begins to thicken slightly. Then 
set into a double boiler, and let cook for 2 hours. Strain 
through a fine strainer, and dilute it with a little hot water 
if it is too thick. Reheat, and season with cream if de- 
sired. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL 

3 tablespoonfuls corn meal 2 cups boiling water A few grains of salt 

Prepare and finish the same as for oat gruel. 

GLUTEN GRUEL 

1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoonfuls gluten meal A few grains of salt 

Sift the gluten slowly into the boiling water, stirring 
briskly to avoid having it form into lumps. Let it boil 
until of the desired thickness. A little cream may be 
added before serving, if desired. 

GRANOSE GRUEL 

1 granose biscuit 1 % cups boiling water A few grains of salt 
Cook, strain, and serve the same as gluten gruel. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 

10 — Food and Cookery 



144 FOOD AND COOKERY 

RICE WATER 

2 tablespoonfuls rice 2 cups cold water A few grains of salt 
Cream or milk if desired 

Wash the rice, and put into the cold water. Heat 
gradually to the boiling point, and let it continue to cook 
until the rice is soft. Strain. Reheat the rice water. Add 
a little milk or cream if desired. 

BARLEY AVATER 

3 tablespoonfuls barley 1 quart cold water 

Wash the barley, and let it soak overnight. Change the 
water and rinse thoroughly. Add 1 quart of water, and 
let it cook until the liquid measures 1 cupful. Serve plain, 
or seasoned with a few grains of salt and a little cream 
if desired. 

TOAST WATER 

2 slices stale bread 1 cup boiling water 

Cut bread into %-inch slices, and remove the crusts. 
Put into a baking pan, and bake in a slow oven until 
thoroughly dried and well browned. Break into pieces, 
add water, cover, and let stand 1 hour. 

FLAXSEED TEA 

M cup flaxseed 2 cups boiling water 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

Wash the flaxseed in cold water. Drain well. Add 
boiling water, and let boil gently for 1 hour. Strain, add 
lemon juice and a little sugar if desired, and serve. 

HOT MALTED MILK 

1 heaping tablespoonful malted milk 1 cup water A few grains of salt 

First add a little warm water to malted milk to make 
a smooth paste. Add boiling water, beat well, and serve. 

(USE LEVEL MEASUREMENTS FOR ALL INGREDIENTS.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 145 

ALBUMENIZED WATER 

White of 1 egg V2 cup water 

Stir the white of the egg (using a silver fork), that the 
albumen may easily dissolve as the water is added gradu- 
ally. Add a few grains of salt, strain, and serve. 

LEMON ALBUMEN 

White of 1 egg 1 tablespoonful lemon juice Chipped ice 
% glass water 

Put the white of the egg and a little chipped ice into 
a glass. Beat slightly with a fork to break and coagulate 
the egg. Add lemon juice and water, mix well, and serve. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK 

1 cup milk White of 1 egg 

Sterilize and cool the milk. Put into a glass jar with 
the white of the egg, and shake until the two are blended. 
A speck of salt may be added if desired. 

PEPTONIZED MILK 

1 tube Fairchild's peptonizing powder V 2 cup cold water 

1 pint fresh milk 

Put the powder into a sterilized quart bottle, add water, 
and shake until the powder is dissolved. Then add the 
milk, shake well, and set into a vessel of water about 115 
degrees F., and keep at that temperature for 10 minutes. 
Serve immediately. Put the remainder on ice to check 
artificial digestion. 

FRUIT EGGNOG 

Vs cup grape juice or prune juice 1 egg separated 

A sprinkle of sugar if desired 

Beat the egg yolk and white separately. Add the sugar 
if needed, and the fruit juice, to the beaten yolk, and mix 
well. Finish and serve the same as for cream eggnog. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



146 FOOD AND COOKERY 

CREAM EGGNOG 

1 egg separated V2 cup thin cream A sprinkle of sugar 

4 or 5 drops of vanilla flavor 

Beat the yolk until light colored and foamy. Beat the 
white stiff. Add the sugar, the vanilla, and a speck of 
salt to the beaten yolk. Then mix in the cream, and fold 
into the beaten white of the egg, reserving a spoonful of 
white for the top of the glass. 

JUNKET 

1 pint milk about 100° F. V 2 junket tablet A sprinkle of sugar 

1 teaspoonful cold water Vanilla flavor to taste 

Dissolve the tablet in the cold water, mix with the pint 
of warm milk, and let stand in a warm place until set. 

LEMON WHEY 

1 cup milk }4 cup lemon juice 

Add lemon juice to milk, and mix. Let stand 10 minutes, 
or until it curdles. Strain through cloth, and serve. 

BAKED BANANA 

Select firm, rather underripe bananas, put them into a 
hot oven without removing the skins, and bake until the 
skins burst. Serve at once in a folded napkin. 

JELLIED EGG 

Put 1 pint of water into a small saucepan, and bring 
to a boil. Drop 1 egg into the water with a spoon, and 
set the vessel on the table for 7 minutes. If more eggs 
are added, water must be increased proportionately. 

It is a very common error to serve the sick with fresh- 
made toast of bread that has been quickly browned on both 
sides and served hot. This makes the bread practically 
as indigestible as fresh-baked bread. Zwieback may be 
heated, served dry, or moistened with hot milk or water; 
and being thoroughly dextrinized, it is very easily digested. 

Eggs, when cooked and served to the sick, should as a 
rule be soft cooked, — poached or soft boiled, curdled, or 
scrambled with a little milk. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FRUIT ICES AND ICE CREAM 

Fruit ices and ice cream are often recommended by 
physicians for particular cases. The following suggestions 
on the use of ices and ice cream, by a physician of long 
practical experience, will be a help to the nurse or the 
mother : 

"Fruit ice is a very useful article of food for those who 
are suffering with a gastritis where there is an absence of 
hydrochloric acid. It has the effect of reducing the in- 
flammatory condition, and at the same time supplies the 
patient with nutrition. It is not a good plan to take fruit 
ice in connection with a large meal, as it lowers the tem- 
perature of the stomach, and the latter cannot perform its 
functions until it has reached its normal temperature 
again. 

"Ice cream is a useful article of food for a person who 
is suffering with gastric ulcer and inflammation of the 
stomach, due to excess of hydrochloric acid, as it is both 
nutritious and cooling to the stomach. 

"The combination of sugar and milk does not see*m to 
do any particular damage under these conditions, for the 
large amount of hydrochloric acid seems to neutralize any 
evil effects. It is not a useful article of food for an in- 
dividual with a normal stomach. The materials used should 
be of the best quality, for frequently we have severe pto- 
maine poisoning from eating an inferior quality of ice 
cream." 

GRAPEFRUIT ICE 

% cup grapefruit juice V2 cup water % cup sugar or more 

Add the sugar to the water, and bring to a boil. When 
cool, add the grapefruit juice, and freeze, using about 1 
part salt to 3 or 4 parts ice. Too much salt makes a 
(use level measurements for^ll ingredients.) 

(147) 



148 FOOD AND COOKERY 

coarse-grained ice. The beaten white of an egg may be 
added if desired. 

LEMON ICE 

V* cup lemon juice % cup water Vz cup sugar or more 

Make the same as grapefruit ice. 

STRAWBERRY ICE 

2 cups strawberries V2 cup sugar or more Vz cup water 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

Wash well colored ripe berries, and remove the stems. 
Put them into a bowl, sprinkle over the sugar, cover, and 
let stand an hour. Then mash them well, add the water, 
and press through a fine strainer or cheesecloth to express 
as much juice as possible. Add the lemon juice and freeze. 

APRICOT ICE 

1 cup stewed apricot pulp 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

14 cup water Sugar to taste 

Stew the apricots with enough sugar to sweeten. When, 
cool, mash through a fine colander, add lemon juice and 
water, and freeze. A little additional sugar may be re- 
quired. 

ICE CREAM 

% cup rich cream % cup milk 1 tablespoonful sugar Vanilla flavor 

Mix the ingredients, and freeze the same as fruit ice. 



HOME CANNING 

The object of this chapter is to aid the housewife in an- 
swering the question of how to preserve the surplus vege- 
tables and fruits from the home garden, so that they may 
be carried over into the winter months, and thus utilize 
to the best advantage all home products. Much valuable 
instruction on the subject of canning and conservation of 
foods is furnished in convenient form through the medium 
of "Farmers' Bulletins," issued by the Department of 
Agriculture, Washington, D. C, and is available to all. 
Following are general principles which direct in this work, 
and a knowledge of which is essential to successful can- 
ning. 

PRINCIPLES OF CANNING 

The great secret of canning lies in complete sterilization. 
The air we breathe, the water we drink, all fruits and 
vegetables, are teeming with minute forms of life, which 
we call bacteria or molds or germs. These germs are 
practically the sole cause of decomposition, or rotting. In 
other words, air that has been freed from germs by heat 
or mechanical means can be passed continuously over 
canned articles without affecting them in the least. 

Germs that cause decay may be divided into three 
classes, yeasts, molds, and bacteria. All three of these 
are plants of a very low order, and all attack plants of a 
higher order in somewhat the same way. The yeast plant 
thrives in substances containing sugar, which it breaks 
up into carbonic acid and alcohol. Molds, like yeasts, 
thrive in mixtures containing sugars, as well as in acid 
vegetables, such as tomatoes, where neither yeasts nor 
bacteria readily grow. 

The spoiling of vegetables is due primarily to bacteria. 
These are much more resistant to heat than are yeasts. 

(149) 



150 FOOD AND COOKERY 

They thrive in milk, and in vegetables rich in protein, such 
as peas and beans. All known species of molds require 
air in which to work; but this is not true of bacteria, cer- 
tain species of which will live and cause vegetables to 
spoil even when no air is present. Bacteria are so small 
that they can be seen only with the microscope, and they 
reproduce themselves with amazing rapidity. One bac- 
terium, under favorable conditions, will produce about 
twenty millions, in the course of twenty-four hours. Ac- 
cordingly, certain vegetables spoil more rapidly than 
others, because they furnish a better medium for bacterial 
growth. 

The reproduction of bacteria is brought about by one 
of two processes. The germ either divides itself into two 
parts, making two bacteria where only one existed before, 
or else it reproduces itself by means of spores. These 
spores may be compared to seeds of an ordinary plant, 
and they present the chief difficulty in canning vegetables. 
While the parent bacteria may be readily killed with a 
temperature of boiling water, the seeds retain their vi- 
tality for a long time at that temperature, and upon cool- 
ing, will germinate and begin their destructive work. 

Therefore it is necessary, in order to sterilize a vege- 
table completely, to heat it to the temperature of boiling 
water, and to keep it at that temperature for about one 
hour, on two or three successive days, or else keep it at 
the temperature of boiling water for a long period of time, 
— two to five hours. The boiling on the first day kills all 
the molds, and practically all the bacteria, but does not 
kill the spores, or seeds. As soon as the jar cools, these 
seeds germinate, and a fresh crop of bacteria begin their 
destructive work upon the vegetable. The boiling upon 
the second day kills this crop of bacteria before they have 
had time to develop spores. The boiling upon the third 
day is not always necessary, but is deemed advisable in 
order that the sterilization may be complete. 



FOOD AND COOKERY 151 

In the use of a glass jar with screw top, the rubber ring 
has a tendency to soften by the third boiling, and thus give 
some difficulty in sealing the jar. Experiments made at 
the College of Agriculture, Berkeley, California, have 
shown that with the addition of a certain proportion of 
wholesome acid to the brine on the vegetables, such as 
lemon juice, they may be canned much the same as fruit. 
For large quantities, the proportion is as follows: "For 
corn, about one and one half teacups lemon juice to the 
gallon of brine; for beans and peas, about one teacup 
lemon juice; and for other vegetables, about three fourths 
teacup to the gallon of brine." 

This is especially suitable for home canning, where the 
vegetables are picked a jar or two at a time, and thus they 
can be boiled in an ordinary saucepan, the same as fruit. 
It appears that after the bacteria have been destroyed by 
boiling, the spores, as they germinate, find an unfavorable 
medium for growth because of the acid in the brine, and 
hence the vegetable keeps perfectly. This is especially 
suitable for beans, peas, and pumpkin. Some persons do 
not relish the flavor when lemon is added to corn ; but for 
string beans, peas, pumpkin, etc., the lemon flavor is 
scarcely noticeable. 

STRING BEANS 

Select young, tender string beans, and break into the 
desired lengths. Wash, drop into boiling water sufficient 
to cover, and salt to taste. Let boil continuously for 30 
minutes. Have glass jars and caps sterilized. Lift a jar 
out of boiling water, and put on a scalded rubber ring. 
For a quart jar, take Vs cup of the hot liquid from off the 
beans, add 1% tablespoonfuls lemon juice, and bring to a 
boil Pour immediately into a hot glass jar, and fill with 
the cooked string beans. Add enough of the remaining 
hot liquid to overflow the jar. Then screw the cap on 
tightly, invert, and let cool. 

(USE level measurements for all increments.) 



152 FOOD AND COOKERY 



PU3IPKIN 



Select well matured red pumpkins. Pare thin, remove 
the seeds, and cut into small blocks. Put into a saucepan, 
cover with hot water, and let boil gently until nearly 
cooked. Have a common wash boiler on the stove, with 
a false bottom and boiling water. Lift glass jars out of 
boiling water. Put on rubber rings. Add \ x k tablespoon- 
fuls lemon juice to each quart jar, and fill with the pump- 
kin. Avoid mashing. Fill the jars to the brim with the 
remaining hot liquid, and screw caps on, not too tight. 
Set the jars into the hot water, cover the boiler, and let 
boil for 1 hour. Then remove from the boiler, re-tighten 
the caps, invert, and let cool. 

GREEN CORN 

The amount of sugar in sweet varieties of corn dimin- 
ishes rapidly after the ear is pulled from the stalk. 
Therefore it should be canned as soon as possible after 
being pulled. Select ears with full grains, husk them, and 
brush off the silks with a stiff brush. Wash, drop into 
boiling water, and let boil 5 minutes to set the milk and 
to expel the air. Then dip into cold water. Shear off the 
corn with a sharp knife, and fill into glass jars to within 
% of an inch from the top. Add 1 teaspoonful salt to 
each quart, and fill with hot water. Screw the top on 
without a rubber, and set on the false bottom of a wash 
boiler. Add enough warm water to come about two thirds 
up the sides of the jar. Cover the boiler, bring gradually 
to a boil, and keep the water boiling for 2 hours for quarts, 
and 2% hours for 2-quart jars. At the end of that time, 
remove the caps, put on the rubbers, and fill the jars to 
overflowing with boiling water. Screw the caps down 
tight, re-cover the boiler, and let boil continuously for 1 
hour more. Then remove the jars from the boiler one at 
a time, re-tighten the caps, invert, and let cool. 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 153 

TOMATOES (Cold Pack) 

Select only sound, ripe tomatoes. Dip into scalding 
water for IV2 minutes, or until the skins loosen. Dip 
into cold water, and remove the stems and the skins. Cut 
into halves, and pack directly into glass jars, pressing 
down with a tablespoon. Add no water. Season with 1 
teaspoonful salt to each quart. 

Put the rubbers in place, and put the caps on loosely. 
Set on the false bottom in a water bath, the same as for 
canned corn, and bring gradually to a boil. Let boil 
gently for 20 minutes after boiling begins. Remove the 
cover from the boiler. Open the jars, one at a time, press 
down the tomato with a silver spoon, and fill with boiling 
stewed tomato. Then screw the cap down tight. Re-cover 
the boiler, and let boil 5 minutes more. Then remove from 
the boiler, re-tighten caps, invert, and let cool. 

TOMATOES (Hot Pack) 

Prepare the tomatoes the same as in the preceding 
recipe, and place in an open kettle. Bring gradually to 
the boiling point, and let simmer until thoroughly cooked 
through. Have the jars and the caps sterilized. Lift 
them one at a time out of boiling water, adjust the rubber, 
and fill with boiling tomato. Put on the cap, and screw 
down tightly, being careful not to touch the inner part of 
jar, rubber, or jar cap with the fingers in handling. In- 
vert and let cool. 

PRESERVATION IN SALT 

"Vegetables can be preserved more cheaply than in cans 
or jars, and more simply for household use than by dry- 
ing. The method makes use of the preservative qualities 
of salt. The following formula is given out by the Di- 
vision of Viticulture, College of Agriculture, Berkeley, 
California : 

(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



354 FOOD AND COOKERY 

"The vegetables are first washed and sliced. Weigh 
them, and take 1 pound of salt for each 2 pounds of pre- 
pared vegetables. A layer of salt is first placed on the 
bottom of the crock or barrel, and then a layer of vege- 
tables. Similar layers are alternated until the vessel is 
full, finishing with a layer of salt. A wooden cover is 
then applied, and weighted with a stone or similar object 
that will not be acted upon by the brine. After a few 
days, there will be a considerable shrinkage in volume, 
and the vessel can be filled with more layers, and weighted 
as before. These methods are suitable for most root vege- 
tables, string beans, cabbage, and cucumbers. The large 
quantities of salt used in these methods must be removed 
by soaking before the vegetables can be eaten." 

Green corn, after blanching (boiling on the cob for five 
minutes), may be cut from the cob in fairly large kernels, 
and preserved in salt by this latter method. 

FRUIT CANNING 

Fruits are usually slightly acid, and in general, do not 
support bacterial growth. So it comes about that canned 
fruits are more commonly fermented by yeasts. The 
yeasts are very easily destroyed, being killed at less than 
boiling temperature. Hence bacteria can be left out of the 
consideration necessary in the canning of vegetables. 

Fruit should not be subjected to long cooking, but should 
be cooked only long enough to insure its preservation. A 
large quantity of sugar spoils the flavor of the fruit, and 
is likely to make it less easily digested. 

SELECTION OF FRUIT 

The selection of fruit is one of the first steps toward 
successful canning. The flavor is not developed until the 
fruit is fully ripe; but the fruit is at its best for canning 
and for jelly making just before it is perfectly ripe. In 
all the soft fruits, the fermentative stage follows closely 



FOOD AND COOKERY 155 

upon the perfectly ripe stage. Therefore underripe fruit 
is better than overripe, for canning purposes. This is 
especially important in jelly making, for the reason that 
in the overripe fruit, the pectin begins to lose its jelly- 
making quality. The fruit should be carefully sorted, as 
unripe fruit requires longer cooking than perfectly ripe 
fruit, and both should not be cooked in the same jar. 

PREPARATION FOR CANNING 

All jars, caps, and utensils should be put on the fire in 
cold water, brought to the boiling point, and kept boiling 
for ten minutes before they are used for canning fruit. 
Two methods are in general use, the cold pack and the 
hot pack. By the cold pack method, the prepared fruit is 
packed into sterilized jars and covered with sirup. The 
jars are then cooked in a hot bath for the required time, 
and sealed. By the hot pack method, the fruit is cooked in 
sirup or water, in an open vessel, and then put into hot 
jars and sealed immediately. 

The quantity of sugar that should be used will vary 
with the kind of fruit, and somewhat with the locality in 
which it is grown. In the following method, the propor- 
tions of sugar used may be taken as an average. More 
or less sugar may be used as the case may require. 

SIRUPS 

Apricots, 2-2% quarts water to 1 quart of sugar 

Peaches, 2y 2 -3 " " " •" 

Pears, 3-4 " " " " " 

Plums, 1-lYz " " " " « 

COLD PACK 

Prepare the fruit by paring, and coring or pitting, as 
needed. Pack the fruit into sterilized glass jars. Then 
complete the filling of the jars with sirup. The sirup, 
should be boiled, but care should be exercised not to break 
the jars. Let the jars stand, after being filled, for 30 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



156 FOOD AND COOKERY 

minutes or more, that the fruit may absorb water, and it 
will not break down so easily in cooking, and will more 
nearly resemble its natural state after it is cooked. Re- 
move the covers, and refill each jar if necessary. Then 
place the filled jars, with rubbers in place, and caps on 
loosely, on the false bottom of an ordinary wash boiler, 
and add warm water until it reaches about two thirds the 
height of the jars. Place the cover on the boiler, and heat 
gradually to the boiling point, counting the time from 
the moment the steam issues out from under the cover of 
the boiler. For soft fruits, as apricots, peaches, and plums, 
10 minutes is sufficient after boiling begins. Pears, apples, 
and prunes will require about 20 to 30 minutes, or until the 
fruit appears tender on being pierced with the point of a 
sharp knife. 

The fruit having been boiled the required time, the cover 
is removed, the caps are screwed down tightly, and the 
jars are inverted or left lying on the side until cold. In 
the cooking of soft fruits, care should be exercised to pre- 
serve the natural color and appearance of the fruit. This 
will depend almost wholly on the cooking; that is, on let- 
ting the fruit stand in the sirup for a certain length of 
time before cooking, then seeing to it that the fruit is not 
overcooked, as overcooking would cause it to shrink up 
and lose its natural appearance. 

CANNING BERRIES 

Berries are a very delicate fruit, and break down very 
easily when canned by the cold pack method, and be- 
cause of this, are generally cooked in the open kettle. For 
each quart of berries, use 1 cup of granulated sugar. 
Put a layer of berries into a granite dish, sprinkle with 
sugar, cover with another layer of berries, and so on. If 
extra juice is desired on the fruit, a little water may be 
added. Let the berries and sugar stand in a cool place 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 157 

for several hours. Then drain off the juice, and bring to 
a boil. Pour in the berries carefully, and shake the dish 
once in a while to keep the fruit heating evenly. As soon 
as it comes to a good boil, draw the saucepan to the edge 
of the stove, and dip into hot jars with a handled cup. 
Put the covers on quickly, and screw them on tight. 
Lay the jars on the side, and turn them once in a while 
during the cooling; and when cold, and set upright, the 
berries will be evenly distributed through the jar. 

CANNING FRUIT WITHOUT SUGAR 

Fruit of any kind suitable for canning may be preserved 
without sugar. The sugar can be added when the fruit 
is used, exactly as is done with fresh fruit. If the fruit 
when canned is thoroughly ripe, it may be eaten without 
any additional sugar, and is sweet enough for many 
tastes. The riper the fruit, provided it is sound, the more 
sugar, flavor, and nutriment it contains. 

Ripe fruits are excellent for making butters. About 1 
cupful of sugar to 12 cupfuls of fruit pulp should be used 
if sweet butter is desired; but the following recipe, if fol- 
lowed, will give a butter which has a sweetness and flavor 
that are greatly relished, without the use of sugar. 

APRICOT BUTTER 

Select overripe fruit, the riper the better, provided it 
is sound. Wash and pit. Scoop out the pulp from each 
half, and mash, or put through a colander, rejecting the 
skins. Do not heat the fruit in the skins, as that extracts 
a strong acid flavor. Cook the pulp down to the desired 
stiffness, adding neither water nor sugar. Pour into 
glass jars, with rubbers on, and screw the covers down 
tight. Place on the false bottom of a water bath, and into 
the boiler pour water the same temperature as the fruit, 
until it reaches about two thirds the height of the jars. 
(USE level measurements for all ingredients.) 



158 FOOD AND COOKERY 

Cook for 20 minutes after boiling begins. This last boil- 
ing is to make sure that the sterilization of the fruit is 
complete, and thus insure its keeping qualities. Remove 
the cover from the boiler, tighten the covers again, invert, 
and let cool. 

JELLY MAKING 

Because of the concentration of a large amount of cane 
sugar in jelly, it is rendered less wholesome, and should 
be used sparingly, if at all. Most women, however, desire 
to. put up a few glasses of jelly to have on hand for 
special purposes, and a few recipes will be given for the 
kinds more commonly used. The fruit juice may be put 
up in glass jars, the same as canned fruit, if desired, and 
the jelly can be made as needed. 

Large fruits, such as apples, should yield about 3 quarts 
of strained juice from 8 quarts of apples and 4 quarts of 
water. Juicy plums will require only 3 or 3^ quarts of 
water to 8 quarts of fruit. Add the water to the fruit, and 
simmer slowly until done. Then hang up in a bag to drip. 
The time of boiling the juice after adding the sugar will 
depend on the concentration of the fruit juice, the propor- 
tion of sugar, and the pectin, and, in all probability, the 
degree of acidity. The two principal causes of failure in 
jelly making are: first, the common practice of adding too 
much sugar; second, the differing composition of fruit 
juices. 

In a dry time, the juice in fruit is not very abundant, 
and the percentage of sugar is high. On the other hand, if 
fruit is picked after a rain, the amount of water in the 
juice increases. As a result, the fruit from the very same 
tree yields juice with less sugar after a rain. These facts 
will explain why the amount of sugar that must be added 
to make the juice "jell" varies at different times. 
(use level measurements for all ingredients.) 



FOOD AND COOKERY 159 

PLUM JELLY 

If the juice is very much diluted, it should be boiled be- 
fore the sugar is added, to concentrate it, so that the cook- 
ing after the sugar is added will not be too long. To each 
quart of juice, add 1 quart of sugar, bring to a boil, skim, 
and let boil gently until, when a spoon is dipped into the 
jelly and lifted, it is coated with jelly. Then pour into hot 
glasses, and set away until cool. Another test used, per- 
haps more frequently, is the cooling test. Drop a teaspoon- 
ful of the jelly into a saucer, set in a cool place, and stop 
the boiling of the jelly until you determine whether the 
mixture will set. As soon as the jelly is hardened, pour 
a thin coat of hot paraffin over the top of each glass, and 
it is ready to store. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Select currants that are not too ripe. Wash them, but 
do not stem. Drain well. Mash a small quantity at a time 
in a stone crock, with a potato masher, and squeeze 
through cloth. Then strain the juice again without squeez- 
ing, so that the liquid may be clear. Put the liquid on the 
fire, in a porcelain-lined kettle, and bring to a boil. Heat 
the sugar in the oven separately; and when the juice has 
boiled from 15 to 20 minutes, stir in the hot sugar, and 
continue stirring until it is dissolved. Bring to a boil, 
skim, and let boil 2 minutes. Take glasses out of hot 
water, fill them with the boiling liquid, and set away until 
jellied. Then cover with paraffin, as usual. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

1 quart cranberries 1 pint water 1 pint sugar 

Pick berries over, wash, and drain well. Add 1 pint 
water to the berries, and let boil 8 minutes after boiling 
begins. Mash through a colander, add sugar, and bring 
to a boil. Skim, and let boil gently for 4 minutes. Then 
pour into hot glasses or jars. When set, pour hot paraffin 
over the top of each glass. 

(USE level measurements for all ingrebie&ts.) 

11 — Food and Cookery 



INDEX 



Miscellaneous Recipes 

Brown Flour 53 

Buttermilk 49 

Cereal Coffee, Homemade .... 52 

Cottage Cheese 51 

Cream Roast Flour 53 

Croutons, Bread 53 

Emulsified Oil 48 

Fruit and Nut Bars 51 

Fruit Coffee 52 

Gra-no Cereal 52 

Lactosa 50 

Noodles 52 

Nuttose 51 

Parched Corn 53 

Pasteurized Milk 49 

Soup Royale 53 

Vegetable Butter 48 

Unfermented Batter Breads 

Aerated Corn Meal Gems .... 57 

Aerated Wheat Gems 56 

Corn Bread 57 

Corn Cake 58 

Corn Dodgers 57 

Corn Meal Puffs 56 

Currant Puffs 56 

Hot Cakes 58 

Johnnycake 58 

Wheat Puffs 56 

Unfermented Dough Breads 

Buckwheat Sticks 61 

Buckwheat Wafers 62 

Corn Meal Crisps 61 

Cream Rolls 59 

Date Rolls 60 

Entire Wheat Sticks 60 

Fruit Crisps 60 

Rye Sticks 61 

Rye Wafers 61 

Walnut Sticks 60 

Wheat Sticks 59 

Fermented Breads 

Bran Biscuit 68 

Brown Bread, Steamed 71 

Corn Bread, Raised 69 

Diabetic Bread 

(Strong in Gluten) 73 

Entire Whole . Wheat Bread.. 68 

Fruit Bread 70 



Gluten Biscuit 72 

Liquid Yeast 66 

Mother's Bread 67 

Parker House Rolls 71 

Rye Bread 70 

Shortcake, Raised 72 

Wheat Bread 69 

Yeasts 66 

Zwieback 73 

Soups 

Bean Soup Army Style 75 

Cream of Barley 76 

Cream of Corn 78 

Cream of Green Peas 77 

Cream of Lettuce 77 

Cream of Tomato 77 

Cream of Vegetable Oyster... 78 

Family Potato Soup 76 

Farmers' Favorite 75 

Fruit Soup 79 

Lima Bean Soup 76 

Vegetable Chowder 75 

Vegetable Julienne 74 

Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees 

Bean Loaf, Ribbon 82 

Bean Patties 83 

Bean Puree, Browned 82 

Beans, Baked Lima 82 

Beans, Brown, with Mint Sauce 84 

Beans, Stewed Lima 81 

Beans, Stewed Soy 84 

Beans with Dumplings 84 

Beans with Noodles 83 

Cereal Fillets 92 

Croquettes, Rice and Egg.... 83 

Dressing, Baked 89 

Dressing Without Eggs 89 

Garbanzos, Baked 85 

Garbanzos, Stewed 85 

Gluten Vegetable Stew 87 

Hash, Nut and Potato 135 

Lentil and Rice Loaf 88 

Loaf, Ribbon Bean 82 

Loaf, Rice and Soy Bean.... 85 

Loaf, Savory Vegetable 85 

Loaf, Vegetable, en Aspic ... 93 

Macaroni au Gratin 91 

Macaroni Family Style 90 

Macaroni with Olives 91 

New England Dinner 94 



(160) 



INDEX 



161 



Grains, Nut Foods, Entrees 

Noodles au Gratin 91 

Noodles with Beans 83 

Noodles with Peas 84 

Nut and Potato Pie 86 

Nut Meat with Dressing, Boast 90 

Olive Fillets 93 

Patties, Bean 83 

Patties, Soy Bean and Bice. . 85 

Peas with Noodles 84 

Peas with Whole Bice 87 

Potato and Nut Hash 135 

Potato, Boasted with Dressing 90 

Potato Stew with Dumplings. . 86 

Bibbon Bean Loaf 82 

Bice and Egg Croquettes.... 83 

Bice and Lentil Loaf 88 

Bice and Soy Bean Loaf. ... 85 

Bice and Soy Bean Patties . . 85 

Bice, Baked Italienne 88 

Bice, Spanish 89 

Bice with Peas 87 

Boast, Walnut 93 

Savory Vegetable Loaf 85 

Soy Bean and Bice Patties. . . 85 

Soy Beans, Stewed 84 

Spaghetti en Croustade 92 

Spaghetti in Tomato : 92 

Spanish Bice 89 

Vegetable Gluten Stew 87 

Vegetable Loaf en Aspic .... 93 

Vegetable Loaf, Savorv 85 

Walnut Timbales 94 

Gravies and Sauces 

Brazil Nut Sauce 96 

Brown Cream Gravy 95 

Brown Gravy 95 

Country Gravy 95 

Cream Sauce 96 

Custard Sauce 97 

Egg Gravy 95 

Egg Sauce 96 

Lemon Sauce 97 

Mint Sauce 97 

Nut Sauce 96 

Tomato Cream Sauce 96 

Tomato Sauce 96 

Vegetables 

Asparagus, New 99 

Asparagus Tips and New Peas 100 

Beans, String 99 

Beets, Buttered 105 

Beets, Scalloped 105 

Beets, Stewed 104 

Cabbage, Stewed 107 



Carrots and Green Peas 104 

Carrots in Cream 104 

Carrots, Stewed 104 

Carrots with Egg Sauce .... 104 

Cauliflower au Gratin 103 

Cauliflower in Cream 103 

Celery with Peas, Stewed . . . 107 

Corn, Baked Cream 102 

Corn on Cob 102 

Corn Saute, Green 102 

Cucumbers, Smothered 107 

Cucumbers with Egg Sauce.. 107 

Eggplant, Baked 102 

Eggplant, Breaded 102 

Eggplant, Scalloped 101 

Okra and Tomato 106 

Onions, Boiled 106 

Onions in Cream 106 

Parsnips, Baked 105 

Parsnips with Egg Sauce. . . .105 

Peas, New 99 

Potato, Creamed 136 

Potato, Duchess 108 

Potato en Surprise 108 

Potato, Kentucky 108 

Potato, Boasted 107 

Potato, Scalloped 108 

Potato, Sweet 108 

Spinach 106 

Squash, Baked 101 

Squash, Scalloped 101 

Squash, Summer 101 

String Beans 99 

Succotash 107 

Sweet Potato 108 

Sweet Potato, Glazed 109 

Sweet Potato, Mashed 109 

Tomato, Baked 100 

Tomato, Breaded 100 

Tomato, Scalloped 100 

Tomato, Stewed 100 

Turnips, Stewed 105 

Vegetable Oyster, Scalloped. . 103 
Vegetable Oyster, Stewed 103 

Dried Fruits 

Apricots, Stewed Ill 

Peaches, Stewed 112 

Prunes, Stewed Ill 

ruddings and Jellies 

Apple and Baisin Pudding. .. 116 

Apple Snow 114 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 113 

Berry Mold 118 

Blancmange 117 



162 



INDEX 



Puddings and Jellies 

Bread Pudding 116 

Cream Rice Pudding 115 

Croquettes of Rice, Jelly 116 

Flummery, Strawberry 117 

Fruit Jelly 118 

Fruit Pudding, Graham 114 

Fruit Pudding, Pressed 112 

Fruit Pudding, Steamed 114 

Gelatin, Vegetable 117 

Graham Fruit Pudding 114 

Hoover Pudding 115 

Jelly, Berry 118 

Jelly, Fruit 118 

Jelly, Lemon 117 

Jelly, Orange 117 

Lemon Snow 115 

Pressed Fruit Pudding 112 

Prune Pudding 112 

Prune Whip 113 

Rice Pudding, Cream 115 

Steamed Fruit Pudding 114 

Strawberry Flummery 117 

Strawberry Whip 113 

Vegetable Gelatin 117 

Pie Crust 

Beaten Oil Crust 118 

Crust Shells 119 

Grano Crust 119 

Plain Pastry 118 

Pies 

Apple Pie 119 

General Rules 121 

Lemon Pie 120 

Prune Pie 119 

Pumpkin Pie 120 

Pumpkin Pie Without Eggs.. 120 

Raisin Pie 120 

Strawberry Pie .119 

Cakes, Icings, Fillings 

Boiled Frosting 124 

Jelly Roll 123 

Lady Fingers 123 

Layer Cake 121 

Lemon Filling 125 

Loaf Cake 122 

Orange Filling 125' 

Ornamental Frosting 124 

Plain Icing 124 

Strawberry Filling 125 

White Mountain Cake 122 



Salad Dressings 

Boiled Dressing 126 

Cream Dressing 127 

Cream Mayonnaise 127 

French Dressing 127 

Golden Fruit Sauce 127 

Mayonnaise Dressing 126 

Vegetable Salads 

Bean Salad 129 

Beet and Egg 130 

Beets in Lemon 131 

Cold Slaw 130 

Combination Salad 130 

Cucumber Salad 130 

Egg Salad 130 

Italian Salad 129 

Lettuce and Tomato 128 

Macedoine Salad 129 

Nut and Celery Salad 129 

Poinsettia Tomato 128 

Potato Salad 129 

String Bean Salad 131 

Stuffed Tomato 128 

Sweet Potato Salad 131 

Tomato en Surprise 128 

Water Lily Salad 130 

Fruit Salad 

Crown Prince Salad 132 

Fruit Basket 131 

Fruit Salad 132 

Fruits and Nuts 132 

Raisin Salad 133 

Ribbon Apple Salad 133 

Stuffed Date Salad 131 

Waldorf Salad 133 

Toasts and Breakfast Dishes 
Grains 

Barley, Steamed 138 

Cooked Grains 137 

Corn Grits, Parched 138 

Corn Meal Mush 137 

Feterita Grits 139 

Grano Cereal with Dates . . . .138 

Oats, Rolled 137 

Rice-Banana 138 

Rice, Browned 138 

Rice, Creamed 137 

Rice, Steamed Natural 137 

Wheat, Steamed 133 

Toasts 

Cream Peas on Toast 134 

Creamed Potato 136 



INDEX 



163 



Toasts 

Cream Toast 134 

Cream Tomato Toast 135 

Hash, Nut and Potato 135 

Mashed Potato Cakes 136 

Plain Omelet 136 

Prune Toast 134 

Scrambled Egg with 

New Tomato 136 

Strawberry Toast 134 

Sultana Toast 135 

Walnut Cream Toast 135 

Sandwiches 

Bean Sandwich 140 

Cucumber Sandwich 141 

Date and Nut 141 

Egg and Tomato 140 

Egg Sandwich 140 

Honey and Nut 141 

Legume Sandwich 141 

Nut and Fruit 141 

Nut and Jelly 140 

Nut and Tomato 140 

Nut Butter and Olive 140 

Raisin Sandwich 141 

Tomato Sandwich 140 

Cookery for the Sick 

Albumenized Milk 145 

Albumenized Water 145 

Banana, Baked 146 

Barley Water 144 

Corn Meal Gruel 143 



Eggnog, Cream 146 

Eggnog, Fruit 145 

Flaxseed Tea 144 

Gluten Gruel 143 

Granose Gruel 143 

Jellied Egg 146 

Junket 146 

Lemon Albumen 145 

Lemon Whey 146 

Malted Milk, Hot 144 

Oatmeal Gruel 143 

Peptonized Milk 145 

Rice Water 144 

Toast Water 144 

Fruit Ices and Ice Cream 

Apricot Ice 148 

Grapefruit Ice 147 

Ice Cream 148 

Lemon Ice 148 

Strawberry Ice 148 

Home Canning 

Apricot Butter 157 

Berries 156 

Canning Fruit Without Sugar 157 

Cranberry Jelly 159 

Currant Jelly 159 

Green Corn 152 

Plum Jelly 159 

Preparation for Canning .... 155 

Pumpkin 152 

Selection of Fruit 154 

String Beans 151 

Tomatoes 153 



