m 















EGGLESS 
RECIPE BOOK 



FOR 

Cakes, Cookies, Muffins 

AND 

Desserts 



m 

g^3 

mm 



PUBLISHED BY 

O. H. THOMPSON 



PRICE, 50 CENTS 



COPYRIGHT, 1917 






PPE 



t^«^E«? 



iB ^3S&-N 






THIS RECIPE BOOK 

IS DEDICATED TO 

Economical Housewives. 

In using these recipes, make ready all materials and pans before 
beginning* to put cakes, cookies, etc., together. Pans should be greased 
with sweet lard, as butter scorches very easily. For cakes made with 
brown sugar or dark molasses, it is better to line the pans with lightly 
grease :! paper, and if paper is thin do not grease at all. In baking 
fruit cake use more than one thickness of paper. Mix in an earthen 
bowl with a wooden spoon. Coarse texture with large holes shows 
insufficient baating and too much baking powder or soda. Do not use 
heaping measures unless called for. And if you don't have success 
the first time, don't condemn the recipe, but try again. And also 
remember that the plainest of cakes may be made attractive by the 
addition of a dainty icing. So try and keep on hand the necessary 
materials, such as confectioner's sugar, little jars of coloring paste, 
or small bottles of fruit or vegetable coloring. Once you buy them 
they will last a long time, as it takes but a few drops to make a desired 
color. You can buy orange, fruit red, green, violet, pink, brown and 
golden yellow. Also have some candied cherries, conserved orange 
and pineapple, some candied orange and lemon peel and a few pieces 
of citron, some English walnut meats, pecans, almonds, raisins and 
currants. Of course it is not necessary to have all these materials, but 
with them you can make a great variety out of the plainest of cakes 
such as you will find in this little book. 

Sincerely, 

0. H. THOMPSON. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

2 1 /£ teaspoons make 1 tablespoon. 
4 tablespoons make 1 wineglassful. 
2 wineglassfuls make 1 gill. 
2 gills make 1 teacupful. 
2 teacupfuls make 1 pint. 
4 teaspoons of salt make 1 ounce. 
1 V2 tablespoons sugar make 1 ounce. 
2 cups or 1 pint sugar make 1 pound. 

1 scant quart wheat flour makes 1 pound. 
10 eggs make 1 pound. 

A piece of butter size of an egg makes \ x k ounces. 

2 cups butter make 1 pound. 




JUN-I 1917 

©CU469046 



CAKES 

No. 1. Eggless, Milkless, Butterless 
FRUIT CAKE 



■ 



Part No. 1 

2 cups raisins 
2 cups currants 

1 cup citron and nuts 
% cup shortening 

2 cups water 
2 cups dark brown sugar 

Mix all ingredients together, 
set on the fire and boil 10 minutes 
until thick, then set away to cool. 






Part No. 2 

4 cups flour 

1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon salt 
1 1 teaspoon baking soda 

Mix all ingredients together, 
add to No. 1 and stir well. Put 
in loaf pans lined with greased 
paper and bake one hour in a slow 
oven. 



No. 2. FRUIT CAKE 



Part No. 1 

1 cup brown sugar 
\ X A cups water 

1 cup raisins 

V.i cup shortening 

2 ounces citron, cut fine 

Mix No. 1 together, set on 
f:re and boil 5 minutes; set away 
to cool. 



Part No. 2 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1>. 
V 2 teaspoon salt 

2 cups flour 

5 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix No. 2 together thoroughly, 
add to No. 1 and stir well; bake 
in loaf pans about 1 hour, slow 
oven. 



No. 3. MARBLE CAKE 



Wi cups sugar 

2 cups flour 

2 teaspoons of baking powder 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 

X A teaspoon salt 



Wz cups lard 

2 tablespoons cocoa 

% cup milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

% cup cold coffee 



Sift all dry ingredients together; then rub the lard into the mix- 
ture and divide into two equal parts. To one part add the, coffee and 
cocoa. To the other, the milk^pd vanilla. Mix each part well and 
putvthem in alternate layers m* a buttered and floured cake pan and 
bake in a moderate oven % of an hour, i 

3 , 



No. 4. DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

2 cups brown sugar 1 x h cups flour 

V 2 cup butter % cake of baker's chocolate, 

% cup sour milk grated and dissolved in Ms cup 

V 2 teaspoon baking soda water 

Cream together the sugar and butter ; then add the sour milk into 

which the sodx has been dissolved. Then stir in the flour and choc- 
olate. Bake 45 min. 

No. 5. CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 

Ms cup butter 1 square baker's chocolate 

V2 cup sour milk V2 cup of boiling water 

2 scant cups of flour 
Cream sugar and butter; dissolve soda in sour milk and add to 
sugar and butter. Dissolve chocolate in the boiling water and add to 
the mixture; stir in the flour and bake 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

No. 6. BOILED CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

y 2 cup lard 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup hot water lMs cups flour 

1 cup raisins 1 teaspoon baking soda 

Boil sugar, lard, raisins and hot water together for 3 minutes and 

set away to cool ; then add the flour, spices and soda and mix well. 

Put in a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

No. 7. QUEEN'S CAKE 

1 cup sugar 2 cups sifted flour 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon soda 

Ms cup lard 2 teaspoons mixed spices 

1 cup seedless raisins 
Cream sugar and lard; dissolve soda in the /sour milk and add to 
sugar and lard; stir well and add flour; mix smooth and add spices and 
raisins. Put in a loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven. 

No. 8. EGGLESS LOAF CAKE 

V 2 cup butter 3 cups flour 

lMs cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1M>. cups milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Cream sugar and butter; then add milk; stir until sugar is dis- 
solving; then stir in gradually the flour sifted together with baking 
powder and cornstarch. Mix well and bake in loaf pan; moderate oven. 

4 



No. 9. RAISIN CAKE 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

V2 cup lard y 2 teaspoon allspice 

4 cups flour 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups sour milk 1 lb. raisins, seeded and cut 

1 teaspoon baking powder or soda 
Cream sugar and lard; if soda is used, dissolve in sour milk; if 
baking powder, sift with the flour; add the sour milk to the sugar and 
lard; stir well; then add all the dry ingredients sifted together; mix 
well; then stir in the raisins and flavor with orange and vanilla blended; 
% hours in medium oven. 



No. 10. SPICE CAKE 

1 cup dark molasses 2V2 cups flour 

2 tablespoons of butter 1 cup raisins 

1 cup sour milk with 2 level tea- 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

spoons of socla or same of V2 teaspoon cloves 

sweet milk with 2 teaspoons % teaspoon allspice, 
baking powder 

Mix molasses and butter; add milk, and then the flour, raisins 

an 1 spices; mix thoroughly and put in loaf pans and bake 1 hour in a 

slow oven. 



No. 11. EGOLESS LAYER CAKE 

2 cups sour cream 1 teaspoon soda 

3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons lemon 
5 cups flour V2 teaspoon salt 

Mix cream, sugar, salt and lemon extract together; dissolve sola 
in two tablespoons of cold water and add to the mixture. Stir in the 
flour a little at a time till quite smooth. Butter two cake pans, fill half 
full of batter and bake in a moderate oven 45 minutes. Use any filling 
desired. 



No. 12. BANANA CAKE 

2 cups sliced banana 1 cup sugar 

V 2 cup water V2 cup butter 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 

Mash bananas with sugar; add the water, butter and baking pow- 
der and enough flour to make a dough that drops easily from a spoon. 
Bake in shallow pans in a quick oven. 

5 



No. 13. POOR MAN'S CAKE 

1 cup sugar V2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Z cups flour 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

M cup butter 1 teaspoon lemon 

Mix butter and sugar; stir soda into sour milk and add to butter 
and sugar, but do not stir; sift flour, cornstarch and baking powder; add 
them and stir thoroughly; add flavoring and bake in three layers; 
spread layers with jelly or icing as desired. 

No. 14. HARD TIMES CAKE 

% cup shortening 4 cups flour 

1 cup molasses V2 nutmeg grated 

i cup sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup strong coffee 1 teaspoon soda 

Dissolve soda in coffee and add to the shortening, sugar and mo- 
lasses, which have been mixed thoroughly; then add flour into which 
you have stirred the spices and raisins or currants; if you choose, about 
two cups will be sufficient; mix all well; put in pans lined with greased 
paper and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 

No. 15. VELVET LUNCH CAKE 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
V 2 cup fresh lard x k teaspoon allspice 

. 4 cups flour 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups sour milk 1 lb. raisins seeded and cut 

1 teaspoon baking powder or the same of soda dissolved in a tablespoon 

of hot water 
Cream sugar and lard; add the sour milk; mix flour and spices 
and stir in then the raisins. Bake in loaf pans in a moderate oven. 

No. 16. EGGLESS CAKE 

: V 2 cup butter 3 cups flour 

iy 2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1% cups milk 1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Cream butter and sugar; add milk and stir till sugar is dissolved; 
stir in gradually the flour sifted with the baking powder and corn- 
starch; mix stiff and bake as a loaf cake or in three layers with any 
filling desired. 

No. 17. EGGLESS GOLD CAKE 

V 2 cup of carrots boiled till ten- 2 cups flour 

der and rubbed through a sieve 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 cup sugar V2 teaspoon baking soda 

% cup shortening V2 teaspoon salt 

1 scant cup milk V2 cup raisins seeded and floured 

lemon flavor 
6 



Mix thoroughly the carrots, sugar and shortening; add the milk 
and flavor; sift the flour, cream of tartar, soda and salt; stir in well, 
and add the raisins. Bake in a loaf pan in a moderate oven. 

No. 18. APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1% cups flour 

V$ cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup apple sauce y 2 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon baking soda x / 2 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup currants or raisins y 2 teaspoon nutmeg 

Cream sugar and butter; dissolve soda in a tablespoon of hot 
water and stir into apple sauce; add to the butter and sugar; then stir 
in the flour and spices sifted together and add the raisins. Bake in 
a loaf pan 45 minutes; moderate oven. 

No. 19. SOUR MILK CAKE 

% cup molasses 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V 2 cup butter 1 teaspoon baking soda 

3 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

i cup sour milk y 2 lb. raisins 

Cream the butter and sugar; stir in the molasses; dissolve soda in 
the sour milk and add; sift the flour, spices and baking powder together 
and stir in; then add the raisins; put in loaf pans and bake in a slow 
oven 1 hour. 

No. 20. PORK CAKE 

without eggs, butter or milk 

1 lb. salt pork, ground fine 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 pt. dark molasses 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 pint hot black coffee 1 teaspoon ginger 

Pour the hot coffee, in which dissolve \y 2 teaspoons baking soda, 
over the salt pork; add the molasses, sugar and flour enough to make 
a medium stiff dough; stir in the spices and 1 pound raisins and cur- 
rants together, and a cup of chopped nuts and candied cherries if 
desired; put into loaf pans and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. 

No. 21. CRUMB CAKE 

3 cups flour 1 cup sour milk 

l x /2 cups brown sugar 5 teaspoons cocoa or chocolate 

L / 2 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

Put the flour, sugar and cocoa or chocolate into a mixing bowl; stir 
all together and then rub the butter in; put soda in sour milk and add 
to the mixture; add the salt and beat all together; pour into a greased 
pan and bake in a slow oven; ice if desired. 

7 



No. 22. EGOLESS DROP CAKES 

1 cup butter 4 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 1 cup chopped raisins 

2 cups milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon of vanilla 
Cream butter and sugar; add the milk; sift the flour and baking 
powder and stir in; then add the flavor and raisins; mix well and drop 
in gem pans or little cake tins; bake in hot oven. 

No. 23. SPICE CUP CAKES 

1 cup dark molasses % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup brown sugar V 2 teaspoon ginger 

\ x k cups lard V2 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon of baking powder , 1 cup boiling water 

Mix the molasses, shortening and sugar together till creamy; 
dissolve the soda in the hot water and add; sift the spices, salt and 
flour together and stir in well. Drop in muffin tins and bake 20 or 30 
minutes. 

No. 24. MOLASSES CUP CAKES 

3 tablespoons, brown sugar 1 tablespoon ginger 

5 tablespoo&s flour 2 tablespoons dark molasses 

1 heaping teaspoon baking powder 
Mix all dry ingredients together; then add molasses with a little 
milk; stir well; drop in greased cup cake pans and bake 20 or 30 
minutes. 

No. 25. GINGER NUTS 

% cup butter and lard 1 oz. ground allspice 

% cup brown sugar 1 oz. ground cloves 

"iVz lbs. flour 1 oz. ground cinnamon 

1 oz. ground ginger 

Cream shortening and sugar; then work in the spices and flour 
and mix to a stiff dough with molasses and let stand % hour; make into 
balls about the size of a walnut, press out flat, put in a greased pan 
2 inches apart and bake in a medium oven 10 minutes. 



COOKIES, MUFFINS, ETC. 

No. 1. EGGLESS COOKIES 

2 cups sour cream 1 teaspoon soda 

G cups flour 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups sugar V 2 teaspoon soda 

Put flour in a mixing pan, making a hollow in the center into 
which put th3 sugar, salt and cinnamon; dissolve soda in the sour 
cream and add; stir with a spoon till most of the flour is stirred in; 
mix in the rest of the flour with the hands; roll in a thin sheet; use 
round cutter; hot oven. ■■■» 

. ,t 

No. 2. GINGER SNAPS 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon ginger 

V 2 cup hot water 1 teaspoon cloves 

Mix sugar, molasses an 1 batter; dissolve soda in a little hot water 
an 1 add; mix the spices with enough flour to make a stiff dough; roll 
verv thin and cut with a small round cutter and bake in a hot oven. 



No. 3. MOLASSES COOKIES- 

,.,'" •* 

1 cup lard 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup sugar V2 cup boiling water 

1 cup molasses V2 teaspoon cloves 
4% cups flour V2 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 teaspoon ginger 
Cream, lard and sugar; add molasses, then soda dissolved in the 
boiling water; mix the spices with 4 cups of. flour and stir into mix- 
1 11-3, using the other V 2 cup of flour to rolLout the dough; roll thin; 
cut out with large cutter and bake in a hot oven. 

No. 4. GINGER COOKIES 

2 cups molasses 2 teaspoons cream of tar 
1 cup brown sugar V2 cup coffee 

1 cup lard 1 teaspoon ginger 

pinch of salt 
Mix sugar with molasses, then add salt, shortening, ginger, coffee 
and cream of tartar; add enough flour to roll thin; cut with a cookie 

cutter and bake 20 or 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

hi-'i 
■ t 9 



No. 5. SOUR CREAM COOKIES 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cap sour cream V2 teaspoon vanilla 

pinch of salt 
Dissolve soda in the soar cream' and add to the sugar; put in 
vanilla, salt and enough flour to roll thin without sticking; cut with a 
cookie cutter and bake 20 or 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

No. 6. FRUIT COOKIES 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V 2 cup lard V2 teaspoon nutmeg 

V2 cup sour milk 1 cup of raisins and nuts or 1 

cup, chopped dates and figs 
Cream sugar and shortening; add the soda dissolved in the milk; 
mix the spices with enough flour to make a medium stiff dough; then 
stir in the raisins and nuts; roll out thick, cut out with cookie cutter 
and bake in a medium oven. 

No. 7. LEMON TEA CAKES 

2% cups sugar 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

V2 cup butter % pint milk 

3 pints flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon lemon 

Cream butter and sugar; add a pinch of salt and the flour into 

which has been sifted the cream of tartar; mix this to a dough with the 

milk, reserving a little to dissolve the soda, adding this last of all; mix 

well and roll out thin; cut into small round cakes and bake in a hot oven. 

No. 8. CARAWAY SEED COOKIES 

% lb. butter and lard 3 lbs. flour 

1 lb. sugar 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

V2 pt. cold water V2 cup caraway seeds 

Cream the sugar with the butter and lard, then add the flour into 
which has been sifted the cream of tartar; mix to a dough with the 
water in which has been dissolved a teaspoon of baking soda; roll out 
and cut into oblong cakes, sprinkle with caraway seeds and bake in 
a hot oven. 

No. 9. CHOCOLATE WAFERS 

X A cup butter 2 squares grated chocolate 

V2 cup powdered sugar a /4 cup milk 

1 cup flour V 2 teaspoon vanilla 

pinch of salt 
Cream butter and sugar; add the milk, then flour, salt, chocolate 
and flavor; spread on buttered pans, sprinkle with a cup of chopped 
nuts and bake in a medium oven. 

10 



No. 10. LEMON SNAPS 

1 heaping cup sugar % cup butter 

V 2 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in two of hot water f 
Work in enough flour to make a very stiff dough; flavor with 
lemon; roll out thin; use a small round cutter and bake in a hot oven. 

No. 11. CREAM MUFFINS 

1% cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons sugar 3 tablespoons butter 

3 teaspoons baking powder % cup cream 

Sift dry ingredients together twice, then work in the butter with 
the finger tips; add cream and mix well; fill muffin tins half full and 
bake 15 or 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

No. 12. PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 cups flour V 2 teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons lard 

Mix an i sift dry ingredients; add milk and melted shortening and 
beat till smooth; bake in greased muffin tins 20 or 25 minutes in a hot 
oven. 

No. 13. CORNMEAL MUFFINS 

% cups cornmeal 2 tablespoons sugar 

\ X A cups flour 1 cup milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons lard 

Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk and melted short- 
ening and beat well; bake in greased muffin tins about 20 minutes in a 
hot oven. 

No. 14. WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM MUFFINS 

1 tablespoon sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

y 2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons shortening 

2 cups of whole wheat or graham flour 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add enough milk or water to make 
a stiff batter; add melted shortening and bake in greased muffin tins 
about 25 or 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

No. 15. BRAN MUFFINS 

1 cup bran 1 cup milk 

1 cup graham flour 3 tablespoons shortening 

1 tablespoon brown -sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients, then add milk and melted shorten- 
ing; beat until thoroughly mixed and bake in greased muffin tins in 
a hot oven 25 or 30 minutes. 

11 



No. 16. CORN BREAD 

iy 2 cups milk X A cup flour 

2 tablespoons shortening 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1% cups cornmeal 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 
Sift dry ingredients into a bowl; add milk and melted shortening; 
beat well and put in greased pan or muffin tins and bake in a hot oven 
25 minutes. 

No. 17. STEAMED CORN BREAD 

2 cups cornmeal V2 pint sour milk 

1 cup flour V2 pint sweet milk 

V 2 pint of sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 

V2 teaspoon salt 
Put the cornmeal, flour, sugar and salt in a bowl; add the sweet 
milk, mix thoroughly, then stir in the sour milk in which put the soda; 
mix well and divide into buttered baking powder tins and steam 3 
hours. 

No. 18. GINGERBREAD 

1 cup molasses 1V& teaspoons soda 

1 cup sour milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 Ms cups flour 2 teaspoons ginger 

X A cup melted butter 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

V2 teaspoon salt 
Stir the melted butter into the molasses, then sift together the 
flour, spices, baking powder and salt; add the soda to the sour milk 
and stir into the molasses and butter, then stir in the flour, etc.; pour 
in greased pan and bake 30 or 40 minutes. 

No. 19. APPLE GINGER BREAD 

1 cup chopped tart apples 1 tablespoon ginger 

1 lemon, boiled and chopped 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup drippings V2 cup cold water 

Mix all together and add of flour enough to make a medium stiff 
batter; stir in a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a tablespoon of water, 
then stir in a teaspoon of baking powder sifted with a tablespoon of 
flour; mix well and bake in a loaf or gem pans; moderate oven. 

No. 20. COFFEE CAKE 

2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 
V2 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons shortening 

2 tablespoons sugar V 2 cup milk 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add the melted shortening and 
enough milk to make a very stiff batter; spread V 2 inch thick in greased 
pan and spread thickly with top mixture; bake V 2 hour. 

12 



Top Mixture 

2 tablespoons flour 4 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 4 tablespoons shortening 

Mix dry ingredients; rub in shortening. 

No. 21. SPONGE COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup light, soft bread sponge or V 2 cup butter 
V 2 cup soft yeast V 2 cup sugar 

1 pint sweet milk 3 cups flour 

Stir all together and set in a warm place to rise; roll out in sheets 
V 2 inch thick and let rise again; when light spread thick cream over 
top and sift sugar over it with a little cinnamon added; bake in a 
quick oven till a light brown. 

No. 22. Doughnuts 
\ x / 2 pints milk y 2 pound butter 

1 pound sugar 1 nutmeg grated 

Vz cup liquid yeast 
Mix all together and let rise over night; in the. morning add 
enough fioar to make a soft dough and let rise again; after rolling out 
and cutting, let rise again on cake board a short time before frying in 
very hot lard; whem done, roll in powdered sugar. 

No. 23. LEBKUCHEN, OR GERMAN COFFEE CAKE 

1 pound granulated sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup lard 1 teaspoon baking softa dissolved 

1 pint milk in a little vinegar 

pinch of salt 
Cream sugar and lard; add milk, then baking soda, then cream of 
tartar sifted with enough flour to make a soft, sticky batter; set on 
ice till very cold; when ready, if too sticky, add a little more flour; cut 
into oblong pieces after rolling out about 1 inch thick; put in flat tins 
an inch apart and wash with black coffee. 

No. 24. TWISTERS 

1 cup sour milk ■ 1 teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons sugar 
Dissolve soda in spur milk; add sugar and enough flour to make 
a stiff dough; roll V 2 inch thick and cut into long strips, bring the 
two ends of the strip together and twist; drop in a pan of smoking 
hot grease; when brown, take out. 

No. 25. LEMON TWIST 

Take enough bread dough to make a small loaf; work into this 
two tablespoons of *s\igar and x / 2 cup of shortening; roll out V 2 inch 
thick; spread with butter and sprinkle on a little sugar; on sugar drop 
carefully a tablespoon of lemon extract; cut into 3 strips and braid 
together; let rise; bake in a moderate oven V 2 hour; very nice cut in 
slices and served with coffee. 

13 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

No. 1. FRUIT PUDDING 

1 pint flour X A cup sugar or dark molasses 

4 teaspoons baking Vz teaspoon nutmeg 

V 2 cup finely chopped suet . % cup each of raisins and cur- 

% cup milk if sugar is used rants 

V 2 cup milk if molasses is used 

Mix dry ingredients together and add sugar, molasses and milk; 

stir well an 1 put in greased moulds; steam 2% hours if put in large 

moulds, or 1V 2 hours if put in individual moulds. 

No. 2. ENGLISH SUET PUDDING 

1 cup dark molasses SV 2 cups flour 

1 short teaspoon soda M cup chopped suet 

1 cup of milk or cider 1 cup chopped raisins 

Dissolve soda in molasses; add milk and stir in suet, flour and 

raisins; steam 3 hours in a large mould, or 1V 2 hours in individual 

moulds. 

No. 3. CALIFORNIA PUDDING 

Cream 1 cup of sugar with V 2 cup butter; add V 2 cup of dark molasses 
into which 1 teaspoon of baking soda has been dissolved; add V 2 cup 
of sour milk, then stir in 2M> cups of flonr and then 1 cup chopped 
raisins; steam 3 hours and serve with whipped cream. 

No. 4. WHITE SUET PUDDING 

1 cup finely chopped suet 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups flour 1 cup raisins or currants 
y 2 cup sugar IV2 cups of milk 

Sift flour and baking powder and mix with the suet and sugar; 
stir the mixture into the milk and add the raisins; steam 2V 2 hours. 

No. 5. BLACK NEW YEAR PUDDING 

1 cup dark molasses 1 grated nutmeg 

1 cup sour milk Vs lb. citron chopped fine 

3 cups flour 4 dry figs chopped f)pe 

y* lb. suet chopped fine 1 doz. almonds chopped fine 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup seeded raisins 

iy 2 teaspoons soda 3 tart apples, minced 

Add the soda to the sour milk and stir into the molasses; mix 
well, then stir in the flour, salt and nutmeg and add the fruit; mix all 
together and steam in a buttered mould for 3 hours; dry 15 minutes in 
oven. Serve with any good pudding sauce. 

14 



No. 6. BROWN BETTY PUDDING 

3 cups diced bread V 2 cup milk 

3 cups diced apples 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 cap sugar small piece of butter 

Wet the bread with the milk and put a layer in a buttered pudding 
dish; cover with apples; add V2 the sugar, sprinkle with cinnamon and 
dot with butter; cover with the rest of the bread and bake % of an 
hour in a moderate oven; serve hot, with a pudding sauce or milk. 

No. 7. STEAMED BREAD PUDDING 

1 pt. dry bread crumbs V2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup molasses or brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

V2 cup raisins V2 teaspoon cloves 

% cup hot water 1 tablespoon butter 

Meit the butter and mix with the sugar or molasses; dissolve soda 
in the hot water and add: then add the bread crumbs and spices and 
stir in th 3 raisins; steam 2 hours in a pound coffee can and serve with 
hard sauce. 

No. 8. BAKED RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk 1 cup raisins 

V 2 cup rice X A teaspoon salt 

Stir rice, raisins, salt and % the milk into a pan and bake for 1 
hoar, stirring often to prevent browning; add the remainder of the 
milk and sweeten to taste; Flavor with vanilla; bake another hour, 
frequently stirring. 

No. 9. JERUSALEM PUDDING 

1 tablespoon gelatine V 2 cup dates 

X A cup cold water V2 cup figs 

V2 cup boiling water % cup sugar 

1 pint cream, whipped 1 cup cold boiled rice 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Soak gelatine in cold water 15 minutes; dissolve with the hot' 
water; add the frait cut fine and the sugar, rice and vanilla; stir well 
and mix in the whipped cream; set on ice in a mold to chill. 

No. 10. CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

W2 cups flour 4 squares chocolate 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons shortening 

1 cup walnuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 

V2 teaspoon salt 
Sift the sugar, flour, salt and baking powder together and add 
the milk; melt the chocolate and shortening and add; fill greased bak- 
ing powder cans % full and steam 1 hour; serve hot with a hard sauce. 

IS 



No. 1. LEMON PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk 1 pint of flour 

Mix all together into a dough and cover pudding dish into which 
a sauce has been placed made as follows: the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, one cup sugar, 2V 2 cups water; bake % of an hour. 

No. 12. COTTAGE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar 1 pint milk 

V 2 cup butter 1 pint flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
Cream butt2r and sugar; add milk and then stir in the flour into 
which the baking powder has been thoroughly sifted; pour into flat 
pan and bake 30 minutes. 

No. 13. NORWEGIAN PUDDING 

One quart stewed prunes, seeded; sweeten to suit the taste; add 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, juice of one lemon and a handful of chopped 
nuts; mix well, put on the fire and stir in enough cornstarch dissolved 
in a little water to make the pudding so that it will drop from a spoon; 
put in molds, set on ice till hard, and serve with cream. 

No. 14. RENNET PUDDING 

To 1 quart of milk warmed a little, add 1V 2 tablespoons of rennet; 
stir carefully and let stand in a cool place for 3 hours; serve from the 
same dish with a little sugar and wine over it, or with sweetened cream 
flavored with vanilla. 

No. 15. CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

1 quart milk 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

V 2 cup sugar V 2 teaspoon salt 

Flavor with vanilla, lemon or chocolate; put milk in a double 
boiler; add sugar and salt; when hot stir in the cornstarch dissolved 
in a little water; stir constantly until mixture thickens and cook 15 or 
20 minutes; put into molds and chill; serve with cream. 

No. 16. RICE TUTTI FRUTTI 

1 pint whipped cream V 2 cup white sugars 

y 2 pint cold boiled rice V 2 dozen figs 

% pkg. of gelatine 1 tablespoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon preserved ginger 
Soak gelatine in little cold water for ten minutes; heat X A cup of 
the cream — not whipped — with the sugar, and when hot add gelatine 
and stir till dissolved; when cold add the rice, figs, flavoring, ginger 
and rest of cream whipped; mold. 

16 



No. 17. LEFTOVER PUDDING 

1 cup cold cooked rice x k cup water 

6 cold biscuits 1 tablespoon butter 

Vz cup sugar V 2 cup raisins 

V 2 cup milk % cup currants 

Crumble the biscuits and mix them with the rice and sugar; then 
add the milk, water, butter melted, raisins and currants; pour into a 
buttered baking dish and bake until firm and brown; make a sauce as 
follows: melt V2 cup butter, add V2 cup of sugar, V2 cup milk and V2 
teaspoon lemon; bring to a boil and serve. 

No. 18. BAVARIAN CREAM 

Dissolve 1 package of gelatine, any flavor desired, in 1 pint of 
boiling water; add V 2 cup sugar and let stand until it begins to harden, 
then fold in 1 pint of whipped cream and turn into a mold and set on 
ice; serve very cold. 

No. 19. FRUIT TAPIOCA PUDDING 

Take 4 teaspoons of prepared minute tapioca; add to 4 cups of 
water; put in a double boiler and set on the stove; cook until clear; 
pour into dish and before it gets solid you may stir in a can of grated 
pineapple, stewed prunes, chopped, or fresh berries of any kind; straw- 
berries, raspberries, cherries or blackberries; let it set and serve cold 
with cream. 

No. 20. EGGLESS DESSERT 

2 cups fine cracker crumbs 2 tablespoons butter 
2V 2 cups apple sauce nutmeg 

Take a 2-quart mold, butter well, sprinkle a layer of crumbs on 
the bottom, dot well with butter; next, a layer of apple sauce over 
which grate nutmeg; repeat, finishing with crumbs and butter and pour 
over the whole 1 cup of grapejuice; bake in a medium oven 30 minutes. 

No. 21. PINEAPPLE DELIGHT 

Boil 2 tablespoons of rice in boiling salted water until tender, then 
drain it; dissolve 1 tablespoon of powdered gelatine in boiling water 
or canned pineapple juice, add % cup of sugar and the rice; cool 
slightly and add one cup of chopped pineapple, a pinch of salt and one 
cup of whipped cream; cool and serve in sherbet glasses; a preserved 
cherry or strawberry may be placed on the top of each. 

No. 22. ORANGE FRITTERS 

lYs cups flour 1 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder x k teaspoon salt 

Make into a batter, then peel 3 or 4 oranges and separate into sec- 
tions; dip each section into the batter and fry in hot lard; serve with 
powdered sugar. 



No. 23. STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

1 cup flour 1 cup molasses 

2 cups Graham flour 3V 2 cups sour milk 

2 cups corn meal 1 teaspoon baking: soda 

V2 teaspoon salt 
Mix molasses with the flour, cornmeal and salt; add the soda to the 
sour milk and stir in well; divide into buttered baking- powder cans and 
steam for 4 hours; serve hot with butter. 

No. 24. PUMPKIN PIE 

1 quart can pumpkin % teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup milk x k teaspoon cloves 

V2 cup sugar .. 2 teaspoons baking powder 

X A teaspoon of salt 
Put the pumpkin in a mixing bowl; stir in the sugar, spices, salt 
and baking powder; add the milk and bake in one bottom crust in hot 
oven. 

No. 25. DATE PIE 

2 cups stoned dates , 3 tablespoons sugar 
1 lemon 2 tablespoons milk 

Cut the dates into bits; add to them the juice and grated rind of 
the lemon, the sugar and milk; fill lower crust with this mixture; 
sprinkle lightly with flour and dot with butter; lay on upper crust and 
bake. 



L8 



25 RECIPES FOR PREPARING AND SERVING 

APPLES 

No. 1. APPLE BISCUIT 

To 1 pint of light' bread sponge add x /4 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon 
of lard and enough graham or whole wheat flour to make a soft dough ; 
beat well and finally work into the dough 1 large cup of chopped apples; 
shape the dough into biscuit and place in muffin tins and let them rise 
very light before baking. 

No. 2. APPLE COBLER 

Pare and quarter enough tart apples to fill a baking dish % full; 
cover with rich baking powder biscuit dough made soft enough to stir; 
spread over apples without rolling; make several cuts in the center to 
allow the steam to escape; bake % of an hour and serve hot with sugar 
and cream. 

No. 3. APPLES EN CASSEROLE 

Pare, core and slice 2 quarts of apples and put in an earthen dish 
alternately with l l / 2 cups of sugar; add X A cup of cold water, cover the 
dish and bake in a moderate oven; serve either hot or cold with cream. 

No. 4. DELMONICO APPLES 

Put a layer of apple sauce in a buttered pudding dish, sprinkle with 
ground almonds, dot with butter and sprinkle with crushed macaroons,; 
add a little water and bake; delicious served with roasts. 

No. 5. APPLE DELIGHT 

Put a layer of apple sauce in a buttered pudding dish, dot with 
butter, add a layer of chopped peaches, sprinkle with almonds ground 
coarsely; repeat until pan is full; pour peach juice over the mixture and 
bake 1 hour; serve as a relish with a meat course. 

No. 6. APPLES WITH FRIED ONION 

Peel the amount of onions you wish to fry, then slice; fry in fat 
until a rich brown; fry unpeelei quarters of apples in the fat left from 
the onions; arrange apples in a border on a platter; fill center with 
fried onions and serve hot. 

19 



No. 7. APPLE GOODIE 

Cut apples into balls with a vegetable scoop, and cook until tender 
in a little syrup to which a little lemon juice has been added; toast 
slices of bread or stale cake; dip in milk to which a little salt and but- 
ter has been added; pile apple balls on slices of bread or cake; add 
bits of any kind of jelly or jam; serve with plain cream. 



No. 8. APPLE MACEDOINE 

Cut a thick slice off the stem end of red apples; core and remove 
the pulp with a potato ball cutter; cook y 2 cup sugar with one cup of 
water; add clean rose geranium leaves and apple balls; cook till the 
balls are tender; when syrup is cold, add juice of one lemon and a 
couple of peaches sliced into small pieces; fill apple shells with the 
mixture and serve as first course at a luncheon. 



No. 9. APPLE PRELINES 

Core and peel six apples and cook in 1V 2 cups of sugar and 2 cups 
of water; make a candy of one cup of sugar, a little water and % cup 
minced nuts; when this begins to carmel, put a spoonful on the top 
of each apple; pour th? syrup in which the apples were cooked over the 
apples and serve with whipped cream. 



No. 10. APPLE PONE 

Pare and chop 1 quart of sweet apples; pour a pint of boiling 
water over 1 quart of oatmeal; when cool, add enough sweet milk to 
make a very soft batter; add two tablespoons of sugar and x fa tea- 
spoon of salt; add the apples and pour into a well-buttered pan, cover 
and bake in a moderate oven two hours. 



No. 11. PORCUPINE APPLES 

Select apples of equal size; pare, core and cook in a syrup made 
of one cup of water to x k cup sugar; boil syrup down and roll apples 
in it; stud with blanched almonds and fill the centers with jelly; serve 
from a large plat3. 



No. 12. APPLES AND RICE 

Pare and core apples, place in a baking dish and fill the holes in 
the apples with chopped raisins and sugar; fill spaces between the 
apples with rice that has been boiled 15 minutes; cover and bake 15 
minutes; remove cover and bake 15 minutes longer; serve with cream. 

20 



No. 13. STUFFED APPLES 

Cut the blossom end off good cooking apples; scoop out the center 
and fill with pecan meats; add two teaspoons of sugar and one teaspoon 
of brandy to each apple; bake with a little water in the pan till tender, 
but not out of shape; just before serving press into each apple 3 or 4 
pecan nuts. 

No. 14. BAKED APPLES WITH OATMEAL 

Core apples; fill space from which the core was taken with cooked 
oatmeal; stand apples in a baking dish, sprinkle with sugar and add 
V 2 cup of water; bake in a moderate oven till soft; serve with cream. 

No. 15. APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Take large baker's buns, slice off the outer crust and cut so as to 
make a cap; brash over with melted butter and place in the oven to 
dry and brown; bake medium size apples from which the cores have 
be:n removed and the center filled with butter and sugar; place apples 
in prepared buns and serve with whipped cream. 

No. 16. APPLE CORNMEAL PUDDING 

Pare, core and slice thin 12 medium sized apples; to one quart 
of sweet milk add 1 quart of cornmeal, 1 teaspoon of salt, 4 table- 
spoons chopped suet, 1 cup molasses, 1 teaspoon of soda dissolved in 
the molasses and the sliced apples; stir well and put into a deep, well- 
battered mold; steam 4 hojrs and serve hot with good pudding sauce. 

No. 17. BREAD AND BUTTER APPLE PUDDING 

Cover the bottom of a shallow, well-battered pudding dish with 
apple sauce; butter slices of stale bread, cut into diamond shaped 
pieces and place as close together as possible over apple sauce, but- 
tered side up; sprinkle with sugar and a few drops of vanilla; bake in 
a moderate oven and serve hot with cream. 

No. 18. BAKED APPLES 

Core as many tart apples as you want to bake; place in a baking 
dish and fill centers with sugar and cinnamon, allowing % cup of sugar 
and Ut teaspoon of cinnamon to 8 apples; cover the bottom of the dish 
with boiling water, bake in a hot oven till soft, basting often with the 
syrup in the dish; serve hot or cold with cream. 

No. 19. APPLE BUTTER CANAPES 

Cut thick slices of brown bread, cut out round pieces with a bis- 
cuit cutter; spread each piece with apple batter; in the center place 
an English walnut meat and arrange a border of chopped nuts around 
the edge; serve with cheese cubes. 

21 



No. 20. DRIED APPLE BUTTER 

Wash 1 pound of dried or evaporated apples thoroughly, soak over 
night; in the morning cook with plenty of water; when well done, rub 
through a sieve; add sugar and cinnamon to taste, the juice of one 
lemon, juice of two oranges and butter the size of an egg; cook slowly 
until it will drop heavily from a spoon. 

No. 21. APPLE CHARLOTTE 

Soak. x k box of granulated gelatine in 2 tablespoons cold water; add 
1 pint of hot apple sauce, flavor and press through a sieve; as soon 
as the mixture bagins to harden, stir in 1 pint of whipped cream; line 
a mold with ladyfingers, pour in the mixture and set away to cool. 

No. 22. CODDLED APPLES 

Take tart, ripe apples of uniform size; remove the cores; place 
theni ! in the bottom of a porcelain kettle; cover thickly with sugar; 
cover the bottom of the kettle with water and allow the apples to 
simmer till tender; pour the syrup over the apples and serve cold. 

No. 23. FRIED APPLES 

Quarter and core 5 apples without paring; put into a frying pan 
1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter and 3 tablespoons of water; let 
this melt and lay in the apples with the skin up; cover and fry slowly 
until brown. 

No. 21. APPLE GELATINE 

feover Mj box of gelatin with Mj cup of cold water and let stand 
V 2 hour; pare, core and quarter 6 tart apples; add the thin yellow rind 
of a lemon, cover with sweet cider or water, boil and press through a 
sieve; add 1 cup of sugar and juice of 1 lemon; pour over the gelatin, 
mix, turn into a mold and let harden; serve with cream or cider sauce. 

No. 25. APPLE CUP 

Core fine grained apples; pare except one ring around the center; 
cut celery hearts very fine; mix with mayonnaise dressing to which a 
little salt, pepper and half the whole amount of dressing of whipped 
cream has been added; fill the centers of the apples with the mixture 
and round up a little; serve on lettuce leaves. 



RECIPES FOR CHOP SUEY, CHILI CON CARNE, 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH AND ITALIAN 

SPAGHETTI 

No. 1. IMITATION CHOP SUEY 

Take V 2 pound of round steak and V 2 pound salt pork; cut into 
%-inch pieces; put into a hot frying pan and brown; cover and cook 
slowly for ten minutes; cut two stalks of celery and two onions into 
small pieces, add to the meat and continue to cook slowly for 20 min- 
utes more, stirring all the time; when done, add \y 2 tablespoons of 
dark molasses; thicken a little and serve with rice cooked very dry. 

No. 2. CHOP SUEY WITH MUSHROOMS 

Take 3 pounds of fresh lean pork, 6 stalks of celery and 10 good 
sized onions; cut into small pieces; put a tablespoon of butter into an 
iron kettle; when hot, add the pork; cook 20 minutes and add the 
onions; cook 10 minutes and add the celery; cook 20 minutes and stir 
all th3 time; then stir in 2 tablespoons of cornstarch moistened with 
2 tablespoons of water and Chinese sauce to thin; remove from the 
fire and add a can of mushrooms well drained, 8 Chinese potatoes cut 
small; serve with rice. Buy the Chinese sauce and potatoes at a 
Chinese grocery. 

No. 3. CHICKEN CHOP SUEY 

2 lbs. breast of chicken V 2 can bamboo shoots 

2 tablespoons pure chicken fat 2 lbs. bean sprouts 

6 stalks celery V 2 teaspoon salt 

1 doz. chestnuts 3 tablespoons of suey 

2 white onions dash of cayenne 

Put the 2 spoonfuls of chicken fat which has been fried out into an 
iron kettle; when hot, put in the breast of chicken cut in small pieces 
and fry a light golden brown; take the celery and cut into pieces; cut 
the mushrooms in halves; cut the chestnuts into thin slices; chop the 
onions and bamboo sprouts; add everything to the chicken together 
with the suey sauce, V 2 teaspoon of salt and the cayenne; cook alto- 
gether for 10 minutes; add the bean sprouts and V 2 teaspoon sugar; 
let all simmer for 15 minutes; serve hot with rice well boiled and cooked 
without stirring; the Chinese ingredients used in preparing the chop 
suey may be obtained at a Chinese grocery store. 



No. 4. MEXICAN CHILE CONCARNI 

Take a piece of suet the size of a teacup; chop fine and fry out; 
remove cracklings, and while hot put in 1 pound of hamburger steak; 
fry brown, breaking the meat into bits the size of a pea; strain 1 can 
of tomatoes into a kettle and pour meat in; add 1 pod of garlic or 3 
large onions, if preferred, and 1 tablespoon of salt, x k teaspoon paprika 
and 1 tablespoon of vinegar; cook about 1V 2 hours until the onions or 
garlic is well done; add 1 pint of water and 1 can of kidney beans; 
heat 10 minutes and serve hot. 

No. 5. HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

2 lbs. round steak 6 stalks of celery 

14 lb. salt pork V2 can tomatoes 

2 onions 1 bay leaf 

2 tablespoons of flour 2 whole cloves 

Cut the salt pork into cubes and fry till the fat flows freely; cut 
the beef in larger pieces and roll in flour and brown slightly in the fat; 
add the tomatoes, onions, spices and celery, the latter cut in small 
pieces; salt and pepper to taste; pour over enough water to cover and 
boil 3% hours, adding more water as it boils away. 

No. 6. ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 

Boil V2 pound of spaghetti 20 minutes in hot water; cool and drain; 
make a pint of tomato sauce, using a small can tomatoes, adding 2 pods 
of garlic and 1 onion minced; pour this over the spaghetti and add 1 
ounce of salt pork minced and partially fried, and V.\ cup of grated 
cheese; cover closely and cook very slowly about 1 hour. 



24 



A FEW BOMBS AIMED AT THE HIGH COST 

OF LIVING 

such as 

Coffee substitute at 3 cents a pound. 

Cereal coffee at 5 cents a pound. 

How to make 2 pounds of butter from 1 pound. 

How to make 1 pound of butter from a pint of milk. 

How to make artificial maple syrup. 

How to make artificial honey. 

Apple butter without apples. 

Cider without apples. 

Anyone of the above recipes mailed to you for 15 cents, or all 
eight of them for $1.00 with full instructions. 

I also have hundreds of tried and tested Household, Medical and 
Toilet recipes, such as Cleaning Compounds, Washing Compounds, 
Furniture Polishss, Dry Carpet Cleaner, Polishing Cloths, Hard and 
Soft Soaps, Blueings, Fly Paper and Poisons, Mending Tissue, Liquid 
Court Plaster, Rat Exterminator, Bedbug Poison, Cockroach and Ant 
Exterminator, Baking Powders, Cements, All Colors and Kinds of Inks, 
Catarrah Cures, Eczema, Asthma, Bitters, Boils, Carbuncles, Burns, 
Colic, Superfluous Hair Remover, Earache, Fevers, Headache, Malaria, 
Pain Killers, Rheumatism, Soothing Syrup without Opiates, Warts, 
Worms and Wrinkles, Face Powders, Foot Powders, Cold Creams, 
Shampoo, Corn Cures, Cough Drops, Hair Restorative, Hair Dyes, 
Toilet Waters, etc. Also have Thousands of Recipes of great value 
to the Farmer, Mechanic, Manufacturer, Painter, Poultryman, and all 
lines of Business. Will furnish any recipe with full instructions for 
10 cents, or any 3 for 25 cents. Write me your needs and you will 
receive prompt attention. 

Sincerely, 

O. H. THOMPSON, 

2624 Calumet Ave. Chicago, 111. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

■in 

013 974 736 7 J 



