Eighth Series, No. 17 April 21, 1917 






l^eacfjers; College bulletin 




Economical Diet and Cookery 
in Time of Emergency 

By 
Mary Swartz Rose 

A ssistanl Professor of Household A rts. Teachers College 

Cora Marguerite Winchell 

A ssistanl Professor of Household A rts Education, Teachers College 

Bertha E. Shapleigh 

Instructor in Cooking, Teachers College 
Technical Education Bulletin, No. 30 



Published by 

ts:eacf)ers! College, Colum&ia iKnibergitp 

525 West 1 20th Street 
New York City 



Ntorwfnpr 



War Emergency Bulletins 

The following bulletins, published by Teachers College in the Technical 
Education Bulletin series, are selected because of their interest in time of 
emergency. 

No. 30. Economical Diet and Cookery in Time of Emergency. Professors Rose 
and Winchell and Miss Shapleigh, Teachers College. 12 pp. 15 cents. 

No. 31. Simple Lessons on the Physical Care of Children. Dr. Josephine Hemen- 
way Kenyon. 20 cents. 

No. 32. Lessons in Home Nursing. Professor Isabel M. Stewart, Teachers College. 
12 pp. 15 cents. 

No. 33. How TO Plan Meals in Time of War, with Economical Menus and 
Directions for Marketing. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers 
College. 16 pp. 20 cents. 

No. 34. Ninety Tested, Palatable and Economical Recipes for the Housewife. 
Professor May B. Van Arsdale, Teachers College. 20 pp. 30 cents. 

No. 3. The Feeding of Young Children. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers 
College. 12 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 4. Hints on Clothing. Professor Mary Schenck Woolman. 8 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 5. Qu.\ntitative Aspects of Nutrition. Professor Henry C. Sherman, Teach- 
ers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 7. Determination OF Linen and Cotton. Dr. Herzog. Translated by Ellen A. 
Beers, B.S. 24 ill., 2 color prints. 25 cents. 

No. 18. Canned Foods: Fruits and Vegetables. Florence R. Corbett, formerly 
Instructor in Household Arts, Teachers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 19. Physical and Chemical Tests for the Housewife. Sadie B. Vanderbilt, 
Instructor in Household Chemistry, Teachers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 22. Some Attempts to Standardize Oven Temperatures for Cookery Pro- 
cesses. Professor May B. Van Arsdale, Teachers College. 16 pp. lo cents. 

No. 23. Food for School Boys and Girls. Professor Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers 
College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 26. A Survey of Your Household Finances. Professor Benjamin R. Andrews. 
Teachers College. 16 pp. 10 cents. 

No. 27. Some Food Facts to Help the Housewif^ in Feeding the Family. Pro- 
fessor Mary Swartz Rose, Teachers College. 8 pp. 5 cents. 

A complete list will be sent on application. Prices include postage. 

Bureau of Publications 

Teachers College Columbia University 

New York City 



TEACHERS COLLEGE BULLETIN 

Published fortnightly from September to May inclusive. Entered as second-class 

matter January 15, 1910, at the New York, N. Y., Post Office, 

under act of July 16, 1894. 






<^ 






ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY 
IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

INTRODUCTION 

What food is for: 

1. Like machines, our bodies need /we/. Engines have coal, auto- 
mobiles have gasoline, stoves have gas, men ha.ve food. This gives 
working strength. Many kinds of food are useful as body fuel. Some 
of the best examples are: bread (white, graham, rye, corn, etc.); 
cereals (oatmeal, cornmeal, hominy, rice, flaked wheat, wheatena, 
barley); fats (butter, and oleomargarin, olive and cottonseed oil, 
fat of meats) ; starches (cornstarch, tapioca) ; sugars (white, brown) 
and syrups (corn syrup, molasses) ; dried peas and beans (of all 
kinds) ; potatoes, bananas, figs, dates. 

(Become acquainted with lOO-calorie portions of each of above 
types of foods.) 

2. Like machines, our bodies need repair. The automobile has 
new bolts, new screws; the body needs material to renew old parts. 
It also has to build itself out of food. Babies grow to be men be- 
cause they have food. Not all foods furnish good building material. 
(Two classes — like wood and glass for houses.) Some good exam- 
ples: 

Class A. Milk, dried peas and beans, cheese, eggs, peanuts, lean 
part of meat, fish (fresh and salt). Some food from this list is 
needed every meal. 

These are both building and fuel foods. Study lOO-calorie por- 
tions. 

Class B. Milk (skimmed, buttermilk, whole), peas and beans 
(dried or fresh), spinach, carrots, tomatoes, apples (fresh or dried), 
dried peaches, raisins, figs, dates, other fruits and vegetables. Some 
food from this list is needed at least once a day. 

3. Like machines, our bodies have to be regulated. Oil for the 
wheels, food for the body. Only certain foods serve this purpose: 
Water (desirable before each meal) ; vegetables, such as peas, beans, 
carrots, onions, tomatoes, spinach and all kinds of 'greens'; fruits, 

Copyright 191 7, by Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. 



4 ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

such as apples, oranges, prunes, dates, raisins, figs, and other kinds 
fresh or dried. 

Note that building foods of the second class also make good regu- 
lating foods. 

Spend most of your money for fuel foods, but some for the two 
kinds of building foods. Do not spend money for tea and coffee, 
which are not foods at all. If you have real food you will not need 
them. They are very bad for children. They interfere with good 
body building, 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

What is the place of meat in the diet? Must we spend our money 
for it in order to be well, or can we save the money for something 
else? 

We will see how far it meets the needs of the body: 

1. Is it good fuel? {Yes) Is it a better fuel than milk, for exam- 
ple? (No) It takes a pound and a quarter of lean beef to equal in 
fuel value one quart of milk; cost of beef 30 cents, of milk 8 or 10 
cents. ^ 

Fat of meat is higher in fuel value than lean. Beef dripping, 
bacon fat, salt pork fat should be carefully saved. They are all good 
fuel, and take the place of butter. 

2. Is it good building material? (Yes) Is it better building ma- 
terial than all other kinds of building foods? (No) Milk is even 
better and also cheaper. Peas, beans, cheese, and peanuts make 
excellent meat substitutes. 

3. Is it good regulating material? (No) It has to be supple- 
mented by other kinds of food always. Too much meat is unwhole- 
some; most people eat more than is wise unless they have learned 
something about the food value of meat. 

HOW TO GET ALONG WITHOUT MEAT 

Milk, peanut butter, and cheese are very convenient meat sub- 
stitutes because they can be used without cooking. We like a hot 
dish with dinner, however, so some of the fuel-and-building foods 
which can be served hot are worth studying. 

1 Prices April, 19 17. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 5 

CHOICE OF DISHES 

Recipes furnished — dishes to be prepared 

1. Bean or pea loaf served with carrots and cream sauce (cream 
sauce may be omitted or tomato sauce substituted). 

2. Macaroni, bacon and milk gravy. 

3. Macaroni, spaghetti or noodles, rice or hominy, baked with 
cheese and cream sauce or tomato sauce. 

4. Kidney bean stew. 

It is always desirable to study the food value of each dish and its 
relation to the diet as a whole, for example : 

1. Pea Loaf with Carrots and Cream Sauce. Peas furnish good 
fuel, the amount used yields as much building material of the kind 
in meat as eight ounces of lean round steak, much more of the other 
kinds of building material than meat and a good supply of regulating 
materials. Carrots furnish some fuel, certain kinds of building and 
regulating material not found in meat; Milk, a good all-round food; 
Flour and butter furnish additional fuel. The whole dish is a meal 
in itself, good for the whole family except the children under two 
years. The latter should have mostly milk. 

SUGGESTED MENU FOR A DAY 

Breakfast: Oatmeal, toast, milk or cocoa made with milk for children, coffee with 

hot milk for adults. 
Dinner: Pea loaf with cream sauce and carrots, bread (graham) and oleomar- 

garin. 
Supper: Rice baked with cheese and tomatoes, bread (graham), oleomargarin, 

stewed prunes, milk for children to drink. 

Bean or Pea Loaf 

I cup dried peas or beans, cook until tender, rub through a colander or coarse sieve; 
add I K cups of stale bread crumbs; iK cups of skimmed milk; 2 teaspoons sugar; 
I teaspoon salt; yi teaspoon pepper; y^ cup bacon fat, drippings or butter. 
(An egg slightly beaten, may be added if not too expensive.) Turn into a buttered 
mould, and bake slowly i hour. Baked beans may be used in this dish. 

2. Macaroni with Milk Gravy and Bacon. Macaroni, fine fuel, 
some building material of Class A; Milk, a good all-round food; 
Bacon, good fuel (fat) and flavor. This dish is best supplemented 
by a green vegetable, though it may make a meal in itself, served 
with graham or rye bread. At another meal peas, beans, nuts, or 
considerable milk should be furnished. 



6 ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

SUGGESTED MENU FOR A DAY 

Breakfast: Cornmeal mush with milk, toast, milk or cocoa made with milk for 

children, coffee with hot milk for adults. 
Dinner: Macaroni with bacon and milk gravy, graham bread and oleomargarin, 

greens, if possible. 
Supper: Baked beans, dried apple sauce, rye bread, milk for children to drink. 

Macaroni with Milk Gravy and Bacon 

Break macaroni in inch pieces and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain 
and mix with milk gravy. Garnish with bacon. As bacon cooks in frying pan, be 
careful that fat does not burn, and as it gathers, turn off, leaving the pieces of 
bacon to become crisp. The fat may be used in all kinds of cooking. 

Milk Gravy: In the pan put 4 tablespoons bacon fat, add 3 tablespoons flour, }4 
teaspoon salt, yi teaspoon pepper, and 2 cups skim milk (half water and half milk 
may be used). Stir and cook until milk reaches boiling point, and the sauce 
thickens. 

3. Macaroni or Noodles with Cheese and Cream Sauce. Macaroni : 
fine fuel, some building material of Class A. Cheese, good building 
material of Class A and some of Class B. One ounce has more build- 
ing material like that in meat than one ounce of lean beef. Milk, a 
good all-round food. Flour and fat furnish additional fuel. 

This dish is a meal in itself. It is best supplemented by a green 
vegetable or graham bread, for regulating material. 

SUGGESTED MENU FOR A D.\Y 

Breakfast: Hominy with milk, toast, milk or cocoa made with milk for children to 
drink, coffee with hot milk for adults. 

Dinner: Noodles with cheese and cream sauce, graham bread and oleomar- 
garin, greens, if possible. 

Supper: Stewed lima beans, cornmeal muffins, rice baked with raisins and served 
with milk, milk for young children to drink. 

Noodles Baked with Cream Sauce and Cheese 

Cook noodles in boiling, salted water until soft, drain and put a layer in buttered 
baking dish. Cover with a layer of cream sauce and a layer of cheese. Repeat 
until dish is full, having cheese on top. Bake 15 minutes. Two cups of noodles 
will require one cup of sauce and one-fourth to one-half cup grated cheese. 

Sauce: 2 tablespoons fat; lyi tablespoons flour; i cup skim milk (or half milk 
and half water). Salt and pepper to taste. 

4. Kidney Bean Stew. Kidney beans, good fuel and building 
material. One pint of beans furnishes as much building material of 
the kind in meat as eight ounces of lean round of beef, and much 



CEREALS AND BREADS 7 

more of other kinds of building material than meat, besides a good 
supply of regulating materials. Tomatoes, good regulating food. 
Rice, flour, fat: furnish some fuel. This dish is a meal in itself, 
though graham or rye bread and oleomargarin may be added. For 
very little children the beans should be put through a sieve and a 
little milk added to make a thick soup. 

SUGGESTED MENU FOR A DAY 

Breakfast: Mush made of cornmeal and white farina in equal parts, toast, milk or 
cocoa made with milk for children, coffee with hot milk for adults. 

Dinner: Kidney bean stew, rye bread, and oleomargarin. 

Supper: Scalloped carrots, Boston brown bread and oleomargarin, stewed dried 
peaches, milk for children to drink. 

Kidney Bean Stew 

1 cup kidney beans; i small onion; 2 tablespoons of rice; 2 cups canned tomatoes; 

2 tablespoons pork or bacon fat or drippings; 2 tablespoons flour; salt and pepper 
to taste. 

Soak beans over night in cold water to cover. In the morning place beans over 
fire, adding water to cover, if necessary. Cook slowly until beans are soft. Then 
add the tomatoes, onions, rice and seasonings and simmer until the rice is very soft. 
There should be about a quart and a half of stew, and if there is not, add water. 
Mix the flour and fat, and use to thicken the stew. 



CEREALS AND BREADS 

Grains are one of our most important kinds of food. This is true 
whether we use them cracked, rolled or coarsely ground and call 
them 'breakfast foods', or buy them as flour and bread. Let us see 
how far they go towards making a good diet. 

In the first place, they are good fuel. We can almost always get 
more working force for our money from cereals (grain products) than 
from any other kind of food. The less money we have to spend, the 
more we need to depend upon them for our body fuel. 

(It is helpful to be fully acquainted with loo-calorie portions of 
cereal foods, and to note cost per 100 calories as compared with 
beef, bacon, butter, and even beans.) 

In the second place, they furnish building material like that 
found in meat, eggs, cheese, etc. (Class A), in such amounts that 
when we have oatmeal for breakfast we do not need meat too, and 
when we cook macaroni with milk and cheese it takes the place of 
both meat and potatoes. 



8 ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

In the third place, when the whole grain is eaten, as in using oat- 
meal, flaked wheat, cornmeal, whole wheat bread, we get good 
supplies of other kinds of building material and do not need such 
large amounts of fruit and vegetables, which are more expensive. 

In the fourth place, the bran of cereals helps to regulate the 
bowels and in this way, too, cereals partly take the place of vegeta- 
bles like cabbage. The bran contains many kinds of regulating ma- 
terials and when we are trying to get a very serviceable, all-round 
food, it pays to buy a breakfast cereal or a kind of bread which is 
dark rather than white. A loaf of whole wheat bread supplies not 
only what we could get in a loaf of white bread, but what we could 
get in a serving of spinach besides. We have a bad habit of pre- 
ferring rice snow white. This is all right if we can have all the fruit 
and vegetables we wish; otherwise it would be more profitable to 
buy rice with its outer light brown coat on. 

It is important for children to learn to like cereals. They are 
better food for growth than white bread. 

The cooking of cereals is very important. They do not have a 
good flavor unless they are cooked a long time, and they must have 
just the right stiff^ness, with no lumps. Besides mush for breakfast 
or supper, there are many other good things to eat which can be 
made from breakfast cereals, meals, and flours. 

CHOICE OF DISHES 
Recipes furnished — dishes to be prepared 

I . Oatmeal 

a. as a breakfast food, served with milk, if possible; if not, with 
butter and, if desired, a little sugar. This ought to be the 
standard breakfast dish for the whole family. It must be 
strained for children under one and one-half years old and 
served with milk but no sugar. 

b. as a pudding, combined with brown sugar, milk, some kind of 
fruit (dates, raisins or bananas), and baked. This is almost a 
meal in itself. With bread and butter and a glass of milk it 
will make an excellent supper. 

Oatmeal Mush 
I cup rolled oats; i teaspoon salt; 2 cups boiling water. Add oatmeal and salt 
slowly to the water which should be boiling; cook over direct heat two minutes, 
then steam for three or four hours. A double boiler, or a covered pail set in boiling 
water, or a fireless cooker may be used for steaming any cereals. 



CEREALS AND BREADS 9 

Oatmeal and Fruit Pudding 

I cup cooked oatmeal; 3 tablespoons molasses or 2 tablespoons brown sugar; 2 
apples. Pare and slice apples; into a buttered dish put a layer of oatmeal, a layer 
of apples and brown sugar; repeat and bake until apples are soft. Serve with milk 
and sugar. This pudding may be varied by using dates, raisins, or any cooked 
dried fruit, as apricots or peaches. 

2. Cornmeal 

a. as a breakfast food. It must be cooked longer than oatmeal 
and must not be stiff or lumpy. It is much improved by add- 
ing a little milk shortly before serving. It is better to give 
children under two years of age oatmeal. 

b. fried and served plain as a 'vegetable' at dinner, or with syrup 
as a 'dessert'. 

c. as corn bread, e.g., johnny cake or dodgers. Dififerent kinds 
of bread make variety in the diet, which everyone enjoys. 
Corn bread is economical and wholesome and one of the best 
kinds of bread to serve warm. 

d. as pudding, with milk and molasses, baked; as a batter, 
steamed and served with brown sugar sauce. The baked pud- 
ding is a meal in itself. For children it should be served with 
milk if possible. With bread and cheese the steamed pudding 

• will also make a good meal. 

e. combined with meat, e.g., in scrappel, as the main dish for 
dinner or supper. 

Cornmeal Mush 

I cup cornmeal; i cup cold water; i teaspoon salt; 2 cups boiling water. Mix 
cornmeal, salt, and cold water; add to boiling water. Cook over fire for two min- 
utes, then steam six hours. Serve plain as a vegetable, or as a dessert with syrup. 
Mush may be moulded, cut in slices, rolled in flour, and fried in salt pork fat or any 
preferred fat. 

Corn Dodgers 

1 pint cornmeal ; i teaspoon salt ; i pint boiling water. Pour boiling water over 
cornmeal mixed with salt. Cool, shape into cakes four to five inches long and one 
and one-half inches wide. Cook on a hot griddle or in a hot oven until crisp and 
brown. 

Johnny Cake 

2 cups cornmeal; i teaspoon salt; i cup flour; 3 teaspoons baking powder; 2 
tablespoons beef suet; 2 tablespoons sugar; 1% cups milk or ^ cup milk and i 
cup water. Mix all together, pour into a buttered tin and bake thirty minutes in a 
moderately hot oven. 



10 ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

Dropped Corn Bread 

2 cups cornmeal; i teaspoon salt ; I tablespoon sugar ; 2 cups boiling water. Pour 
boiling water over sugar, meal and salt; let stand until cold. Drop by spoonfuls 
into hot fat and fry until a light brown. 

Indian Pudding 

1 quart milk; >^ cup molasses; ^ cup cornmeal; 2 teaspoons ginger; i teaspoon 
salt; I cup cold milk. Pour milk, scalded, over meal, and cook twenty minutes; 
add salt, ginger and molasses. Cook slowly in a buttered baking dish two hours. 
When half done, add the cold milk and finishing cooking. 

Steamed Cornmeal Pudding 

xyi cups yellow cornmeal; yi cup graham flour; >^ teaspoon salt; 3 teaspoons 
baking powder; yi, cup molasses; % pound raisins; milk to make a soft batter 
(about I cup). Pour into a buttered mould, cover and steam four hours. 

Cornmeal Scrappel 

2 lbs. shin of beef; i teaspoon salt; i medium onion; yi teaspoon pepper; 2 
quarts cold water; i cup cornmeal. Cook onion thinly sliced in beef marrow or 
suet. Add to water with meat and bone and cook until meat is tender. Let cool, 
skim off fat, and remove bone. To liquid remaining, add enough water to make 
one quart. Add cornmeal and salt and cook one hour. Turn into a mould, cool, 
cut in slices and fry in pork fat until brown. Serve with or without gravy. 

3. Pearl Hominy or Samp 

This may be served plain, baked with cheese or fried in savory fat. 

The longer samp (pearl hominy) is cooked the better it gets. 
Begin by serving it plain with something that has a good deal 
of flavor. The next day serve it heated up with cheese, and 
the third day fry what is left. In any of these forms it is a good 
substitute for potatoes or macaroni. 

Pearl Hominy or Samp 

I cup hominy or samp; i teaspoon salt; 6 cups boiling water. Cook six hours or 
more. 

4. Rice 

This may be steamed (not boiled), baked with cheese, served as 

Turkish pilaf, Spanish rice, or a pudding. 
Steamed rice takes the place of bread or potatoes in a meal very 

nicely. A good gravy will give it flavor if it seems tasteless. 

White rice gives us almost nothing besides fuel. It makes an 

all-round food when combined with milk and cheese, with 

tomatoes and cheese, or milk and fruit. 



CEREALS AND BREADS II 



Steamed Rice 



I cup rice; 3 cups boiling water; i teaspoon salt; i cup hot milk. Wash rice, add 
salt and boiling water and steam until water has been taken up by the rice. Add 
hot milk and finish cooking. Rice will steam tender in one hour. 

Turkish Pilaf 

I cup washed rice; i lb. raw lean beef or lamb; i teaspoon salt; 2 cups boiling 
water; i small onion or 2 cloves garlic; 2 cups tomatoes; 2 tablespoons olive oil 
or any fat. Fry onion cut in small pieces or garlic in the fat until slightly brown; 
add rice, seasonings, water, tomatoes, meat, and cook in a covered dish until the 
rice is soft. The meat may be omitted, the rice cooked in the tomatoes and water, 
and the whole covered with grated cheese and baked until cheese is melted. 

Spanish Rice 

I cup rice ; )4 green pepper ; K^ lb. salt pork ; ^ teaspoon salt ; ^ onion ; i ^2 cups 
strained tomato; >^ pimento. Parboil rice in water five minutes. Fry onion and 
peppers in salt pork fat. Add rice. Cook until rice is tender. 

Rice Pudding with Raisins 

^ cup rice; 1^ quarts boiling water; ^2 cup raisins; ^2 teaspoon salt; i cup 
milk; J4 cup sugar. Stir the rice into the boiling salted water and cook until it is 
about half done which will be about fifteen minutes. Drain the rice, add the milk, 
sugar, and raisins, and place in a greased baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven 
for about 45 minutes. 

5. Bread from a mixture of flours (rye, wheat, corn) 

When wheat flour and wheat bread are expensive, we can make 
excellent food from a combination of flours. They will be 
good fuel and good sources of building and regulating material. 
At any time they add variety to the diet. 

Corn Bread 

3 cups cornmeal; i cup wheat flour; 2 tablespoons fat (drippings or bacon fat); 
i>2 teaspoons salt; i cup boiling water or }4 cup scalded milk and ^ cup water; 
I yeast cake soaked in }4 cup warm water. Mix liquid, which has cooled, with dry 
materials; add melted fat and yeast. Beat well; pour into a buttered pan or 
pans — let rise, and bake one and one-half hours. 

MENUS SHOWING GOOD USE OF CEREALS 

I. Breakfast: Oatmeal with milk, toast, coffee with hot milk for adults. Milk 
or cocoa made with milk for children. 
Dinner: Stewed lima beans, corn bread and oleomargarin, carrot and 

orange marmalade. 
Supper: Rice baked with cheese, stewed apricots, molasses cookies. 



12 ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

II. Breakfast: Cornmeal mush with milk, toast and coffee, etc., as above. 

Dinner: Vegetable soup with barley and rice, rye bread and oleomargarin, 

baked cornmeal pudding. 
Slipper: Baked beans, Boston brown bread (bean soup or leftover vegetable 

soup for little children), stewed dried peaches and raisins. 

III. Breakfast: Hominy grits with milk, fried bread with syrup, coffee and milk 
as above. 
Dinner: Stew with vegetables and dumplings, graham bread and oleomar- 
garin, rice pudding. 
Supper: Graham bread and peanut butter, bananas, cocoa. 



DRIED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Try to have one kind of fruit or one kind of vegetable (both, if 
possible) in the diet every day. These are very valuable for certain 
regulating materials which we are not so likely to get in other kinds 
of food. Fruits and vegetables also supply many kinds of building 
materials (Class B) and some of them are good fuel. It is best 
economy to buy those which furnish fuel as well as building and 
regulating material. 

The housewife should be familiar with lOO-calorie portions and 
compare them with equal portions of cereals. 

The cheapest fresh fruit depends upon where one lives and the 
season of the year. Taking it the whole year round, bananas are in 
many places the cheapest fresh fruit. But dried fruits we may have 
all the year round at about the same price and this is usually less 
than for fresh fruit, so it pays to know how to use dried fruit. 

In the winter fresh vegetables are apt to be scarce and expensive. 
Dried vegetables are a great help in getting a good diet without 
great cost. They should not take the place of fruit altogether, how- 
ever. If you cannot have both fruit and vegetable every day, try to 
have part of the time one and part the other. Vegetables, like 
fruits, differ much in their fuel value. (One should study the size of 
lOO-calorie portions and compare with fruits.) Since the main rea- 
son for eating vegetables is for the building and regulating materials 
which they contain, care must be taken to save the water used in 
cooking, or these valuable substances are likely to be lost. 

Children under two years of age should have fruit juice between 
two of their morning meals (nine o'clock is a good time), and once a 
day those between one and two years old should have from a tea- 



DRIED NUTS AND VEGETABLES I3 

spoon to a tablespoon of some green vegetable like spinach or of 
dried or canned peas, or carrots, put through a sieve. 

For the rest of the family, try to have a vegetable with the 
dinner, such as spinach, carrots, tomatoes, or greens, along with a 
dish of rice, macaroni, or beans, and stewed fruit or a fruit pudding at 
supper time. 

Menus given above illustrate such uses of fruit and vegetables. 

CHOICE OF DISHES 

Recipes furnished — dishes to be prepared 

1. Stewed Fruit 

Stewed prunes, apricots or peaches, or a combination of two 
fruits, e.g., peaches and raisins, prunes and apricots, raisins 
and figs. 

Stewed Prunes 

}4 lb. prunes; 1^4 cups water; i tablespoon sugar. Wash prunes. Soak over- 
night in cold water. Cook in water in which they were soaked, until skins are 
tender. Slow cooking for 5 or 6 hours is best. Add sugar about five minutes be- 
fore taking fruit from the fire. 

Stewed Peaches with Raisins 

^ lb. dried peaches; ^ cup raisins; >2 cup sugar. Wash peaches, soak overnight 
with water enough to cover and stew in water in which they were soaked. When 
about half done, add the raisins, which have been washed and seeded, and the 
sugar. Cook slowly that the peaches may keep their shape and skins become 
tender. 

2. Marmalades 

Carrot and orange, date or date and cranberry. 

Such marmalades make a substitute for butter on bread and 

afiford not only fuel and flavor, but also building and regulating 

material which butter does not furnish. 

Carrot Marmalade 

3 pounds of carrots; 3 pounds of sugar; i lemon (juice and grated rind); 2 
oranges (juice and grated rind). Wash, scrape and steam carrots until soft, chop 
fine and mix with fruit and sugar. Cook gently one hour. 

Date and Cranberry Marmalade 

I quart cranberries; i pound dates (stoned); i pint water; 2 cups brown sugar. 
Simmer together for twenty minutes cranberries, dates and water, put through a 
sieve, add sugar and cook fifteen minutes longer. 



14 ECONOMICAL DIET AND COOKERY IN TIME OF EMERGENCY 

3. Puddings with Dried Fruit 

Combinations of flour, cornstarch, rice, etc., with fruit result in 
dishes high in fuel, excellent in flavor and rich in certain build- 
ing materials (Class B). They need to be supplemented by 
foods containing the kind of building material found in meat, 
eggs, milk, dried beans and peas (Class A). 

Norwegian Prune Pudding 

yi pound prunes; 4 tablespoons cold water; yi cup sugar; 1% cups cold water; 
% cup boiling water; i small stick cinnamon; 3 tablespoons cornstarch. Soak 
the prunes for one hour in cold water. Cook in water in which they soaked until 
they are tender. Remove the prune seeds and cut prunes into bits. Add sugar, 
boiling water, and cinnamon and simmer for ten minutes. To the cornstarch add 
the four tablespoons of cold water, mixing to a paste. Add this slowly to the prune 
mixture and cook for ten minutes. Remove stick of cinnamon, and pour into 
mould. Serve cold. 

Scalloped Apples 

1 pint sliced apples; y^ cup sugar; i pint soft stale bread crumbs; i teaspoon cin- 
namon; % cup melted oleomargarin, }4 cup water. Mix bread crumbs with oleo- 
margarin and put a layer in a buttered dish; add a layer of sliced apples, sprinkle 
with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Repeat until all material is used, having 
crumbs on top. Add water, and bake in a slow oven until crumbs are browned. 

4. Bread and Biscuit with Dried Fruits, as Date Bread or Biscuit 

Fruits add building and regulating material to bread and give the 
bread a pleasant flavor, so that more will be eaten. They are 
especially valuable for giving a little variety to the diet. 

Date Bread {one loaf) 

2 cups flour; 14 lb. dates (stoned and cut in small pieces); 2 teaspoons baking 
powder; %^ cup milk or water; J54^ cup granulated sugar; ^ teaspoon salt ; i egg. 
Mix flour, baking powder and salt. Add milk, egg slightly beaten and dates. Turn 
into a buttered pan and bake slowly one hour. It can then be cut, when cold, into 
slices. 

Date or Raisin Biscuits 

2 cups flour; 14 teaspoon salt; 4 teaspoons baking powder; i tablespoon fat; 
about ^ cup milk; yi cup dates (stoned and quartered), or raisins. Mix flour, 
baking powder and salt. Cut in fat with a knife or fingers, and moisten to a soft 
dough with the milk. Add dates, turn upon a floured board, pat and roll out to 
one-third inch in thickness. Cut with a cutter, place in buttered pan and bake in a 
hot oven fifteen minutes. 



VEGETABLES I 5 

VEGETABLES 

I. Fresh Vegetables 

Steamed spinach, creamed carrots, potato soiip, scalloped to- 



matoes. 



Creamed Carrots 



4 medium sized carrots. Wash and scrape and cut in slices. Cover with boiling 
water to which one teaspoon salt has been added. Cook until carrots are tender, 
adding enough water to keep from burning. Have one cup of water in pan when 
carrots are done, thicken with one tablespoon flour diluted with cold water. 
Cook five minutes, season more if needed; and the carrots are ready to serve. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

2 cups solid tomatoes; i cup soft bread crumbs; 3 tablespoons butter or bacon fat; 
I small onion. Seasonings. Fry onion thinly sliced in the bacon fat or butter 
until yellow. Add tomatoes. In a dish, put a layer of crumbs, a layer of tomatoes 
and seasonings of salt and pepper. Repeat, having a layer of crumbs on top. Bake 
until crumbs are brown. 

Potato Soup 

4 potatoes (medium size); i small onion, thinly sliced; i quart water; 2 table- 
spoons drippings; 2 tablespoons flour; i pint hot milk; i teaspoon salt; yi tea- 
spoon pepper; i teaspoon chopped parsley. Cook potatoes, washed, pared and 
sliced with onion, in water until potatoes are soft. Rub through a strainer, with- 
out draining from water. Place over fire, add fat and flour mixed together. Cook 
one minute. Add hot milk and seasonings. 

2. Dried Vegetables 

Peanut and rice loaf, or pea chowder. These dishes will take the 
place of meat in a meal. (For suggestions as to use see Meat 



Substitutes.) 



Peanut Loaf 



I cup peanuts, chopped; >^ cup rice, uncooked; 2 tablespoons butter; yi cup 
milk; i egg; seasoning to taste. Cook the rice, add the other ingredients; bake 
in greased pan about 30 minutes in a hot oven. 

Pea Chowder 

I cup peas, split; 2 cups corn, canned; i cup milk; i tablespoon oleomargarin. 
Season with salt and pepper. Soak peas several hours, cook until soft, add corn 
and heat a few minutes, then add milk and oleomargarin. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



012 822 248 



