








■m.^=^ 


V;N. ,0v., 


f c 


< ^5o^ X 


.-x 4\ 


;» 


- y^^^.^ . , 




■* 


^vSjJ, <>•■.*.>< 


^ 




^ T^ ^' 






















rb 








Bosto^ Public Library 

Do not write in this book or mark it with pen or 
pencil. Penalties for po doing are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the Qommonwealth of Massachusetts. 

T/iis hook zcas isftied to the borrozver on the date 
hsf stamped hcJo%ti. 



FORM NO. 609: 1.26.32: 360V 



U. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



Start the Day Right ^^^^ (^ zl. 



with a good breakfast 



FRUIT 



CEREAL 
These make a meal- 



MILK' 






^>U(>vvii<^M/® C^uvv. 



NOURISHING 
GOOD 



EASY TO COOK 
CHEAP 



A)^ f^-ei 



of foods the Government asks us to eat 



Use Fruit 

Fruit helps to keep your body in good health and to prevent 
constipation. 

Use fresh fruit when possible. 

Use prunes, dried apples, dried apricots. Soak them in 
water over night and cook them long enough to make them tender. 

Use dates or raisins. These are good added to the cereal 
ten minutes before taking it from the stove. Then you will not 
need sugar. 

Use ripe bananas with dark skins. Bananas with greenish- 
yellow skins are hard to digest unless cooked. / <*/ 



17108°-17 



7 



^ 



t^ '//^^f 



Right Foods Ma 



Use Cereals 

Corn-meal mush, oatmeal, rice, hominy (grits). 

These are much cheaper than the " ready- to-eat" breakfast 
foods. A "ready-to-eat" breakfast food may cost 15 cents for a 
big package, but if the package contains only one-quarter pound 
— 60 cents a pound for cereal ! This is eight or ten times as 
expensive as corn meal at 6 or 7 cents a pound. Look for the 
weights printed on the package and get the most for your money. 

Corn-meal mush and oatmeal are good only when well cooked. 
Many people use too little salt and don't cook them long enough. 

To cook corn-meal mush for five people use 1 \ cups corn 
meal, 2 teaspoons salt (level), 5 or 6 cups vv'ater. Bring salted 
water to a boil. Stir in the corn meal slowly. Don't let it 
lump. Cook it at least 30 minutes. It is better when cooked 
for three hours, or overnight. Use a double boiler on the back 
of the stove, or a fireless cooker. 

17108'— 17 



.••i/'..-iS«ari YyT-^Fi'iiily Off witF 



for Efficiency 



For oatmeal use 2| cups rolled oats, 24 teaspoons salt, 5 or 
6 cups water. Bring the water to a boil. Stir the rolled oats 
slowly into the boiling water and cook for one hour, or overnight. 

Eat the cereal with milk or sirup or butter or butter substitutes. 
You don't need bread besides. 

A large amount of corn meal or oatmeal may be cooked at 
one time. The unused part placed in a greased bowl may be 
kept for a few days in a cool place. Do you know how good 
sliced and fried oatmeal is } 

Instead of breakfast food you can take bread — preferably 
one of the war breads. Corn bread and milk is delicious. 

Use Milk 

Milk is an excellent food. A quart of whole milk gives as 
much nourishment as one pound of lean m.eat. 

Children especially need it to make them grow strong and 
keep well. It is good for grown people, too. Give each child 
at least a glass for breakfast. Drink it hot or cold, or use it on 
the cereal, or make it into cocoa. Even at a high price milk is 
a cheap food for children. 



a Well-Chosen Breakfast 



U. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



No Coffee and Tea for Children : They are not food. Let 
the grown people have them if they want them, but do not give 
the children even a taste. The cl 



children's drink is milk. 



This leaflet is the first of a series on foods. They will help 
you to plan and cook good meals at a low cost. They show 
many and varied uses for the foods the Government asks us 
to use. 

The next of the United States Food Leaflets are: 

No. 2. Do You Know Com Meal ? 

No. 3. A Whole Dinner in One Dish. 

No. 4. Choose Your Food Wisely. 

No. 5. Make a Little Meat Go a Long Way. 

No. 6. Do You Know Oatmeal ? 

No. 7. Food for Your Children. 

No. 8. Instead of Meat. 

Keep Them. Refer to Them. 

Show Them to Your Neighbors. 



Umfed S!atp.s Food Leaflet No. 1 




WASHINGTON : GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : lOlf 



U. S. DEFT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



Do You Know Corn Meal? 

ITS USE MEANS 
Service to Your Country 
Nourishing Food for You 



Try com bread and 


see 


how good 


it can 


be. 


There 


are many kinds. 


You will wonder why 


you 


didn't 


use it every day before 


the war. 






It 


is very nourishing, 


too. 


A cup of 


corn meal 


gives 


even more fuel to 


your 


body than 


a cup of 


- wheat 


flourc 











Here is a quick kind of corn bread. Our grandmothers 
used to bake it on a board before the open fire. You can bake 
it in your oven. 

Corn Dodger 



2 cups corn meal. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



2 teaspoons fat. 

1 f cups boiling water. 



Pour the boiling water over the other materials. Beat well. When 
cool, form into thin cakes and bake 30 minutes in a hot oven. Makes 1 4 
biscuits. These crisp little biscuits are good with butter or gravy. Eat 
them with your meat and vegetables. 

17109°- -17 




Corn Saved 



Corn as Bread 

Corn bread is especially good made with sour milk and 
soda ; but sweet milk and baking powder are satisfactory. Eggs 
improve the flavor and add to the food value, but may be 
omitted if too expensive. 

CORN BREAD 
(1) (2) 

2 cups corn meal. 2 cups com meal. 

2 cups sweet milk (whole or skim). 2 cups sour milk. 
4 teaspoons baking powde*. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons fat. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
1 egg (may be omitted). 

Mix dry ingredients. Add milk, well-beaten egg, and melted fat. 
Beat well. Bake in shallow pan for about 30 minutes. 



1 teaspoon soda. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

2 tablespoons fat. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

1 egg (may be omitted). 



An Old Southern Recipe 

Here is an old-fashioned soft spoon bread that Southerners 
like. With milk or sirup it makes a satisfying meal. 

SPOON BREAD 

2 cups water. 1 tablespoon fat. 

1 cup m-ilk (whole or skim). 2 eggs. 

1 cup com meal. 2 teaspoons salt. 

Mix water and com meal and bring to the boiling point and cook 5 
minutes. Beat eggs well and add with other materials to the mush. Beat 
well and bake in a well-greased pan for 25 minutes in a hot oven. Serve 
from the same dish with a spoon. Enough for six. 

17109"— 17 





Corn Meal and Milk 

Do you use corn-mea! mush for a breakfast food ? It is both 
cheap and good. Cooked in skim milk instead oi water it is 
extra fine and the food value of the dish is nearly doubled. 

Here is a delicious corn meal and milk dessert. 



INDIAN PUDDING 



4 cups milk (v/hole or skim). 
i cup com meal. 

J cup molasses. 



f teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon ginger. 



Cook milk and meal in a double boiler 20 minutes; add molasses, 
salt, and ginger. Pour into buttered pudding disb and bake two hours in 
a slow oven, or use your fireless cooker. Serve with milk. This makes a 
good and nourishing dessert. Serves six. 

Corn Meal and Meat 

Corn meal is good combined with meats. Such a dish is 
a meal in itself. Try this one. 

TAMALE PIE 

1 onion. 

2 cups tomatoes. 



2 cups com meal. 
6 cups water. 
1 tablespoon fat. 



1 pound hamburger steak. 



Make a mush by stirring the com meal and 1^ teaspoons salt into 
boiling water. Cook 45 minutes. Brown onion in fat, add hamburger and 
stir until red color disappears. Add salt, pepper, and tomato. A sweet 
pepper is an addition. Grease baking dish, put in layer of com-meal mush, 
add seasoned meat, and cover with mush. Bake one-half hour. Serves six. 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^SS^^M ^' ^' P"^^^ 
AGRICULTURE ^^^^^^^ ADMINISTRATION 



Corn Helps Us Feed the World 



Ours is the splendid burden of feeding the world. There is 
no magic way of making food win the war. It can be done in 
but one way; the way of voluntary and eager resolution and 
action of the whole people in every shop and every kitchen and 
at every table in the land. 

The more corn we use the m.ore food can be sent abroad. 
There are at least 50 ways to use com meal to make good 
dishes for dinner, supper, and breakfast. Your family is missing 
delicious, nourishing, economical food if you are not serving 
com-me^l dishes in your home. 

Here are some more suggestions: 

HOT BREADS DESSERTS HEARTY DISHES 

Boston brown bread. Com-meal molasses cake. Corn-meal croquettes. 
Hoecake. Apple corn bread. Com-meal fish balls. 

MufEns. Dumplings. Meat and corn-meal dump- 

Biscuits. Gingerbread. lings. 

Griddle cakes. Fruit gems. Italian polenta. 

Waffles. Tamales. 

The recipes are in Farmers* Bulletin 565, "Corn Meal as a 
Food and Ways of Using It," free from the Department of Agri- 
culture. 



Corn Meal — Our Ally 



United Slates Food Leaflet No. 2 

L 



^^sia^l^^^^te^ 



WASHINGTON : OOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : I9lt 



U. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



A Whole Diener in One Disli 



The youngsters will like it. 

Father will like it. 

You will like it. 
Your pockethook will surely like it. 

Your bodies cant help liking it. 

" Uncle Sam" is bound to like it. 



Everybody Will Like the One-dish Dinner. Why ? 



A dish hot and savory — good for work or play — that is why 
the father and the children will like it. 

Easy to cook and serve — that is one reason why you will 
like it. Only one dish to cook, few plates to wash, steps saved. 

Good, nourishing food — you can feel sure that you are feed- 
ing your family right if you give them this dinner. It contains 
all their bodies need to help them work and grow strong. 

This dinner helps you do your part for our country. You 
can save wheat and meat to ship abroad. Our soldiers and 
the Allies need them more than we do. 

Try the One-dish Dinner 

17107 °-17 



Try These Oi 

EACH ENOUGH FC 



FISH CHOWDER 

Rabbit, fowl, or any meat may be used instead 
of the fish, or tomatoes instead of milk. Carrots 
may be omitted. 




1 J pounds fish (fresh, salt, or 

canned). 
9 potatoes, peeled and cut 

in small pieces. 
1 onion, sliced. 



2 cups carrots cut in pieces, 
J pound salt pork. 

3 cups milk. 
Pepper. 

3 tablespoons flour. 



Cut pork in small pieces and fry with the chopped onion for five minutes. 
Put pork, onions, carrots, and potatoes in kettle and cover with boiling 
water. Cook until vegetables are tender. Mix three tablespoons of flour 
with one-half cup of the cold milk and stir in the liquid in the pot to thicken. 
Add the rest of the milk and the fish which has been removed from the bone 
and cut in small pieces. Cook until the fish is tender, about 10 minutes. 
Serve hot. You can omit salt pork and use a tablespoon of other fat. 



DRIED PEAS WITH RICE AND TOMATOES 

1 i cups rice. 1 tablespoon salt. 

2 cups dried peas. J teaspoon pepper. 

6 onions. 2 cups tomato (fresh or canned). 

Soak peas over night in two quarts of water. Cook until lender in 
water in which they soaked. Add rice, onions, tomato, and seasonings 
and cook 20 minutes. 

17107°— 17 



e-dish Dinners 

A FAMILY OF FIVE 

POTTED HOMINY AND BEEF 

Hominy is excellent to use as part of a one-dish 
dinner, if you have a fire in your stove so that you 
can cook it for a long time, or use a fireless cooker. 
Heat 1 K quarts of water to boiling; add 1 teaspoon of salt and 
2 cups of hominy which has been soaked overnight. Cook in 
a double boiler for four hours or in the fireless cooker overnight. 
This makes 5 cups. This recipe may be increased and enough 
cooked in different ways for several meals. Hominy is excellent 
combined with dried, canned, or fresh fish, or meat and vege- 
table left-overs may be used. Here is one combination. 




5 cups cooked hominy. 
4 potatoes 
2 cups carrots. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



% pound dried beef. 
2 cups milk. 
2 tablespoons fat. 
2 tablespoons flour. 



Melt the fat, stir In the flour, add the cold milk, and mix well. Cook 
until it thickens. Cut the potatoes and carrots in dice, mix ail the materials 
in a baking dish, and Lake for one hour. 

These dishes supply all five kinds of food. Each is enough 
for the whole dinner for a family of five. Eat them with bread 
and with fruit or jam for dessert. Then you will have all the 
five kinds of food your body needs. These five kinds are shown 
on the next page. 




U. S. DEPT. OF Wy .' . ;J U. S. FOOD 
AGRICULTURE %S>'^*?=^v<^7 ADMINISTRATION 



The Five Food Groups 

1 . Vegetables or fruits. 

2. Milk, or cheese, or eggs, or fish, or meat, or beans. 

3. Cereal: Com, rice, oats, rye, or wheat. 

4. Sirup or sugar. 

5. Fat: Such as drippings, oleomargarine, oil, butter. 

Choose something from each of these five groups every day. 

More One-dish Meals 

There are some more recipes for dishes of this kind in other 
United States Food Leaflets. 

*' Instead of Meat'* (Leaflet No. 8) tells what foods are good to 
use when you don't buy meat, and how to make some meatless 
one-dish meals. 

"Make a Little Meat Go a Long Way" (Leaflet No. 5) will 
help you to cut down your meat bills. The savory stews and 
meat pies show how you can give your family a good one-dish 
meal by using a little meat in various combinations. 

You can make up other recipes for yourself by combining foods 
from most of the five groups. Pass them on to your neighbor. 



United States Food Leaflet No. 3 




'^^^m^^m^ 



WASHINGTON : GOVERNMENT PRINTINQ OFFICE '. ISITI 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^^^MM "• ^- ^°°^ 
AGRICULTURE ^^^^^m^ ADMINISTRATION 



Clioose Your Food Wisely 



STUDY THESE FIVE FOOD GROUPS 

Every food you eat may be put into one of these groups. 
Each group serves a special purpose in nourishing your body. 
You should choose some food from each group daily. 

1. VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 

2. MILK, EGGS. FISH. MEAT, CHEESE. 

BEANS, PEAS, PEANUTS. 

3. CEREALS— CORN MEAL, OATMEAL, RICE. 

BREAD, ETC. 

4. SUGAR, SIRUPS, JELLY, HONEY. ETC. 

5. FATS— BUTTER, MARGARINE, COTTONSEED 

OIL, OLIVE OIL, DRIPPINGS, SUET. 

You can exchange one food for another in the same group. 
For example, oatmeal may be used instead of wheat, and eggs, 
or sometimes beans, instead of meat; but oatmeal can not be used 
instead of milk. Use both oatmeal and milk. 

YOU NEED SOME FOOD FROM EACH 
GROUP EVERY DAY— DONT SKIP ANY 

17473 °-17 




Hera are tlie Reasons Wj 

Fruits and vegetables furnish some of the material from 
which the body is made and keep its many parts v/orking smoothly. 
They help prevent constipation which gives you headaches and 
makes you stupid. TTie kinds you choose depend upon the 
season, but remember that the cheaper ones are often as valuable 
as the more expensive. 

Milk, eggs, fish, meat, peas, beans. — These help build up 
the growing body and renew used-up parts. That is their main 
business. Dried peas and beans make good dishes to use in place 
of meat part of the time, but don*t leave out the other foods 
entirely. Milk is the most important. Buy at least a pint a day 
for every member of your family. No other food can take its 
place for children. Save on meat if you must, but don't skimp 
on milk. 

Cereals. — Bread and breakfast foods. These foods act as fuel 
to let you do your work, much as the gasoline burning in an 
automobile engine makes the car go. This you can think of as 
their chief business. And they are usually your cheapest fuel. 
Besides, they give your body some building material. 

17473'— 17 




J You Need the Five Groups 

Don't think that wheat bread is the only kind of cereal food. 
The Government asks us to save wheat to send abroad to our 
soldiers and the allies. Let the North try the Southern corn 
bread and the South the oatmeal of the North. Half the 
fun of cooking is in trying new things. An oatmeal pudding 
is delicious. See Leaflet No. 6 for the recipe. 

Sugar and Sirups are fuel, too, and they give flavor to other 
foods. They are valuable food, but many people eat more of 
them than they need. Sweet fruits, of course, contain much 
sugar and are better for the children than candy. 

Fat is fuel — ^Some is needed especially by hard-working people. 
Remember that expensive fats are no better fuel than cheap 
ones. Use drippings. Don't let your butcher keep the trimmings 
from your meat. They belong to you. Children need some 
butter fat. Give it to them in plenty of whole milk or in butter. 



Remember the Five Groups 





U. S. DEPT. OF ,^^ ;,- U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ■'vS^r^^r;^^^ ADMINISTRATION 



Do You Want P^iore Help 

In planning your meals so as to use these five kinds of food? 
There are other leaflets like this to help you and answer your 
questions. They have practical suggestions for meals and 
simple and economical recipes. Here are the names of some of 
the first leaflets in the series: 

United States Food Leaflets 

1. START THE DAY RIGHT. 

A good breakfast — what you need and how to cook it. 

2. DO YOU KNOW CORN MEAL? 

Many ways of cooking it. all of them good. 

3. A UTIOLE DINNER IN ONE DISH. 

Attractive dishes that make a nutritious meal and an Inexpensive and lime- 
saving one. 

5. MAKE A LITTLE MEAT GO A LONG WAY. 

Savory stev/s and meat pies require only a little meat for an excellent dish. 

6. DO YOU KNOW OATMEAL? 

It is very good cooked in many different ways. 

7. FOOD FOR YOUR CHILDREN. 

It is a simple matter to give them what they need but a very important one. 

8. INSTEAD OF MEAT. 

Many foods can take the place of meat. This leaflet tells how to make tho 
exchange m a way the family will like. 

Send to the U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D, C„ for these leaflets. 
Get also the Farmers' Bulletins of the series called "How to Select Foods," Nos. 808, 
817.824. 



Urafed Stales Food Leailel No. 4 



i^^^^^'^mms^^s^ 



WASHrNQTON : COVEHNMENT PRINTING OFFICE ! IflIT 











j^^^^^c 


V 






u 


S. DEPT. 


OF 






Lli'^- 


1 


u. 


S. FOOD 


AGRICULTURE 








W 


ADMINISTRATION 



Make a Little Meat 

Go a Long Way 

Use Savory Stews and Meat Pies 

Do you know how good they are ? They may be so varied 
that you can have a different one every day in the v/eek, and 
all of diem dehcious. h needs only a small piece of meat to 
give flavor to a hearty dish. 

Don't think that you must eat a lot of meat to be strong. 
Meat is good to help build up the body, but so are many other 
foods. 

In these dishes part of your building material comes from the 
more expensive meat and part from the cheaper peas, beans, 
hominy, and barley. The little meat with the vegetables and 
cereals will give your body what it needs. 

SAVORY STEWS 

Try them. They can be a whole meal and a nutritious one, 
TTiese recipes serve five people. 

Here is an English stev/ that is especially good: 

HOT POT OF MUTTON AND BARLEY 
1 pound mutton. 4 potatoes. 

§ cup pearled barley. 3 onions. 

1 tablespoon salt. Celery tops or other seasoning herbs. 

Cut the mutton in small pieces, and brown with the onion in fat cut from 
meat. This will help make the meat lender and improves the flavor. Pour 

17472'— 17 




SNt^S^^rS- 




Sa¥Orj Stews 



this into a covered saucepan. Add 2 quarts water and the barley. Simmer 
for 1 J hours. Then add the potatoes cut in quarters, seasoning herbs, and 
seasoning, and cook one-half hour longer. 

BEEF STEW 

1 pound beef. J peck peas or 1 can. 

4 potatoes cut in quarters. 1 cup carrots cut up small. 

I teaspoon salt. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown in the fat from the meat. Simmer 
in 2 quarts of water for 1 hour. Add the peas and carrots and cook for 
one-half hour, then add the potatoes. If canned peas are used, add them 1 
minutes before servdng. Serve when potatoes are done. 

DIFFERENT STEWS 
Here is the way you can change the stews to make them 
different and to suit the season: 

1 . The meat. — This may be any kind and more or less than 
a pound may be used. Use the cheap cuts, the flank, rump, 
neck, or brisket. The long, slow cooking makes them tender. 
Game and poultry are good. 

2. Potatoes and barley may be used or barley alone, or rice,^ 
hominy, or macaroni. 

3. Vegetables. — Carrots, turnips, onions, peas, beans, cab- 
bage, tomatoes are good, canned or fresh. Use one or more of 
these, as you wish. 



17472°— 17 



The Best Way to Make 




nd Meat Pies 

4. Parsley, celery tops, onion tops, seasoning herbs, or chopped 
8V/eet peppers add to the flavor. 

5. Many left-overs may be used — not only meat and veg- 
etables, but rice or hominy. 

HOW TO COOK THE STEWS 

All kinds of stews are cooked in just about the same way. 
Here are directions which will serve for making almost any kind. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown with the onion in the 
fat cut from the meat. Add the salt and pepper, seasoning veg- 
etables (onion, celery tops, etc.), 2 quarts of water, and the 
rice, or other cereal, if it is to be used. Cook for an hour, then 
add the vegetables except potatoes. Cook the stew for half an 
hour, add the potatoes cut in quarters, cook for another half an 
hour, and serve. 

The flreless cooker may well be used, the meat and the veg- 
etables being put in at the same time. 

Left-overs or canned vegetables need only to be heated through. 
Add them 1 5 minutes before serving. 

Dried peas or beans should be soaked over night and cooked 
for 3 hours before adding to the stew; or, better, cook them 
over night in a fireless cooker. 

Little Meat Go a Long Way 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^ -f^ U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ^.. ,. .-^^ ADMINISTRATION 



MEAT PIES 

Another good way to use a little meat. Have you ever used 
rice, corn-meal mush, or hominy tor a crust? This is less work 
than a pastry crust and saves v/heat. 

4 cups cooked com meal, J teaspoon pepper, 

rice, or hominy. 1 tablespoon fat. 

1 onion. 1 pound raw meat or left-over 

2 cups tomato, meat cut up small. 

5 teaspoon salt. 

Melt the fat, add the sliced onion, and, if raw meat is used, add it and 
stir until ine red color disappears. Add the tomato and seasoning. If 
cooked meat is used, add it with the tomato and seasoning, after the onion is 
browned, and heat throagh. Grease a baking dish, put in a layer of the 
cereal, add the meat and gravy, and cover with the cereal dotted with fat. 
Bake for half an hour. 

SHEPI-IERD^S PIE 
TTiis is the name of a meat pie with a mashed-potato crust 
browned in the oven. 

Try the Recipes in this Leaflet and Cut Down 
Your Meat Bills 



United Slates Food Leaflel No. S 




WASHINGTON : QOVERNMENT PRINTINO OFFICE '. lilt 




U. S. DEFT. OF %1^^P^mSi V. S. FOOD 
AGRICULTURE ^^l^^B^^T ADMINISTRATION 



Do You Know Oatmeal? 

Do you know that oatmeal makes delicious puddings and 
other good things? 

Of course, you know it is a good breakfast food, but it is even 
better fixed up for dinner or supper. It makes 

Excellent Puddings 

Wholesome Bread and Cookies 

An Appetizing Soup for a Cold Day 

A Baked Dish for Dinner in Place of Meat 

To cook oatmeal, stir slowly 2J cups of rolled oats into five 
cups of boiling water which has in it 2i teaspoons of salt. 
Cook for one hour or over night in a double boiler or fircless 
cooker. This will serve five people. If you want it for two 
meals, cook twice the amount to save time and fuel, 

17471° -17 







OATMEAL PUDDING 
Try one when you have a light dinner or supper 



OATMEAL BETTY 

2 cups cooked oatmeal. 

4 apples cut up small. 

^ cup raisins. 

J cup sugar. 

J teaspoon cinnamon. 



BROWN PUDDING 



2 cups cooked oatmeal. 
§ cup molasses. 
J cup raisins. 





Mix and bake for one-half hour. Serve hot or cold. Any dried or fresh 
fruits, dates, or ground peanuts may be used instead of apples. Either 
will serve five people. 

SCOTCH SOUP 
With head and dessert it is enough for lunch or supper 



2 J quarts water. 

1 i cups rolled oats. 

5 potatoes cut in small pieces. 



2 onions, sliced. 
2 tablespoons flour. 
2 tablespoons fat. 



Boil the water and add the oatmeal, potato, and onion, ^ tablespoon of 
salt and J teaspoon pepper. Cook for one-half hour. Brown the flour with 
the fat and add to the soup. Cook until thick. One cup of tomato adds to 
the flavor. Serves five people. 



17471 °-17 






OATMEAL BREAD 
is delicious with all meals — try it 

1 cup milk or water. 2J cups wheat flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. J yeast cake. 

1 cup rolled oats. 



Scald the liquid, add salt and pour over the oats, cool half an houri 
add the yeast mixed with | cup lukewarm water, and the flour. Knead 
and let rise until double the size. Knead again and let rise in the pan until 
the size is doubled. Bake in a moderate oven for 50 minutes. Makes one 
loaf weighing 1 1 pounds. 



SPICED OATMEAL CAKES 
The whole family will lik<^ these, and they are easily made 

\ ^ cups flour. i teaspoon soda. 

J cup cooked oatmeal. i teaspoon baking powder. 

} cup sugar. J teaspoon cinnamon. 

4 cup raisins. 3 tablespoons fat. 

J cup molasses. 

Heat the molasses and fat to boiling. Mix with all the other materials 
Bake in muffin pans for 30 minutes. This makes 1 2 cakes. 





U. S. DEPT. OF \M^S^^i ^' ^' ^O*^^ 
AGRICULTURE >^S8^^ ADMINISTRATION 



Especially crisp and good as Well as cheap arc 
SCOTCH OAT CRACKERS 

2 cups rolled oats. 1 1 tablespoons fat. 

J cup inilk. \ teaspoon soda. • 

1 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon salt. 

Grind or crush the oats and mix with the other materials. Roll out in 
a thin sheet and cut in squares. Bake lor 20 minutes in a moderate 
oven. Makes 3 dozen crackers. 

Instead of meat, cook this appetizing dish for your family 

BAXED OATMEAL AND NUTS 

2 cups cooked oatmeal. I teaspoon vinegar. 
1 cup crushed peanuts. -| teaspoon pepper. 
I cup milk. 2 J teaspoons salt. 

Mix together and bake in a greased pan 15 minutes. This is enough 
for five people. 

Oatimeal is a good, inexpensivej nutritious food 



United Stales Food LeaHel No. 6 







WASHSNQTON : GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE '. 1617 



U. S. DEPT. OF tt 7 U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ^& / ADMINISTRATION 



Food For Your Childree 



Give Your Children Their Chance 

They ought to have it and you want to give it to thern. 

They Must Have the Right Food 



Think how fast the child grows. The nev/ muscles and 
bones and all the other parts of the body are made from the 
food which the child eats. 

Give him clean, wholesome, simply cooked food — plenty 
of milk, cereals, vegetables, fruit, an egg or some meat occa- 
sionally. 

Wrong food — too little, too much, or wrong kinds — hurts 
the child's chance of being the strong, healthy boy or girl 
you want. 

Right food — may mean 

Strong bodies Good brains 

Rosy cheeks Bright eyes 



17474°- -17 




Help Your Child To 



Here's Good Food for a Real Youngster's Day 

A good breakfast to start him oil — milk, com-meai mush, apple 
sauce. It makes him fit for school and fit for play. 

Milk and plenty of it, makes him grow — a quart each day if you can. 
Put it on his cereal and in his cup. Make it into soups, puddings, or 
custards for him. Try the recipes on the last page and watch him smile. 

Whole milk is best, of course, but skim milk is good if there is a little 
butter in his meals. Cottage cheese is good, too. 

No coffee or tea — not even a taste. Leave them for the grov/nups. 
Milk, cocoa, not too strong, and fruit juices are the drinks for children, and 
plenty of water always. 

Fruit they enjoy, and they need it, too — baked apples, apple sauce, 
thoroughly ripe bananas, prunes, oranges, etc. Give them vegetables, 
fresh or canned. Plenty of fruits and vegetables tend to prevent constipation. 
Use proper food and do not depend upon laxatives. The youngster can't 
be well unless the bowels move regularly. Don't let him hurry off in the 
morning v/ithout attending to this duty. 

Other foods a child needs: Whole wheat bread, not too fresh, com 
bread, well-cooked oatmeal, com meal, rice. They help make strong boys 
and giris. Some fats, butter or margarine or meat fats on his bread or 
in gravies. An egg, perhaps, particularly if he doesn't get his full quart of 
milk, or he can have a little meat or fish, but he does not need m.uch. 

Sweets are good for them — the right ones at the right time. Dates, 
raisins, stewed fruits, simple puddings, sugar cookies, are better than candy. 
Give them at meal times. 

Between meals let them have bread and butter, a cracker, 
fruii. They won't spoil the appetite, and candy will. 

17474»_17 




irow Big and Strong 




Plan Meals Like These 

Here are two sets of the right kind for your youngster. Grown 
people will like them, too. If sometimes these seem too much 
work, bread and milk alone will make a good meal. 




BREAKFAST 


No. 1. 


No. 2. 


Apple sauce. 


Stewed prunes. 


Oatmeal with milk. 


Cocoa (v/eak). 


Milk to drink. 


Toast and butter. 


DINNER 




No. 1. 


No. 2. 


Stew, with carrots, potatoes, 


Fish, with white sauce. 


and a little meat. 


Spinach or any greens. 


Whole wheat bread. 


Com bread. 


Creamy rice pudding. 


Milk to drink. 


Milk to drink. 




SUPPER 




No. 1. 


No. 2. 


Cream oi bean soup. 


Baked potato. 


Crackers and jam. 


Apple Betty. 


Milk. 


Milk. 



Your child must have 

the best of foods 




U. S. DEFT. OF V^ "sJ U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE V -/ ADMINISTRATION 



Good Dishes for Children 

These dishes are good for children and grown-ups too. The 
recipes provide enough for a family of five. 

MILK- VEGETABLE SOUPS 

1 quart milk (skim milk may be used). 2 cups thoroughly cooked vegetable 
2^2 tablespoons flour. finely chopped, mashed or put 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine or through a sieve. Spinach, peas, 
other fat. beans, potatoes, celery, or aspara- 

1 teaspoon salt. gus make good soups. 

Stir flour into melted fat and mix with the cold milk. Add the cooked 
vegetable and stir over the fire until thickened. If soup is too thick, add a 
little water or mjlk. 

RICE PUDDING 

1 quart milk. >2 teaspoon salt, 

^^ cup rice. ys teaspoon ground nutmeg or 
}^ cup sugar. cinnamon. 

}4 cup raisins or chopped dates. 

Wash the rice, mix all together, and bake three hours in a very slow oven, 
stirring now and then at first. This may be made on top of the stove in a 
double boiler, or in a fireless cooker. Any coarse cereal may be used in 
place of rice. 

For more suggestions, send to the U. S. Department of Agriculture for Farmers' Bul- 
letin 717, "Food for Young Children." It tells mora about feeding children and the 
reasons why right food is so important. It shows every mother how to give her children 
their chance in life. 



United States Food Leaflet No. 7 

{ 






WASHINQTON : GOVERNMENT PI7INTINQ OFFICE '. tSIT 



'hfl 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^^SmsW'W ^' ^' F^^OD 

AGRICULTURE ^^^J^$f ADMINISIRAIION 



INSTEAD OF MEAT 



CHEESE. 


BEANS. 


MILK. 


PEAS. 


EGGS. 


CEREALS 



NUTS. 

' I 'HESE make appetizing dishes to take the place of meal, 
Why not use them oftener? There are plenty of good 
ways of cooking them. 

They give you a body-building material, the protein, and 
they give a lot of it. 

The child to grow must have food that furnishes this kind 
of material. You need it, too. Even if you are grown up, 
you must have it to renew parts of your body used up by work 
and exercise. 

Don't think you have to eat meat to get this protein. These 
other foods have it, too. Take cottage cheese, for example 
It is richer in this material than meat. You can eat a third of 
a cup of it with pleasure, and this third of a cup will give you 
as much of the protein as a quarter of a pound of sirloin 
steak — a good, generous serving. Or if you like baked beans, 
eat a cupful to give you the same amount of protein. 

Use Less Meat— Our Government Needs It 



.;m>. 







United Stat^ Food Leaflet No. 8. 



PEAS, BEANS, PEANUTS, CEREALS 

These are cheaper than meats and good. They should be 
used, but eat some milk or cheese besides. 

KIDNEY BEAN STEW. 

1 Yl cups dried kidney or other 2 tablespoons flour. 

beans. I onion. 

2 cups canned tomatoes. 1 tablespoon salt, 
Yl cup rice. 

Wash the beans, put in covered kettle, and soak over night in two 
quarts of cold water. Cook the beans slowly in the water in which they 
soaked. If necessary, add more water to cover and continue the cooking 
until they are nearly tender, usually about two hours. Wash the rice, 
cut up the onion and add with the tomatoes to the beans. Cook until 
rice is tender — about 30 minutes. Mix the flour with a little cold water 
and stir in carefully to thicken. A small piece of salt pork cut up in 
cubes and added to the beans at the beginning of the cooking gives a 
pleasant flavor to the dish. 

This stew will make a whole meal in itself, with bread and 
butter and fruit for dessert, to serve five or six people. 

PEA SOUFFLE. 

4 tablespoons flour. 3 eggs. 

4 tablespoons fat. 1 teaspoon salt. 

I cup skim milk. 14 teaspoon pepper. 

I cup mashed cooked peas Few drops of onion juice. 

(any kind). 

Make a v/hite sauce from flour, fat and milk, as in preceding recipe. 
Mash the cooked peas to a pulp. Beat white and yolks of eggs sepa- 
rately. Mix vegetable pulp, seasonings, sauce and well-beaten yolks. 
Fold in stiffly-bcdien whites, put in greased baking dish and bake in 
slow oven until firm. Lima beans, split peas, cowpeas, or fresh oi 
canned green peas may be used. 



CHEESE, MILK, EGGS. MEAT 

These give body-building material in a little better form thao 
the plant foods do. 

CREAMED PEANUTS AND RICE. 

1 cup rice (uncooked). WHITE SauCE. 

2 cups chopped peanuts. 3 tablespoons flour. 
Yl teaspoon paprika. 3 tablespoons fat. 

2 teaspoons salt. 3 cups milk (whole or skim). 

Boil rice. Make white sauce by mixing flour in melted fat and mixing 
with milk. Stir over fire until it thickens. Mix rice, peanuts and season- 
ing with sauce, place in greased baking dish and bake for 20 minutes. 

CALCUTTA RICE. 

2 cups rice. Yi pound cheese. 

2 cups tomatoes. 1 tablespoon salt. 

Peppers and celery or onions may be added, if desired. 

Boil rice. Mix it with tomatoes, grated cheese and seasonings, and 
pour into baking dish. Bake half an hour. If peppers or celery are 
used, cut up and boil with the rice. 

All of these four dishes except the pea souffle have as much 
building material, protein, as a pound and a quarter of solid 
meat. The pea souffle furnishes only about half as much 
protein, but is very good instead of meat at a lighter meal. 

CHEESE IS A FINE MEAT-SAVER. There is a 
great deal of food in a little piece of it. Don't eat it at the end 
of a meal when you have already had enough. You would not 
eat a piece of meat then. An inch cube of American cheese 
contains a third more protein than the same sized piece of lean 
meat. Cheese is excellent food if eaten at the right time. 

Get the Farmers* Bulletin on Cheese, No. 487, to learn hov; 
to use it in many ways. 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^K^^^ ^- S- ^^^^ 

AGRICULTURE ^^^^^W ADMINISTRATION 



Use These Good Meat-Savers 

COTTAGE CHEESE is a delicious and easy dish. You 
can buy it from almost any milkman or you can make it your- 
self. Add salt and pepper before eating, and if you prefer 
it more moist, stir in a little milk. It is good, too, served with 
apple butter, or a bit of jelly. While this is more of a dessert, 
it can still lessen the amount of meat you eat. 

To make cottage cheese warm sour milk, whole or skimmed, 
on the back of the stove or put a bowl of it in a pan of hot, 
not boiling, water for about 20 minutes. Stir occasionally. 
When the curd and whey have separated, pour off the whey 
through a sieve. Work the curd with a spoon and let it drain. 
When fairly dry work again until smooth. The whey is good 
to use in making bread. 

NUTS are concentrated foods, too. Twenty single peguiuts 
are about the Scime as the inch cube of cheese. Remember that 
nuts are good food. Chew them thoroughly or grind them up 
for a cooked dish and eat them as an important part of your 
meal. 

Save Meat and Money. 




XM OiOy^O ( 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^^mS^M ^- S- f<^^^ 

AGRICULTURE ^^^^^mW ADMINISTRATION 



MILK 

The Best Food We Have 
GIVE YOUR CHILDREN MILK 

A QUART a day for every child, if possible, a pint with- 
•^*' out fail. Plenty of milk will help give all your children, 
big and little, the chance for health they ought to have. Buy 
more milk and less meat and your family will be better fed. 

MILK HELPS YOUR CHILDREN TO GROW. 
Besides well-known food substances it has something special 
which they must have to grow. Your children can get a little 
of this from other foods, but not enough. Give your boys and 
girls milk for their chance to grow. 

MILK HELPS YOUR CHILDREN TO KEEP 
WELL. Look at children who do not get milk, but get tea 
and coffee instead. Aren't most of them pale and sickly? 
There are always very many sick children in cities and in 
countries where milk is scarce. When milk prices go up and 
mothers begin to economize on milk more children become sick. 
Do not let your children run this risk. Give them fresh, clean 
milk and help them to grow up strong and well and win in 
their fight against disease. Save on other things if you must, 
but not on milk, your child's best food. 






United States Food Leaflet No. 1 I 




Milk Gives Your Children Lime and other salts which 
they need. There must be plenty of lime in their food, for a 
great deal of it is needed for their bones and teeth and a little 
for their blood and all other parts of their bodies. Right food, 
not drugs, is what children need. Big boys and girls and grown 
people, as well as children, need lime, because the bones are 
constantly wearing away little by little and must be replaced. 

Milk is the chief food for lime. It is much richer in it th2ai 
other common foods. These lines stand for lime, the top one 
for the lime in a cup of milk, the others for the lime in a serving 
of some other foods. Notice how much more there is in milk 
than in the others. 

AMOUNT OF LIME IN 
I cup of milk 

Yl cup carrots 




Milk is the cheapest food for lime. Buy milk. You and 
your children need its lime. 

Milk Gives Your Children The Body-building Pro- 
tein, one of the materials from which their bodies are made. 
Milk is like eggs and meat in this. This body-building sub- 
stance, the protein, of milk is not new to you, for curd is milk 
protein. Cottage cheese is curd separated out from milk. 
When we drink milk or eat cheese we give our bodies proteins 
which are changed and become part of our muscles, blood, and 
other parts of the body. The milk protein is good for every- 
body and especially good for children. They need a great 
deal of it because their bodies grow so fast. 



Milk Gives Your Children Fuel to bum m their bodies. 
They need the fuel to keep them warm e id to help them run 
and play and work, much as an automobile needs gasoline or 
a steam engine needs coal. They are so active that they need 
more fuel for their size than grown people do. The fat and 
the milk sugar and the protein in the milk all burn up as fuel. 

Milk is much cheaper fuel than meat. A quart gives the 
same amount of fuel as a whole pound of lean meat or as eight 
eggs. Think of the cost! Isn't the milk far the cheapest? 
Still less expensive fuel is a bowl of bread and milk or corn 
meal mush and milk. 

Skim Milk Is Good Food. It has the lime and protein 
and sugar of the whole milk. Use it, but use whole milk, too. 
Skim milk lacks fat and has not so much of the growth sub- 
stances as has whole milk. 

Milk Should Not Be The Only Food For Children, 

of course. They need vegetables, fruits, and cereals. But 
even the bigger boys and girls should have milk. Milk is good 
for grown people, too. They still need the lime and protein 
and its other substances. Don't think of it only as a refreshing 
drink, but as a good nourishing food. 

Be Sure Your Milk Is Clean And Fresh. If you live 
in the city, buy it pasteurized from a clean dairy. In the coun- 
try see that your cows and milkers are clean and healthy. 
Keep your milk clean, cold, and covered. 

WAYS OF USING MORE MILK. 

Cereals Cooked In Milk. Corn meal, oatmeal, and rice 
are delicious cooked in skim milk. Use the same amount of 
milk as you would water for oatmeal and corn meal. For rice, 
you can well use a good deal more milk— four or even more 
cups of milk to one of rice. Cook for an hour in a double 
boiler. This makes a delicious creamy cereal. For milk cereal 
puddings add sugar or sirup and raisins. 



V. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 



2 cups milk. 
]/^ cup sugar or 
J/2 cup corn sirup. 



4 tablespoons cornstarch (level). 

Pinch of salt. 

Vanilla. 



Mix the cornstarch with cold milk, scald the remaining milk, and add 
the sugar or sirup, salt, and cornstarch. Stir until thick. Cover and 
cook for 20 minutes. Add vanilla. Serve cold, plain or with fruit. 
Add a square of chocolate to the milk for chocolate cornstarch. 

CREAMED DISHES. 

Milk toast, cream soups, creamed vegetables, creamed fish, 
and scalloped dishes are all good ways of putting more milk 
into the daily food of the family. The milk for all of these is 
thickened into a sauce, thick or thin. 

To make the sauces, melt the fat, stir in the flour, add the milk grad- 
ually, and cook until thickened, stirring constantly unless you use a double 
boiler. All measurements are level in these and all other recipes. 



Thin White Sauce. 



Medium White Sauce. Thick White Sauce. 



Milk 


1 cup. 


1 cup. 


1 cup. 


Flour 


1 tablespoon. 


2 tablespoons. 


3 tablespoons 


Fat 


1 tablespoon. 


2 tablespoons. 


3 tablespoons 


Salt 


'/2 teaspoon. 


J/2 teaspoon. 


'/2 teaspoon. 


Pepper 


Ys teaspoon. 


|/8 teaspoon. 


J/g teaspoon. 



For milk toast and with vegetables use the thin sauce. For scalloped 
or creamed dishes, use the. medium sauce. The chief use for the thick 
sauce is as a binding material in croquettes and loaves. 

SPREAD THE KNOWLEDGE AMONG THE MOTHERS 
THAT MILK IS OUR BEST FOOD. 



r 



U. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




(In^H*^^^' 



U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



SAVE FUEL 

WHEN YOU COOK. 

WHATEVER fuel you use, make it go as far as possible. Money 
saved on fuel can well be spent on better foods to cook, and if you 
cut down your use of fuel, you can help make the supply go around. 

To have a fire you must have, besides fuel, air to make it burn. In 
gas and oil stoves the air supply is regulated by the makers. In coal or 
wood ranges or cook stoves you must regulate it by means of dampers. 

WAYS TO SAVE COAL OR WOOD. 



2 OA/^f^E/? OU'f/? /^//?£ 



/7/?£- ^OK-' 




CH£C/<- /Di/P^FT 4 






Learn to Use Every Damper in Your Kitchen Range. 

The important dampers are : 

1 . Damper in the ash pit which lets in the air which passes through 
the fuel box, making the fire burn. 

2. Damper over the fire controlling air to flow in above the fire. 

3. Oven damper which switches the current of hot air around the 
oven instead of letting it go by the shorter path up the stovepipe. 

4. Check draft damper in the stovepipe just above the range. This 
is not always found and is less important than the rest. 

5. Stove pipe damper which checks heat from escaping up the 
chimney. 

(0^ 




United States Food 'Leaflet No. 12. 



Make your Fire the Right Way. To make a fire in a range, 
whether coal or wood, close all dampers of the stove and shake the fire- 
box to free it from ashes, dust, and clinkers. Take off the lids over the 
fire-box, place crumpled paper in the fire-box, arrange kindlings over 
and around it so that air can pass freely between them, and put on a 
small shovelful of coal. Light the paper, open dcimpers Nos. 1 , 3, and 5, 
and put on lids. When the coal glows red, a little more coal should be 
added, and when the fire is burning well, the fire-box may be filled. If 
wood is used as fuel, put on a few sticks at a time. 

Learn to Manage the Fire. By the proper use of the damper? 
the fire can be controlled and the heat regulated. 

No. 1 . The damper in the ash pit. This should always be kept open 
when the fire is burning as it is the best source of air for the fire. Close it 
only when you dump the grate and when the fire is banked to keep it 
for some time. However, if there is no stovepipe damper, the damper 
in the ash pit must be closed to check the draft when the fire burns 
too hard. 

No. 2. The damper over the fire. Close this when you are starting 
a fire. If the fire burns too rapidly so that the flames are long enough to 
reach the back row of lids, open this damper a little bit. This will 
shorten the length of the flame and give you more heat. If you open 
this too much it may cool the oven. 

No. 3. The oven damper. When this damper is closed the flames 
and smoke and hot air are forced to pass around the oven to heat it and 
then afterwards they escape up the chimney. When the damper is open 
they pass directly up the chimney. As soon as the fire is burning well, 
close this damper so that the oven will be heated. This will keep the 
oven so that you can make it very hot quickly by adding extra fuel and 
will warm your room if the oven door is left open. With this damper 
closed you v^ll use much less fuel than by allowing the heated air to 
take the shorter path up the chimney. 



No. 4. The check draft damper in the stovepipe. It should be kept 
closed except when the fire is banked. 

No. 5. The stovepipe damper. This is a most important damper- 
It can control tne amount of fuel burned, as the more slowly the hot air 
passes up the pipe, the more slowly the fire burns. A great deal of the 
fuel sometimes merely furnishes heat that escapes up the chimney. Check 
this escape of heat and burn less fuel by using the pipe damper. If your 
fire is burning too hard, instead of closing the damper in the ash pit, close 
the one in the pipe, for it checks the fire much more effectively than the 
other damper. 

If your oven does not heat even with the oven damper closed, it is 
probably because the air carried around the oven has been pulled through 
the fire so fast that it has not been thoroughly heated itself and can not 
heat the oven. Close the pipe damper. 

Keep your Range Cleaned Out. If the fire-box is clogged 
with ashes, air can not pass through the fuel to make it burn. If soot 
hangs on the stove lids, less heat can come through it. A layer of ashes 
over the top and under the oven keeps it from heating quickly. 

Banking the Fire. It is an economy to keep a hard-coal fire over 
from day to day, especially if the range is used as a source of heat for 
the room. As a rule a wood fire is hard to keep over but the hard-coal 
fire can be easily kept. In the evening rake out the ashes, put coal on, 
and open the dampers until the fresh fuel is burning well. Put on coal 
until the fire-box is almost full and close all the dampers except the check 
draft damper in the stovepipe. 

Think of the Fire When You Select the Food to Cook. 

If you keep a slow fire in your range all day to supply heat for the room, 
select foods that require long slow cooking. Baked beans or peas, roasts, 
and puddings can be baked in the oven and cereals cooked in a double 
boiler on the back of the stove. Avoid foods that require a very hot fire 
for a long time. 

Gas, Kerosene or Coal Oil, and Gasoline are economical for 
cooking if carefully used. Never mix two liquid fuels and never use 
gasoline in an oil stove, for each requires a special burner. Use all with 
care. 




U. S. DEFT. OF ^^SEi®^ ^- ^- fOO"^ 

AGRICULTURE ^^S^^^^ ADMINISTRATION 



WAYS TO SAVE GAS AND OIL. 

Reduce the Number of Burners Used. You can cook more 
than one kind of food over the same burner. If you have a colander or 
a wire basket that fits over an ordinary kettle, you can steam such vege- 
tables as carrots or squash in the colander at the same time that you boil 
potatoes in the kettle. The under part of the double boiler can be used 
to boil eggs or small vegetables, while cereal cooks in the upper part. 
Compartment vessels that have two or three separate divisions fitting 
together over one burner may be purchased. 

Regulate the Size of the Flame. Turn the flame down after 
the boiling point is reached, for water that is boiling fast is no hotter than 
water that is boiling slowly. When the flame spreads up around the 
vessel you are wasting fuel. 

Don't be Afraid of Relighting the Gas. Turn it out when 
you remove the vessel from the burner. Matches are cheaper than gas. 

Have a Regular Bake Day. If you bake bread, bake as much 
at one time as will be eaten before it dries out. 

Don't Light the Oven to Bake a Single Dish. If you have a 
roast for dinner that requires the use of the oven, plan a baked dinner. 
Beef roast with brown potatoes, scalloped tomatoes, and Apple Betty 
all could be baked ^t one time. Or, if you light the oven to bake quick 
breads or cake, bake fruit or a dessert for another meal. Small ovens 
that fit over one burner save fuel. 

Select foods that can be quickly cooked. Cook in larger quantities 
such foods as cereals and soups that require long cooking. They will 
keep in the refrigerator and you will save much fuel. Leaflet No. I 3 
tells how to make a fireless cooker at home and how to use it to cut down 
your use of fuel. No matter what kind of fuel you use, the fireless 
cooker can help you save it. 







U. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




dH^ 



U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



LET THE 

FIRELESS COOKER 

HELP YOU COOK 

YOU can't afford to be without one. The fireless cooker can save 
fuel in winter and make your kitchen comfortable in summer. It 
will give you better food. It will save you time and labor for you can 
have your dinner cooking while you attend to other duties or go away 
from home. Make one for yourself. It may cost less than a dollar and 
will pay for itself in time and fuel saved. Or buy a ready-made one. 

How a Fireless Cooker Cool^s. First the food is made as hot as it 
can be on the stove, then it is put immediately into the cooker. Once 
there, it stays hot and keeps on cooking. The walls of the fireless cooker 
keep the heat in just as the walls of a good refrigerator keep the heat out. 

MATERIALS NEEDED FOR A FIRELESS 
COOKER. 

1 . The outside container — any good-sized box or bucket with a tight 
cover — a grocery box, a butter firkin, a wooden candy bucket, a 1 00- 
pound lard can, or a new garbage can. 

2. Packing material — soft hay, excelsior, ground cork, sawdust, 
tightly crumpled newspapers, or any other good non-conducting material 
that can be packed in closely. This packing material forms a nest for 
the cooking vessel. 

3. The nest lining — a metal or enamel bucket and sheet asbestos 
to cover the bucket. The bucket must have straight sides and a lid and 
must be of such a size as to allow at least three inches of packing material 
between it and the outside container, top, bottom, and sides. 

4. The cooking vessel — a vessel with a tight lid to fit closely into the 
nest lining and yet slip in and out easily, or two or three of the small ones 
especially made for the fireless. The best kind is of enamel, granite or 
aluminum. 



g^^^^y^a^ 




United States 



Leaflet No. 



3. Cardboard — to make the collar. 

6. The cushion — denim or muslin stuffed with the packing material. 
This cushion is to be pressed down across the top under the outside lid. 

7. Tmo soapstone disks — purchasable at a hardware store. They 
are not needed for all cooking, but with them you can cook more quickly 
and in greater variety. 



r-^\' 1^ 




iil-cajhiorv 

— collav 

-•Cookini-Vejj'el 

-Jnetal loucket 
fc>v Hejt lining 



Cross Section of Fireless Cooker. 
To Make the Fireless Cooker 

1 . Line the outside container with newspaper if a wooden box is 
used. 

2. Pack the bottom of the outside container compactly with a layer 
of the packing material to the depth of three inches or more. 

3. Cut a circle of asbestos two inches larger in diameter than the nest 
lining. Place the asbestos mat in the center of the packing. 

4. Cut a strip of asbestos big enough to cover completely the outside 
wails of the bucket which is to serve as the nest lining, and tie it in place. 



5. Place the bucket with its asbestos covering directly in the center 
on the asbestos mat. Hold in place and tightly fill in the space between 
it and the walls of the outside container v/ith the packing material. Pack 
in solidly to within one-half inch of the top of the bucket. The success of 
your cooker depends largely upon the tightness with which you crowd in 
the packing material, which prevents the heat from escaping from your 
hot food. 

6. Cut a piece of cardboard to fit in the outside container. Cut a 
hole in the middle of it which will fit closely over the bucket which forms 
the nest lining. This "collar" holds the packing material in place. 

7. Make the cushion for the top by cutting two pieces of cloth the 
size of the outside container and putting them together with a straight strip 
of cloth three inches wide. Stuff with the packing material. 

8. Outside finishings. If a box is used for the outside container, the 
lid should be hinged and fastened down with a hook. If it is of wood, 
paint or stain it a dark color. Casters make it convenient to move about. 

Some Precautions in Using the Fireless. 

Don't let the food or disks cool before you put them in the fireless. 
The food will not cook unless there is enough heat shut up with it. 
Reheat the food that requires long cooking, if it cools before it is finished. 
Reheat the food before serving, if necessary. A small quantity of food 
cools quickly, so either use the disks or put a small vessel containing 
the food in the regular cooking vessel and surround it with hot water. 

Soapstone disks will increase the usefulness of your cooker. They 
can be heated hotter than the boiling point of water and when shut up 
in the fireless furnish heat which cooks the food. If you made your 
fireless according to directions, you can safely use the disks. Heat them 
very hot, but do not let them get red hot for fear of cracking. With 
one below and one on top of the cooking vessel you will be able to roast 
meat or even to bake bread or puddings. Without the disks your fireless 
is useful only for certain kinds of food — cereals, beans, pot roasts, 
stews, etc. — things that can be cooked in water. 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^Bg^^^^ U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ^^^^^ ADMINISTRATION 



SOME FIRELESS SPECIALTIES. 

Cereals — Prepare as for the stove, but use one-sixth less water. 
Boil for 1 minutes, or longer with coarser cereals. PI- in the cooker 
boiling hot and leave six or eight hours or over night. 

Meats — Buy cheaper cuts. The fireless can make tough meat 
tender. For more recipes see Leaflet No. 5. 

CREOLE STEW. 

! lb. lean beef or 1 medium fowl. Yi cup rice. 

2 cups tomatos. ]/4 cup chopped onion. 

1 cup carrots or okra cut small. 1 teaspoon salt. 

I cup chopped sweet peppers. 1 tablespoon fat. 

Cut the meat in small pieces or cut the fowl into joints. Melt the 
fat, add the onions, peppers, meat or chicken. Brown for a few minutes. 
Put in cooking vessel with seasoning, rice, vegetables, and one cup boil- 
ing water. Simmer for one-half hour and put in fireless for three hours 
without the disks or two hours with them. With chicken and okra this 
is the famous Creole chicken of the South. 

Roasts — Sear the roast, season, place in the cooking vessel between 
two hot disks. Do not add water. Allow 25 minutes per pound. 

Soup Stock — Cut up meat, crack' bones, and cover with cold water. 
Let it reach the boiling point, then place in cooker for several hours. 

Dried Fruits and Vegetables — Peas, beans, corn, dried fruit — 
soak in water until restored to the original size. Boil a few minutes, then 
keep in the cooker 6 to 1 2 hours. Baked beans or peas are especially 
good cooked in the fireless. See Leaflet No. 1 4. 

For more recipes send to the Department of Agriculture for Farmers' 
Bulletin 771, "Homemade Fireless Cookers and Their Use." 








fH., .. ^&l 



U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^^j^^ U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ^^^^W ADMINISTRATION 



DRIED 

PEAS AND BEANS 

r^O you know how many kinds of dried peas and beans there 
^-^ are? Of course you know the white navy and the hma 
bean, but the attractive red kidney beans are very good, too. So 
are many others — the pinto, or frijole, a mottled brown and 
white bean, the black or turtle soup beans — and the other more 
or less brightly colored beans from South America and the 
Orient. These beans are similar to the kidney bean and are 
now on the market in some of our cities. The cowpea is good 
and is used in large quantities in the South and the soy bean 
which was introduced from the Orient. Both of these require 
longer cooking and are often prepared differently from the 
other varieties, so their preparation is not included in this leaflet. 

Dried peas come whole or split and may be green or yellow. 
They and the beans belong to the same plant family — the 
legumes — and they can be cooked and seasoned in much the 
same way. Try the different kinds on sale near your home and 
use a variety. Your family will like them if they are well 
cooked. 

Dry ripe peas or beans have higher food value than the green 
unripe ones because they contain less water, or juice. A pint 
of the green ones either fresh or canned makes a good vege- 
table, while a pint of the dry peas or beans makes a hearty dish 
which may serve as the main part of a meal. Yet the pint of 
dry peas costs no more than a can of green ones. 



TO COOK DRIED PEAS AND BEANS. 

You can cook them all in the same way ; then, after they are 
tender, they can be made into anything you wish — baked beans 
or peas, soup, a vegetable stew, a loaf, or a salad. 

Soak for four hours or overnight in twice as much water as there are 
peas or beans. Cook in the water in which they are soaked unless it has 
an unpleasant taste. Add more water as it boils away. Cook from one 
to two hours, depending on the age and variety and on the purpose for 
which they are to be used. If they are to be served as a vegetable, do not 
let them get too soft. They are excellent cooked in a fireless cooker. 

BEANS AND PEAS AS A VEGETABLE. 

Cook as usual. Season with butter or oleomargarine or 
other fat, salt and pepper. Or serve with a cream or tomato 
sauce. These are delicious and inexpensive vegetables. 

SOUPS. 
Black bean soup, split pea soup, cream of bean or pea, 
pur^e of beans and tomatoes — you can have all of these and 
many others. They are delicious, inexpensive, and easy to 
make. Many of them are so hearty that they can form the 
chief dish of a meal. 

Soak and cook a pint of peas or beans as usual, but take more water, 
about 2 quarts, and cook until very soft. Then put them through a sieve. 
These mashed beans and peas are ready to be made into all kinds of soups 
by adding the various seasonings, water and milk, or stock enough to 
make 2 quarts. These soups should all have a little flour added to them 
as a binder to prevent the thick part from settling to the bottom. Mix 
thoroughly 2 tablespoons fat with 2 tablespoons flour, add a little of the 
hot soup, and stir until it is smooth, and add to the remaining soup, stir- 
ring to prevent lumping, and cook for about I minutes. 



Blacf( bean soup or split pea soup — To the pulp from 1 pint beans or 
peas, add enough water or stock to make 2 quarts. Thicken with flour 
as directed. Season with salt and pepper. The juice of a lemon and 
one-half teaspoon mustard adds to the flavor. 

Cream of bean or pea soup — To the cooked and mashed pulp add 
enough milk to make 2 quarts of soup. Season and thicken with flour. 

Puree or porridge of beans and tomatoes- — Instead of milk, tomatoes 
may be used. Add a cup of canned tomatoes or three medium-sized 
tomatoes which have been cooked for 1 minutes and put through a sieve. 
If the porridge is too thick, add water or stock. Season and add the 
flour as directed. 

Bean or pea soup Tvith meat — The peas or beans are soaked as 
usual and cooked with the meat in four quarts of water instead of two. 
Use a soup or ham bone, or one-half pound of salt pork or any smoked 
meat, and cook until the beans are soft. Remove the meat and put the 
soup through a sieve. Season and thicken. The cooked meat cut in 
small pieces may be added to the soup. An onion, several stalks of 
celery or soup herbs are good cooked with the soup. 

STEWS. 

All the different varieties of peas and beans can be used 
with or without meat and with rice, vegetables, etc. See Leaf- 
let No. 5 for more suggestions and recipes. Kidney bean stew 
is especially good. For the recipe see Leaflet No. 8. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

This is such an old favorite that it needs no recommendation. 

Soak one quart beans and cook until tender, but not so soft that they 
will fall apart. If desired, one-fourth pound of salt pork may be cooked 
with them. When tender, add one-half teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon 
sugar or two tablespoons molasses, and one tablespoon salt. Bake in a 
covered dish for one and one-half hours, leaving them uncovered for the 
last 15 minutes. 

Any of the other beans are good cooked this way and so 
are dried peas. Omit the molasses if peas are used. Either 
beans or peas can be boiled and baked in a fireless cooker. 




U. S. DEPT. OF '^>^m^m^ U. S. FOOD 
AGRICULTURE ^^^^^ ADMINISTRATION 



INSTEAD-OF-MEAT-LOAF. 

2 cups cooked peas or beans. 1 tablespoon fat. 

1 cup cooked rice. ]/2 teaspoon salt or 1 teaspoon if 

I cup bread crumbs. the rice is unsalted. 

1 egg. J/8 teaspoon paprika. 

Put the peas or beans through a sieve or grind in a meat grinder. Mix 
all the ingredients well. Form into a loaf and bake until brown. Or 
croquettes may be formed, rolled in bread crumbs and browned in the 
oven. Baste frequently with small amounts of liquid containing a 
tablespoon of fat to a cup of hot water. 

SALADS. 

Cook the beans and peas as usual until just tender. Let them get 
thoroughly cold. Add a little minced onion, celery, green pepper, or 
the same amount of shredded cabbage as there is beans or peas. Season 
with salt and paprika, and mix with the salad dressing. Serve on lettuce. 
A tomato stuffed with the mixture makes a delicious salad. 

BEANS AND PEAS ARE VALUABLE FOOD. 

They can be used in place of much of the meat we eat. 
They are rich in materials which the body needs — the body- 
building proteins, iron and some of the other minerals, and 
they give the body a large amount of fuel. It is not wise to 
use the beans and peas as our only protein food, however, and 
leave out milk, meat, or fish entirely. But many of us can use 
less meat which is more expensive and is needed to send abroad 
to our fighters and the Allies. 




AGRICULTURE ^^^^^P^ ADMINISTRATION 



FRESH VEGETABLES. 

GOOD TO EAT AND GOOD FOR YOUR 
HEALTH. 

Do you eat them every day, many kinds? Cook them so 
that they are refreshing and palatable, and your family will 
call for them over and over again. 

Use all kinds of vegetables — whatever you grow in 
your own garden or what you can buy in the market. Vege- 
tables should be plentiful this summer, for all over the country 
people have made war gardens. You can't afford to miss 
using vegetables; they mean vigor and health for you. Use 
what you can while they are fresh and at their best, and if you 
have more than you can use now, can, dry, or preserve them 
in other ways for winter use. 

Use lettuce, onions, cabbage, cauliflower, chard, 
spinach, Brussels sprouts and others like them. These 
will come along all through the summer and fall. They give 
you the iron and lime and other minerals that you need to 
build your body and keep it in repair and the special sub- 
stances that help make children grow and keep adults healthy. 
Eat them yourselves, and give them to your children. 

If you live in the country you can gather wild greens which 
are just as good as those that grow in your garden. In the 
city, too, you can often gather from vacant lots such good 
things as dandelion, wild mustard, lamb's quarter, and wild 
lettuce. 

Don't throw away your tender beet tops, onion tops, turnip 
or radish tops. Cook them for greens. 




United States Food Leaflet No. 16. 



Use potatoes, sweet potatoes, Lima beans, green 
corn, green peas, onions, beets, carrots, squash. Such 
vegetables give you fuel, besides the minerals, and some of 
them give you protein. They can help you save meat and 
v^heat. When you serve enough vegetables you do not need 
as much bread. 

Remember the many good things vegetables can do for 
your body. They help keep your blood as it ought to be, and 
your whole body in good condition. Vegetables are better than 
medicine to prevent the common evil of constipation. 

And, besides all these, think how appetizing they are — 
crisp lettuce, sweet, juicy beets, tender peas, celery, beans, and 
corn — all sorts of flavors and textures to lend variety to your 
meals. 

POINTS TO REMEMBER IN COOKING FRESH 
VEGETABLES. 

Vegetables just out of the garden taste best when simply 
cooked — steamed, boiled or baked — and served with a little 
salt, butter, milk or cream. Often a heavily-seasoned sauce 
covers up the more desirable vegetable flavor. 

Overcooking of vegetables impairs their flavor. Very deli- 
cate flavors are destroyed, while vegetables with strong flavors, 
such as cabbage or onions, become disagreeably strong if 
cooked too long. Overcooking also destroys the attractive 
color of some vegetables. 

Cook summer vegetables as soon after they are gathered as 
you can, in order to preserve the flavor. If they must be kept 
over, keep in the ice box or some other cool place. 

Let wilted vegetables soak in cold water to freshen them. 
If vegetables must stand after paring, covering with cold water 
will prevent wilting and discoloration. 



Before cooking, put head vegetables and greens in cold 
water for an hour, with one tablespoon of vinegar, to remove 
insects, then wash very carefully. 

Drain all boiled vegetables as soon as tender — they become 
soggy if they are allowed to stand undrained after cooking. 
The water drained off may be saved for soup stock. 

Most vegetables should be cooked in a small amount of 
water, because a part of the mineral salts dissolves out into the 
water, and is lost if the water is thrown away. Cook whole 
when possible. 

Tender spinach or lettuce leaves require no added water 
for cooking. If thoroughly washed, enough water will cling 
to the leaves to prevent their burning. 

Delicately-flavored vegetables should be steamed or cooked 
slowly in a small amount of boiling water until tender and the 
water boils away. 

Strong-flavored vegetables may be cooked uncovered in a 
large amount of rapidly-boiling water, and the water changed 
several times during cooking. 

Starchy vegetables should be put on to cook in a sufficiently 
large amount of boiling water to cover them. Boil gently, 
and keep kettle covered. 

The time required for cooking vegetables depends on the 
kind, size, and age of the vegetable. You must use your judg- 
ment in deciding when they are done, but a time-table may 
help you. 

Time-Table for Cooking Fresh Vegetables in Water. 

Asparagus 1 5-20 minutes. Corn, green 1 0-1 5 m 

Beans, Lima Onions 20-30 m 

(green) V^,- 1 hour. Parsnips 30-45 m 

Beans, string 1-3 hours. Peas, green 20-30 m 

Beets, old 3-4 hours. Potatoes 30-40 m 

Beets, young %- I hour. Spinach I 5-30 m 

Cabbage ...... 20-30 minutes. Squash 20-30 m 

Carrots 30-60 minutes. Turnips 30-45 m 

Cauliflower .... 20-30 minutes. 



nutes. 
nutes. 
nutes. 
nutes. 
nutes. 
nutes. 
nutes. 
nutes. 




U. S. DEPT. OF WsSSKS& ^- S- ^OO^ 
AGRICULTURE ^^F^^siF ADMINISTRATION 



Creamed Onions and Tops. 

Select small onions no larger than your finger in size. Cut off the un- 
even ends of the tops, leaving about three inches of the green part above 
the onion. Boil until tender in salted water and serve with a simple white 
sauce on toast as asparagus is served. 

The tops are very good served alone, cut into pieces, boiled until 
tender and served with white sauce. 

Young beets may be cooked with their tops and stems and all served 
together also. Serve buttered or with vinegar as preferred. 

Green corn is delicious boiled on the cob and served but- 
tered, or for a different way, try this baked dish. None of 
the sweetness of the corn is wasted when cooked this way : 

Green-Corn Pudding. 

This is a delicious way to serve either sweet corn or the tender field 
corn. A little sugar may be added to the field corn, if desired. 

Husk and silk 1 2 good-sized ears of corn, .^lice off half the kernel 
with a sharp knife, and with the blunt edge of the knife scrape out the 
milky part that remains on the cob. Add a tablespoon of butter, salt, 
and pepper, and three-fourths cup of milk. Bake for 45 minutes, allow- 
ing it to brown on top. This makes a creamy dish, which is best served 
in the pan or baking dish in which it bakes. 

Buttered Carrots. 

Wash and scrape small carrots and cut in narrow strips. Cook three 
cups of the carrots in just enough water to cover. When carrots are 
tender and only a small amount of water remains, add a tablespoon of 
butter. Cook slowly until almost all of the remaining water has evap- 
orated. The carrots will have a delicious flavor cooked this way and 
none of the minerals will be wasted. String beans cut in halves length- 
wise or parsnips cut in strips are also good served this way. 

Remember that vegetables have their own particular part 
to play in the diet, which neither meats nor cereals nor fruits 
nor sweets can play. 




U. S. DEFT. OF T^mSSM^ ^- ^- ^^^^ 
AGRICULTURE ^^^^^B^ ADMINISTRATION 



USE MORE FISH 

FISH IN PLACE OF MEAT— REAL FOOD 
CONSERVATION 

'T'O produce meat you have to feed corn or other valuable 
-■• grain to the cattle, sheep, or hogs. The seas, lakes, and 
rivers offer quantities of fish that live on food which is of no 
use to man, so when you eat fish you save meat and save grain, 
both of which your Government asks you to conserve, 

FISH IS GOOD NUTRITIOUS FOOD. 

Fish, like meat, is a food rich in protein, and you will be 
just as well nourished if you eat it instead of meat. Most 
other nations have recognized this and use more fish and less 
meat than we. Learn attractive ways of serving it and use 
it often. Use fresh, dried, smoked, salt, and canned fish — 
whichever is most convenient. Try new varieties. There 
are many good fish almost unknown to us now, that would be 
available if there were a market for them. The sable fish of 
the Pacific coast, and the tilefish of the Atlantic are varieties 
that people are just beginning to use. 

. PUT TWO FRIDAYS IN EVERY WEEK. 

If fresh fish is not available in your locality more than once 
a week, a little community effort will bring it to your market 
when you want it. If 20 or 30 families decide upon an 
extra fish day the dealer will cooperate and have fish for sale. 

United States Food Leaflet No. 17 




HOW TO SELECT A FRESH FISH. 
When possible, go to market and select the fish yourself. 
You can tell a fresh fish by full bright eyes, bright red gills, 
firm flesh, and fresh odor. Be sure that the flesh along the 
back bone smells fresh. It spoils first there. Don't buy fish 
that has been thawed out several days before its sale, for it 
spoils quickly after thawing. If frozen, fish will keep in good 
condition for months. Buy it frozen and let it thaw in a cool 
place, then cook it immediately. 

ADD DIFFERENT FISH TO THE FAMILY DIET. 

FRESH FISH. 

You should be able to get these in season in your locality: 

New England. — Alewife, cod, cusk, flounder, goosefish, gray- 
fish, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, mackerel, mullet, pollock, salmon, 
scup, sea trout, shad, smelt, squeteague, sword fish, tilefish, whiting. 

Middle Atlantic. — Alewife, bass, bluefish, butterfish, carp, cat- 
fish, cod, flounder, goosefish, halibut, mackerel, perch, rock, salmon, 
shad, smelt, spot, tilefish, weakfish, whiting. 

South Atlantic. — Alewife, bass, bluefish, carp, catfish, drumfish, 
mullet, perch, shad, Spanish mackerel, spot, squeteague. 

Pacific Coast.— Barracuda, bass, flounder, grayfish, halibut, 
herring, pike, rockfish, gable fish, salmon, smelt, trout. 

Mississippi Valley. — Black bass, bowfin, buffalo, burbot, carp, 
catfish, crappie, drumfish, pike, red snapper, rock bass, sturgeon, sucker. 

Great Lakes. — Bass, bowfin, burbot, carp, catfish, drumfish, 
lake herring, lake trout, perch, pike, sturgeon. 

Gulf. — Barracuda, buffalo, carp, catfish, croaker, drumfish, mul- 
let, Spanish mackerel, squeteague, sturgeon. 

SALT. SMOKED, AND CANNED FISH. 

These may be had the year round and deserve to be used more exten- 
sively. Ask your grocer if he has these kinds for sale: 

Dried Salt Fish. — Barracuda, burbot, channel bass, cod, had- 
dock, hake, pollock, shark, whiting. 

Brine Salted Fish. — Herring, mackerel, mullet, sable fish, sal- 
mon, shad. 

Smoked Fish. — Carp, catfish, eel, finnan haddie, hake, halibut, 
lake trout, pollock, salmon, sturgeon, whitefish. 

Canned Fish. — Cod, grayfish, haddock, herring, mackerel, sal- 
mon, sardine, tuna fish. 

Send to the Bureau of Fisheries, Washington, D. C, for Economic 
Circular No. 29, which gives sixty-one ways of cooking salt and 
smoked fish. 



SIMPLE WAYS OF COOKING FISH. 

Broiled Fish. — Broiling over coals or under the gas flame until 
brown is a favorite way of preparing the smaller fish. Fresh fish of 
one to two pounds size, or smoked fish, such as finnan haddie, bowfin, 
or white fish, are delicious served in this way. 

Wash fish, split, season, dot with fat, place on greased broiler, 
and broil until the flakes can be easily separated. If a gas broiler is 
used, place the rack several inches below the flame and brown. Sliced 
lemon makes an attractive garnish and gives additional flavor. 

Boiled Fish. — Boiled fish is easily prepared, and, when served 
with a well-seasoned sauce, is delicious. Cook whole or, if too large, 
cut in pieces. Cover with boiling salted water, but do not allow it to 
boil rapidly, as hard boiling breaks the fish. Cook for I minutes per 
pound. Strong-flavored fish, such as carp, is improved by adding a 
half cup of vinegar to the cooking water. 

Baked Fish. — Use the whole fish or a piece from the middle 
of a large one. If desired, stuff with mashed potatoes, cooked rice, 
or Victory bread well seasoned. Cut gashes down the back and insert 
strips of salt pork or dot with fat. Dredge with fine corn meal, place 
in a baking pan and cook till tender, allowing 1 or 12 minutes a 
pound. Sometimes fish is baked in a tomato sauce or in milk enough 
to cover the bottom of the pan. 

Fried Fish uses fat which we are asked to conserve. Try the 
other ways of cooking fish. 

Sauces to Serve with Fish. — To make white sauce melt 2 
tablespoons fat, add 1 J/2 tablespoons cornstarch and 1 teaspoon salt, and 
blend well. Add 2 cups cold milk and stir over the fire until the mixture 
thickens. Cook about 1 minutes over hot water. Use this sauce as the 
basis for creamed or scalloped fish dishes. To make lemon sauce add 2 
tablespoons of lemon juice to white sauce just before taking from the fire. 
For egg sauce add a chopped hard-boiled egg to white sauce before 
serving. Tomato sauce is made just as the white sauce, using strained 
tomato in place of milk. Mixed with shredded smoked fish it is delicious 
when served hot on toasted Victory bread. 

TO EXTEND THE FLAVOR OF FISH. 

Strong-flavored fish may be made more palatable by combining them 
with a large amount of mild-flavored material. The next recipes do 
this successfully. 

Scalloped Fish. 
1 !/2 cups fish. I cup white sauce. 

I j/2 cups cooked rice or riced 
potatoes. 
Use canned, dried, salt, or left-over fresh fish. If dried fish is used, 
soak first. Shred the fish and arrange in alternate layers with rice or 
potatoes and white sauce. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake. 



U. S. DEPT. OF 
AGRICULTURE 




U. S. FOOD 
ADMINISTRATION 



Fish Loaf. 

1 cup shredded fish (smoked, sah 
or canned). 

6 potatoes, boiled and riced. 

2 cups cooked rice or fine hominy. 



1 egg. 

|/4 cup milk. 

Yl teaspoon celery salt. 

Yl teaspoon salt. 



!/8 teaspoon paprika. 

1 egg. 

Ya cup milk. 



Form into loaf and bake 20 minutes. Serve with a sauce. 

Fish Timbales. 
Very attractive and delicious served with an acid sauce. 
1 cup salmon, tuna, or gray fish. Yl teaspoon salt. 

I cup softened Victory bread 

crumbs. 
1 cup mashed potatoes, cooked 
rice, or hominy. 

Mix ingredients in order given. Pour into small buttered molds, 
place on rack in pan, and surround with hot water. Cover and bake 
until mixture is firm. Turn from the molds and serve with a sauce. 

THE SMALL AMOUNT OFTEN LEFT OVER. 

You can use left-over fish to make a fish mold, which is especially 
good served on a lettuce leaf with salad dressing. 

Fish Mold. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoons vinegar. 
] Yl tablespoons cold water. 
Yl teaspoon salt. 
14 teaspoon celery seed. 

Beat eggs until light, add seasonings, water, and vinegar, and beat 
thoroughly. Cook over boiling water until thickened. Soften one table- 
spoon of gelatin in '/4 cup cold water and dissolve by placing over 
hot water. Add dissolved gelatin and 1 cup of left-over fish to the 
dressing given above. Mold in individual cups or one large mold. 

USE THE FISH— SHIP THE MEAT. 



1/3 teaspoon sugar. 
1 tablespoon gelatin. 
Ya cup cold water. 
1 cup minced fish. 




U. S. DEPT. OF W^^S^S^ ^- ^- POOD 

AGRICULTURE ^'^^^^W ADMINISTRATION' 



RICE 



YOU need not tire of rice, for it can be served in so many 
different ways. 

As a breakfast cereal. — Served hot or cold with top milk 
or with fruit it is delicious. 

As a starchy vegetable it can take the place of bread. Serve 
it hot, buttered, or with gravy. It is especially good with 
chicken. 

In soup making. — For thickening use the water in which rice 
cooked. Cooked rice is also an addition to soup. 

In breads. — Use it in quick breads or in Victory bread. 

Instead of bread crumbs in scalloped dishes, for loaves, or 
stuffing. 

For desserts. — You can make good and nutritious rice 
desserts. Let rice dishes find their way to your table often. 

THE ART OF COOKING RICE. 
Southern people, who use more rice than the other people 
of the United States, have many good methods of cooking it. 
They will tell you that rice when well cooked has each grain 
well swollen but separate from every other grain. 

To Boil Rice Southern Style. — Have a quart of water boiling 
rapidly. Add a level teaspoon of salt. Wash a cup of rice carefully 
and add it a little at a time, slowly so that the boiling does not stop. 
Boil for about 20 minutes or until a grain taken between the finger and 
thumb is soft. Drain through a colander and pour a little hot water 
through the rice to separate the grains. Cover with a cloth and set in 
a warm place on the stove for about 10 minutes to allow the grains 
to swell, or place it in the upper part of a double boiler over hot water. 




United States Food Leaflet No. 18. 



cover, and allow to steam. If you cook rice in this way the water in 
which the rice is cooked should be saved, as much starchy material is 
left in it. Use it for thickening soups. One cup of raw rice makes 
four cups of boiled rice. 

Other Ways to Cook Rice. — Some people prefer to cook rice 
in a double boiler so that none of the food material is lost. If you cook 
rice in this way, use only 2 J/2 or 3 cups of water to 1 cup of rice. 
Have the water boiling in the upper part of the double boiler, add a 
teaspoon of salt and a cup of well-washed rice. Cover and allow to 
cook over water until the grains are soft. When rice is cooked in this 
way, the product is more moist than when cooked Southern style, so 
when used in scalloped dishes or in breads less liquid is required. 

Rice cooked in milk. — If yo" have plenty of skim milk, try this way. 
Use 4 or 41/2 cups of milk to 1 cup of rice. Add the rice to the hot 
salted milk and cook until the milk is absorbed and the grains soft. The 
milk greatly increases the food value of the dish. 

Rice prepared in any of these ways may be used for making many 
dishes. 

RICE IN PLACE OF BREAD CRUMBS. 
As a Basis for Scalloped Dishes cooked rice may be combined 
with vegetables, meat, fish, cheese, or nuts to make dishes that may serve 
acceptably as the main part of a meal. Try this oyster scallop. 

Oyster Scallop. 

3 cups cooked rice. I tablespoon cornstarch. 

I pint fresh oysters. I tablespoon fat. 

1 cup chopped celery. '/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup milk. Vs teaspoon pepper. 

Make a white sauce by melting the fat, stirring in the cornstarch, 
salt, and pepper, then adding the milk. Stir over the fire until thick- 
ened. Arrange in a baking dish alternate layers of rice, oysters, celery, 
and white sauce until the dish is nearly full. Let a layer of rice cover 
the top. Bake for 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

As Stuffing for Peppers and Tomatoes. — Rice mixed v/ith 
seasonings and a little minced meat, ground nuts, or grated cheese makes 
a good stuffing for tomatoes or green peppers. 

As Stuffing for Meats. — Try stuffing chicken or fish with rice. 
A stuffed steak is also good. 



Stuffed Steak. 

1 pound round steak. 2 tablespoons chopped parsley. 

2 cups boiled rice. 1 teaspoon onion juice. 
Salt. Paprika. 

Blend the rice with the seasoning. Pound the steak until thin. 
Spread the steak with a layer of the rice stuffing about % of an inch 
thick. Roll and tie in shape or fasten with skewers. Put in a cov- 
ered pan with enough water to keep from burning and cook in the oven 
for 30 minutes. Take off the cover and brown before removing from 
the oven. Thicken the stock left in the pan for gravy. Or, if preferred, 
make individual servings. Cut a 3-inch square of steak, place a table- 
spoon of the dressing in the center, roll the steak around it and fasten. 
Place in a pan with a little water and cook as the roast was cooked. 
These are very good served with a tomato sauce. 

Meat Substitute Loaf. 

1 cup cooked salted rice. 2 tablespoons chopped onion cooked 
1 cup crushed peanuts. until soft in Yl <^up water. 

I egg. I tablespoon fat. 

I cup cottage cheese. ' Ya teaspoon pepper. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Make into a loaf and bake. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

OTHER HEARTY DISHES USING RICE. 
Rice Souffle. 
Delicious for a breakfast dish. 

3 eggs. 1 cup medium white sauce. 
I cup cooked rice. 

Beat the yolks and add to the white sauce made as in the Oyster 
Scallop. Add the boiled rice. Beat whites very light and fold in 
the other materials. Turn into a greased skillet and cook as an omelet 
at moderate heat until the under surface is browned, then turn out on a 
hot plate, or, bake in a greased pan in the oven until a knife blade when 
inserted in the center comes out clean. Three tablespoons grated 
cheese may be added if desired. 
See also the recipes in other leaflets. 

Calcutta Rice, Leaflet No. 8. 

Dried Peas and Rice, Leaflet No. 3. 

Kidney Bean Stew, Leaflet No. 8. 

Creamed Peanuts and Rice, Leaflet No. 8. 

Rice Spinach Loaf, Leaflet No. 9. 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^ggSS^ U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ^"^^^^^ ADMINISTRATION 



RICE IN BREADS. 

Soft Rice Bread. 

1 cup cooked rice. % teaspoon salt. 

J/2 cup corn flour. 1 tablespoon fat. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 

Mix the rice, fat, salt, and well-beaten yolk of egg. Add the flour 
and milk. Mix thoroughly and fold in the well-beaten white of egg. 
Pour into a greased baking dish and bake Yi hour in a moderate oven. 

Rice Corn Bread. 

1 J/2 cups cooked rice. 54 teaspoon salt. 

1 J/2 cups com meal. 1 egg. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. I tablespoon fat. 
I cup milk. 

Mix as ordinary corn bread. Bake in a loaf. Corn flour may be 
used in place of corn meal. 

RICE DESSERTS. 

Molded Rice. — Press the rice while warm into individual molds. 
Unmold when cold and serve with fresh fruit and cream. Crushed 
strawberries and rice served in this way are especially good. 

Rice Custard. — Add a cup of boiled rice to soft custard. 

Stuffed Apples. — Stuff the center of whole cored apples with 
boiled rice and raisins. 

Creamy Rice Pudding. 
1 quart milk. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1/3 cup rice (uncooked). j/s teaspoon ground nutmeg. 

1/3 cup sugar. 

Wash the rice, mix all the materials together, and bake for three 
hours in a very slow oven, stirring down frequently. 




u. s. DEPT. OF wm&&mmif u. s. food 

AGRICULTURE ^'^^^^W ADMINISTRATION 

HOMINY. 

AMERICANS! Have we forgotten some of the best 
foods we once knew? Are you using hominy? Wh;y 
not follow the example of our forefathers and use i nuch c f 
this good corn product? The first settlers of America learned 
from the Indians how to prepare the Indian corn for use. 
They removed the hulls from the dry grain by pounding it 
in a mortar with a pestle. The cracked corn they called by 
the Indian name "hominy.** Hominy became one of their 
staple foods without which they would often have gone 
hungry. They cooked it in huge iron kettles hung over th(i 
blazing logs in the open fireplace. 

They also learned to remove the germ and hull from the 
corn by boiling the grain with lye and then washing thoroughly/ 
They sometimes called this product "hulled corn" but it is now 
more often called "lye hominy.** 

There are several kinds of hominy on the market. If you\ 
do not know how good they are, try them and find out. 

^; KINDS OF HOMINY. 

The coarse hominy, samp, or pearl hominy. — This 
IS much like the hominy the pioneers used. The grain is split 
to remove the germ, hulled and polished by machinery. It 
IS much used, particularly in the Central and Eastern States. 
It is worth using everywhere. 

The fine hominy or hominy grits. — This is made by 
grinding the coarse hominy. Grits are excellent served as a 
vegetable much as rice is used. Grits are alpo used in many 
parts of the country as a breakfast food. 




United States Food Leaflet No. 19. 



Lye !)toininy. — Lye hominy is made at home by many 
and also made commercially by boiling the grain in lye or 
potash until the germ v/ill come out and then washing out the 
lye. In many places it may be bought in bulk, and is also sold 
canned. It may be dried for future use or canned at home. 

All varieties of hominy are good nourishing food. Like 
wheat, rice, and other cereals they give both body fuel and 
body-building material at a comparatively low price. Let 
them have a larger place in your diet. 

HOMINY DISHES. 

Try the dishes for which recipes are given below. 
' HOMINY GRITS. 

Boiled Hominy Grits. 
Equally good as a breakfast cereal or as a vegetable. 
1 cup hominy grits. 2 teaspoons salt. 

5 cups water. 

Add the grits slowly to the salted boiling water. Boil 1 minutes 
over fire, then place in the fireless cooker and allow to remain overnight, 
or cook for one hour in a double boiler, 
y, The grits may be poured while warm into a dish or molds and 

served cold with fruit or preserves for a simple dessert, or it may be 
poured into deep pans and the cold mush sliced and fri^d. 

Hominy Breads. 

^ Hominy grits can save flour in bread making. Try these quick breads 

sti Ujing hominy grits. 

Hominy Muffins. 
1 cup cold boiled hominy grits. 1 !/4 cups corn flour, 
be 1 cup sweet milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. ]/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted fat. 

Beat milk and egg into the hominy grits, add melted fat an:^ dry in- 
gredients. Mix well and bake in well-greased muffin pans ."or 30 
minutes. Makes 1 2 muffins. 



ho 



Corn Meal and Hominy Bread. 
Try this variation of corn bread. 

1 cup corn meal. 1 tablespoon melted fat. 

1 cup boiled hominy grits. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 cup milk. |/2 teaspoon salt. 

1 egg. 



Beat milk and egg into the hominy grits, add melted fat and dry 
ingredients and mix well. 

This batter may be baked in a greased pan and served with a spoon 
from the dish in which it is baked as a spoon bread, or it may be cooked 
on a griddle and served as griddle cakes. 

Hominy Date Pudding. 

You can use hominy grits to make a delicious and nutritious pudding. 

1 cup hominy grits. !4 cup com sirup, or 

5 cups milk (skim or whole). Yq cup sugar. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 cup chopped seeded dates. 

1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Add the salt and hominy grits to the milk and cook in a double 
boiler one hour. Add sweetening, dates, and vanilla and mix well. 
Partially cool before serving. 

Fruit Scallop. 

1 !/2 cups 'cooked hominy grits. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

I cup stewed apricots. ' J/2 tablespoon butter. 

J/2 cup apricot juice. 

Into a greased baking dish place first a layer of the hominy grits 
which have been mixed with the fruit juice, then a layer of the stewed 
fruit. Repeat until dish is nearly full. Dot over with the butter and 
sprinkle with 1 tablespoon of sugar mixed with cinnamon. Bake until 
brown. Serve hot or cold with sauce or top milk. 

Dried or canned fruit can be used. Corn sirup can be used to 
sweeten the fruit. 

COARSE HOMINY OR SAMP. 

This kind of hominy requires much longer cooking than the grits. If 
you have a fireless cooker, use it to cook your hominy, or if you use a 
coal range, cook it in a double boiler on the back of the stove. It is 
wise to cook a large quantity at once, as it keeps well if kept in a cool 
place. 

To cook in a fireless cooker: Soak 1 cup coarse hominy in 2 cups 
water for 6 hours or overnight. Add 6 cups boiling water and 3 
teaspoons salt to the soaked hominy and boil over the fire for 45 min- 
utes. Put in the cooker and let it remain there for 8 to 1 2 hours. To 
cook it soft it may be necessary to reheat the hominy and put it back 
in the cooker the second time. 

If cooked in a double boiler more water may be needed, or a cup 
of milk stirred in about 15 minutes before removing from the fire. 




U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^^^mW U. S. FOOD 
AGRICULTURE ^"^K^^ ADMINISTRATION 



Boiled hominy may be used in a great many ways. 

Serve it with milk for a breakfast cereal. 

Serve it plain as a vegetable in place of potatoes or rice, or brown 
it in a little fat. 

Either the pearl or the lye hominy cooked until soft may be used 
for the next two recipes, which will serve as the main dish of a meal. 

Hominy Turnover. 

I pint cooked pearl hominy. 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 cup milk. 2 well-beaten eggs. 

Mix all together. Turn this into a frying pan in which a tablespoon 
of fat has been melted. Stir until hot throughout. Let it cook until 
golden brown on the bottom, then fold like an omelet and serve on a 
hot platter. 

Scalloped Hominy. 

Arrange alternate layers of boiled coarse hominy and minced meat or 
fish or grated cheese. Pour over all a cup of white sauce and bake for 
30 minutes. 

Hominy and Bean Cakes. 

I cup boiled coarse hominy. I teaspoon salt. 

1 cup cooked red kidney beans. Yi cup milk. 

Yl teaspoon cayenne pepper. I tablespoon fat. 

Yl tablespoon corn starch. 

Make a white sauce from the last five ingredients by melting fat, 
blending with corn starch, salt, and pepper, adding the milk and cooking 
until thickened. Grind the hominy and beans through a food chopper, 
mix with the white sauce, form into cakes and brown in a little fat. Such 
cakes can take the place of meat. 

USE MORE HOMINY. 
IT IS A REAL AMERICAN FOOD. 





U. S. DEPT. OF ^^^S^e^ ^- S- FOOD 

AGRICULTURE ^>^^^^F ADMINISTRATION 



Wheatless Breads and Cakes. 

SAVE THE WHEAT FOR VICTORY. 

/^UR soldiers and those of the Allies who are fighting in 
^^ France must have bread. America must send them wheat. 
Every American has a chance to help. We must use one-half 
or. even less of the usual amount of wheat if our soldiers are to 
have the bread they need. 

TO SAVE THE WHEAT USE THE WHEAT 
SUBSTITUTES. Corn meal, rolled oats, rice, and buck- 
wheat — these are usually found everywhere. Besides you can 
now get barley flour, ground oats, corn /lour, rice flour, and 
potato flour in many markets. In some places peanut flour, 
sweet potato meal, soy bean flour, kaffir, milo, and feterita 
meal can be obtained for use. Choose the ones easiest to get 
in your neighborhood and use them in place of wheat. 

Whole wheat and graham flour, macaroni, and the wheat 
breakfast foods should be saved just the same as white flour. 
We are also asked to save rye. 

USE QUICK BREADS. American people have always 
used and liked quick breads. Try the wheat substitutes for 
making them. They are delicious and they can save a grea^ 
deal of wheat for our soldiers. 

Corn meal is one of the best of the wheat substitutes. For 
its use see U. S. Food Leaflet No. 2. 




United States Food Leaflet No. 20. 



QUICK BREADS REQUIRING NO WHEAT. 

Barley Biscuits. 
Have you ever mac'e barley biscuits? They are worth trying. 
2 cups barley flour. Yi teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons fat. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

2/3 cup milk. 
Sift the dry ingredients together, mix in the fat, and add the liquid 
until a soft dough is formed. Roll to about three-fourths inch thick, 
cut with a cooky cutter, and bake in a hot oven. 
This makes a very go' d dough for shortcake also. 

Buckwheat Breakfast Cake. 
Tliis is good, if served hot. 

2 cups buckwheat flour. 2 cups sour milk. 

Ya cup shortening. I teaspoon soda. 

Yi teaspoon salt. 
Mix and bake in a flat pan so that the cake is about I /^ inches 
thick when done. Cut in squares and serve hot like corn bread. 

Waffles or Griddle Cakes. 

1 Yl cups milk. 2 cups barley flour. 

2 eggs. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 
2 tablespoons fat. I teaspoon salt. 

Com flour or half corn flour and half peanut flour may be used 
instead of barley flour. 

Sift the dry inc edients together and add slowly the milk, beaten 
egg yolk, and mel ed fat. Beat thoroughly for a minute and fold in 
stffiy beaten whites. Jook in hot well-greased waffle iron or as griddle 
cakes on a hot well- greased griddle. 

Oats are good for quick breads. Rolled oats may be 
ground through a food chopper and used in this form in quick 
breads or cakes, or ground oats may be bought as such. 

Try these oatmeal and corn-flour muffins: 

Oatmeal (Ground Oats) and Corn-Flour Muffins. 

1 cup milk. I cup oatmeal. 

2 eggs. 1 cup corn flour. 

I tablespoon melted fat. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon salt. 
Sift the dry ingredients together and add to the liquid. Stir in the 
melted fat. Bake in well-greased muffin molds for 25 minutes. 
For Scotch Oat Wafers see U S. Food Leaflet No. 6. 



Tliese quick breads must take the place of much of the 
, yeaSt bread we are accustomed to using. The yeast bread we 
do use should be Victory bread. The bakers of this country 
are now making this Victory bread which contains 25 per cent, 
of wheat substitutes, just as the bakers in France and England 
are using wheat substitutes in their yeast bread. Waste none 
of the bread, for all products containing wheat are precious. 

Loaf bread that can be sliced and sei-ved cold or toasted 
is often wanted. Try this conservation loaf: 

Oat and Corn-Flour Bread. 

2 cups rolled oats (ground). % cup milk. 

2/3 cup corn flour. 2 eggs. 

4 teaspoons baking powder. 4 tablespoons corn sirup. 

I teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons melted fat. 

Mix the melted fat, liquid, sirup, and egg. Add the well-mixed dry 
ingredients. Bake as a loaf in a moderately hot oven for one hour or 
longer. Nuts or raisins may be added, if desired. 

QUICK BREADS FOR AMERICANS! Victory 
bread saves wheat flour, but we can save more by making 
quick breads, which require no wheat. Let Americans use 
them now for the Cause of Liberty. We can not ask the 
women of France, many of whom are working twelve or four- 
teen hours a day in the field or factory, to make these breads. 
They are not accustomed to them and have no ovens in their 
homes for baking. Even in the little country towns they buy 
all their bread from the baker, and the bakeries are not 
equipped to make such breads. We cannot ask the men in 
the trenches to use the quick breads either, for all their bread 
must be baked by army bakers in the bakeries back of the lines. 

It is our duty to use quick breads here in America, where 
we know how to make them and have facilities for baking 
them. Remember when you take the extra trouble to make 
a quick bread for a meal you help to make it possible for the 
soldier in the trench or the French woman who is doing a man's 
work **over there" to have a loaf of bread. 



A 




U. S. DEPT. OF m Wej gj EM M U. S. FOOD 

AGRICULTURE n^^B^^ ADMINISTRATlOl 



WHEATLESS CAKE AND PASTRY. 
Very good cake and pastry can be made from the wheat 
substitutes. 

Pastry. 

2 cups barley flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1/3 cup fat. Water to make a stiff dough. 

Combine as for other pastry. 

Chocolate Cake. 
This is a true conservation cake, for it saves sugar as well as wheat. 
j/4 cup fat. Yl cup milk. 

3 tablespoons brown sugar. 2 cups barley flour. 

2 eggs. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup corn sirup. j/4 teaspoon '^It. \ 

2 squares chocolate (melted). I teaspoon vanilla.^^ 

Cream the fat and sugar, add the egg yolks, sirup, and melted 
chocolate, and beat well. Sift the dry ingredients together and add 
alternately with the milk. Add vanilla and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake in loaf or layers in a moderate oven. 

OTHER WAYS TO SAVE WHEAT. 

Cut })our loaf at the table slice by shce as needed. Waste 
not a crumb. 

Waste no flour oh the bread board when you make bread. 

For thickening. — Use cornstarch or the substitute flours. 
Fine corn meal is good for dredging meats. Every little bit of 
flour saved counts. 

Have breadless meals. — Eat potatoes or cooked cereals to 
take the place of bread. When you have potatoes, rice, or 
hominy served with meat, or for breakfast a large bowl of 
cereal, you do not need bread. 



m 



''s^mmi 




BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 782 7 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



