
ss3HONO0dOAuvaan 



^ „ li^ 



THE 

BUSINESS 

or BEING A 

HOUSEWIFE 



A MANUAL 
TO PROMOTE 
HOUSEHOLD 
EFFICIENCY 
AND ECONOMY 

EDITED BY j, 

JEAN PRESCOTTADAI^ f^**^ ' ^' 
DOMESTIC SCIENCE DIREOOR * — 

ARMOUR f~° COMPANY 

CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 

MILDRED MADDOCKS 

DIRECTOR OF GOOD HOUSEKEEPING 

INSTITUTE 

JANET McKENZIE HILL 

EDITOR AMERICAN COOKERY 

LUCY G.ALLEN 

BOSTON SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

ANNA B. SCOTT 

LA DIES' HOM E JOURNAL 

MART AW. BILLIARD 

BOSTON SCHOOL OF COOKERY 

AUCE DYNES FEULING 

LECTURER 



Copyright, 1917, Armour and Company 



K-Js^f^-^y 



ewife'x^tVO 



The Business of Being a Housewife ^, 

THE preparation of food and the management of a home is the oldest 
business on earth. To-day the knowledge of housewifery has been 
systematized into an exact science, taught in colleges, expounded on the 
lecture platform, elaborated and popularized by means of books, magazines 
and newspaper pages. 

The business of Armour and Company is to gather the choice food prod- 
ucts of America, to prepare, to standardize them so quality can be guaranteed 
and recognized at a glance, and then to distribute them to the world. To do 
this in a manner that will insure the highest quality food to the consumer at 
lowest possible cost for the necessary handling and preparing is the ideal on 
which the Armour institution is founded. In this connection the Armour 
Department of Domestic Science, under the direction of Mrs. Jean Prescott 
Adams, is a most active aid. 

Mrs. Adams understands the housewives' needs; she also knows the vast 
range and vairiety of Armour food products, the high standard that governs 
their choice, the expert and sanitary conditions under which they are prepared. 
Much that has been accomplished in our laboratories and experimental kitchens 
we feel is of use to Ihe general public, and, therefore, in this little manual we 
are offering some condensed, practical ideas regarding food preparation and 
recipes, with tested methods of promoting household efficiency and economy 
not generally treated in books on cookery. 

Beginning with a full list of foods, arranged so that well-balanced menus 
can be easily selected for the various meals, the book follows on with much 
technicjil information. This includes foundation recipes, or the elementary 
principles on which many dishes of similar nature may be built, chart show- 
ing the correct distribution of foods in the kitchen, a scientific method of deep 
fat frying and a chart of meat cuts, with suggestions for properly cooking the 
cheaper and less popular portions to produce appetizing and wholesome 
results. 

There are also helpful ideas for arranging the kitchen, for testing tem- 
perature, suggestions for church suppers, picnics, and the ever-yawning 
school lunch box. 

There are condensed directions for serving meals both with and without 
a maid, a list of household utensils used in the practical kitchen and an outline 
for a household budget which enables the housewife to regulate household 
expenses. 

The distributing and spending of the family income is largely in the hands 
of the housewife; the responsibility for the health and well-being of the family 
is hers also, and we believe she will welcome what help it is within our power 
to give on these subjects. In this connection the questions of pure foods and 
Government Meat Inspection are of great importance. Arm6ur and Company 
believe in making all food products so that grade as well as purity is guaranteed 
by the label. Armour meats are prepared under strict Government Inspection 
and under conditions of sanitation approved of by the Federal Inspectors. 
It is obvious that meats so prepared are the kind the careful housewife 
should buy. 

In the compiling of this book our Domestic Science staff has had the 
valuable assistance of several food authorities of national reputation. 



1 ^ 



ARMOUR^COMPANY 



SELECTIVE MENUS 

■f Beginning on page 4 are selective menus, arranged for 

' v^ breakfast, luncheon, and dinner. To form a reasonably balanced 

I \ meal, select one article from each "group" contained in the meal. 

I ^ Breakfast, for instance, has five groups, the fruit, the cereal, the 

» ^ bread, the main dish, and the beverage. 

' Suggestions as to Selecting Breakfast Dishes 

^-^^ (1) Cereals, as oatmeal and corn meal, with considerable fat in composition, 
^ OJi are better adapted to cold than to hot weather. Also, to eat with them, 
• c^" select such foods as are deficient in fat ; i. e., choose rice, wheat or barley 
}■ cereals to eat with bacon, ham, sausage, chops or steak, and select oat- 

meal and corn meal when fish or eggs are the main dish of the breakfast. 
Either of these cereals eaten with cream or evaporated milk and some 
form of bread with butter and a sweet fruit, as bananas, dates and figs, 
furnish a satisfactory meal without other additions. 

(2) With bacon, ham, sausage, chops (lamb or pork), the cereal may be omit- 
ted and an acid fruit, cooked or uncooked, be provided. Potatoes are not 
a necessity if bread be supplied, but are a welcome addition to meat. 

(3) The beverage for breakfast is a matter of taste, though cocoa, milk, grape 
juice or water are the drinks most suitable for children. 

Points on Selecting DisheS for Dinner 

(1) A soup for dinner should be light in character, as consomme, broth, or 
bouillon, that the appetite be stimulated rather than satisfied. If the main 
dish at dinner be roast beef, let the flavor of some other meat than beef 
be predominant in the soup. 

(2) With a meat or fish dish serve one underground vegetable, as potatoes, tur- 
nips, beets, and one vegetable grown aboveground, as lettuce, cabbage, celery. 

(3) If the green vegetable is served as a salad, the simple French dressing of 
oil, acid, salt and pepper is preferable to a rich mayonnaise or a cooked 
dressing. Reserve these latter dressings for luncheon and supper when 
the salad serves as the main dish of the meal. 

(4) The acid in apples and pineapples aids in the digestion of bacon, ham, pork 
chops and roast pork ; cranberry sauce or fruit jellies harmonize with dishes 
of poultry, while mint sauce or apple mint jelly is appropriate with lamb, 
especially when roasted. The acid of lemon is appetizing with fish and 
shell fish and the flavor of tomatoes is almost equally desirable with any 
dish of meat, fish, heaps or paste ( macaroni, noodles). 

(5) Canned fruit, fruit cup, grape juice in gelatine dishes or with tapioca, grape 
juice sherbet and similar sweet dishes are appropriate after boiled, broiled 
or roasted meats, while mince pie or strawberry shortcake enriches a dinner 
in which fish, eggs or some left-over material is the main dish. 

Hints on Combinations for Supper or Luncheon 

(1) While any soup is a welcome prelude to supper or luncheon, these meals 
offer a most favorable opportunity for presenting mock turtle soup, oxtail 
soup, pea and bean soups, chowders and stews. Any one of these dishes 
is hearty enough to warrant its service as the main dish of the meal. 

(2) A lighter soup may be followed with baked beans and pork, cold meat, 
eggs in any one of a great variety of ways, fish in salad or crejuned on 
toast, or cooked vegetables in jellied beef extract. 

(3) Canned fruits and fruit dishes make less nutritious desserts than do mince 
pie, cake and custards; keep this in mind when making choice of the des- 
sert dish. If necessary let the dessert make up for any shortcomings in 
the earlier part of the meal. 



SELECTIVE MENUS 
BREAKFAST 



Fruit Group 

Providing Mainly Mineral Salts or 
Bone-Building Material 

Apple Sauce Apples, Fresh 

Apples, Baked, with Cream or 

Evaporated Milk* 
Apples, Coddled, with Cream or 

Evaporated Milk* 
Bananas, Fresh 
Bananas, Saut6ed or Fried 
Berries, Fresh in Season, with 

Evaporated Milk* (Whipped) 
Berries,* Canned (56) 
Cherries, Fresh 
Cherries,* Canned 
Dates with Cereal 
Figs with Cereal 
Fruit Juices,* Grape Juice 
Grapefruit with Grape Juice* (39) 
Jams* (56) Jellies* (56) 

Melons Marmalade 

Oranges 

Pineapple, Fresh 
Pineapple,* Canned, Hawaiian 
Peaches, Fresh 
Peaches,* Canned 

PArs, Fresh Pears,* Canned 

Prunes, Stewed Tangerines 

Cereal Group 
Providing Carbohydrates 

Corn Flakes with Cream 

Corn Meal Mush with Cream 

Cracked Wheat with Cream 

Hominy* with Cream 

Rice with Cream 

Rolled White Oats* with Cream 

Shredded Wheat with Cream 

Armour's Veribest Evaporated Milk 
is excellent to use in place of cream, 
or it can be diluted to the consistency 
of ordinary milk. 

Bread Group 

Supplies Carbohydrates or Heat 

and Energy 

Biscuits, Hot, Baking Powder (22) 

Biscuits, Raised 

Bread, Graham Bread, Bran 



Bread, White Bread, Rye 

Coffee Cake 

Com Cake (24) 

Com Cake, Hunter's (36) 

Doughnuts (22) 

Griddle Cakes, Buckwheat, with Maple 

Syrup 
Griddle Cakes, Rice, with Maple Syrup 
Griddle Cakes, Corn Meal, with Maple 
. Syrup 

Griddle Cakes, Canned Corn (36) 
Griddle Cakes, Wheat, withFruitSyrup 
Gems, Graham 
Mush, Fried, Corn Meal 
Muffins, Corn Meal 
Muffins, Graham (24) 
Muffins, Whole-Wheat 
Muffins, Bran 
Pop-Overs, Graham 
Rolls, Coffee Rolls, French 

Rolls, Quick Yeast 

Rolls, Toasted Rolls, Vienna 

Toast, White Bread (35) 
Toast, French, Cream or Milk 
Zwieback 

Main Dish 

Supplies Protein 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Apple Fritters 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Fried Hominy 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Creamed Pota- 
toes 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Fried Apples 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Mashed Pota- 
toes 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Pineapple Frit- 
ters 

Bacon,* Broiled, with Sweet Potatoes 

Bacon,* and Eggs* (11) 

Bacon,* with Liver 

Beef,* Brisket, Sliced, Sauteed 

Beefsteak, Broiled, Baked Potatoes 
(45) 

Chops, Pork, Mashed Potatoes 

Chops, Lamb ( Broiled ) , Fried Potatoes 

Codfish, Creamed 

Corned Beef,* Hash, Browned 

Dried Beef,* in Cream 

Eggs, Boiled 

Eggs, Stuffed with Devonshire Farm 
Sausage (47) 



*This star indicates an Armour Quality Product. 

Numbers after articles indicate the page on which appears a recipe, or other 
information regarding same. ( For a complete list of foods to make any recipe 
or dish in the book see pages 56 and 57.) 

4 



SELECTIVE MENUS 
BREAKFAST— Continued 



Finnan Haddie, Creamed 

Ham,* Broiled or Fried 

Ham,* Boiled, Sliced and Sauteed 

Ham,* Boiled, with Eggs 

Ham Sandwiches, Hot 

Kidneys, Broiled 

Liver, Calves', with Bacon* 

Luncheon Tongue,* Cold, with Brown 

Hashed Potatoes 
Mackerel, Salt 
Omelet, French 
Omelet, Dried Beef 
Omelet, Plain 
Omelet, Spanish (37) 



Sausage, Devonshire Farm, with 

Griddle Cakes (48) 
Sausage, Meat, Devonshire Farm, 

with Rice Cakes (47) 
Sausage, Devonshire Farm, Fried 

Apples (47) 

Beverage Group 

Coffee, with Evaporated Milk* 
Coffee, Cereal Cocoa 

Grape Juice* Milk 

Milk, Malted 
Tea, Breakfast 



LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 



Main Dish 

Baked Beans,* Pork and Beans, 
with Tomato Sauce (15) 

Beef Loaf,* with Ketchup 

Beef Tongue,* with Spinach 

Chicken,* Boned 

Chicken,* Deviled 

Chicken Loaf * 

Chicken,* Potted 

Chicken, on Toast 

Corned Beef,* Sliced Cold 

Corned Beef,* Creamed au Gratin 
(17) 

Cheese,* Melted on Toast 

Eggs,* Poached on Toast 

Eggs au Gratin Egg Salad (36) 

Frankfurters,* with Potato Salad (48) 

German Salami Sausage,* Sliced 

Ham,* Boiled, Served Cold, with Po- 
tato Salad, Tomato Salad, Green 
Vegetable Salad or Macedoine of 
Vegetable Salad 

Ham,* Hot Baked, with Celery 
and Apple Salad, Pineapple Salad, 
Orange Salad, Cabbage Salad, Cole- 
slaw, or with Cider, Champagne, To- 
mato, Brown, or Currant Jelly 
Sauce (8) 

Ham,* Hot Boiled, with Boiled 
Cabbage, Cauliflower, Brussels 
Sprouts, Spinach, Chard, Dande- 
lions, Beets, Greens, or Kale (9) 

Ham Loaf,* Sliced, with Mustard 



Heart, Stuffed, Baked 

Lamb Stew (Flank End of Chops) 

Lambs' Tongues, Mint Sauce 

Luncheon Beef,* Garnished with 
Olives and Cucumbers 

Luncheon Beef,* Stew 

Luncheon Meat * 

Luncheon Meat,* Country Style 

Luncheon Meat,* New England Style 

Luncheon Meat,* New Orleans 

Luncheon Meat,* Pressed 

Meat Loaf,* Cold (50) 

Meat Loaf,* Sliced Cold (15) 

Meat Loaf,* Heated with Brown 
Sauce, Horse-Radish Sauce or To- 
mato Sauce 

Peanut Biscuit (31) 

Salmon,* Creamed on Toast 

Salmon Salad* (18) 

Salmon,* Escalloped in Green Peppers 

Sardines * 

Sausage,* Lackschinken 

Sausage, Devonshire Farm (47) 

Sausage,* Dry ( 43 ) 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 

Tongue,* Lunch, Pork 

Tripe 

Turkey,* Boned 

Tuna Fish * 

Sandwiches 

Beef,* Deviled, Horse Radish Sauce 
Chicken,* Potted or Deviled 



*This star indicates an Armour Quality Product. 

Numbers after articles indicate the page on which appears a recipe, or other 
information regarding same. ( For a complete list of foods to make any recipe 
or dish in the book see pages 56 and 57.) 

5 



SELECTIVE MENUS 
LUNCHEON OR SUPPER— Continued 



Ham/ Cold Boiled, 12 styles (9) 
Ham,* Deviled 
Meat Loaf,* Special 
Pork and Beef,* Potted 
Tongue,* Deviled or Potted 
Turkey,* Potted 

Vegetable Group 

Asparagus Salad 

Beans, Fresh String 

Beans, Canned String 

Beets, Buttered Beets, Pickled 

Cabbage, Boiled, Buttered 

Carrots, Creamed 

Celery, Stuffed with Cheese * 

Cauliflower Celery 

Com,* au Gratin, Creamed (17) 

Cranberry Sauce 

Cucumbers, Sliced 

Eggplant 

French Endive, Green and Red Pepper 

Rings with French Dressing 
Hominy,* with Tomato Pur6e 
Lettuce-and-Tomato Jelly 
Lettuce, with French Dressing 
Lettuce, with Mayonnaise Dressing 
Onions Peas* 

Potatoes, Boiled Potatoes, Creamed 
Potatoes, Mashed 

Potatoes au Gratin Potatoes, Riced 
Romaine, with Beef Extract Gelatine 

Cubes 
Slaw, Cole Saratoga Chips 

Spinach, Cold, French Dressing 
Spinach, Hot Squash Succotash 
Sweet Potatoes, Baked 
Tomatoes,* Scalloped (36) 
Tomatoes, Sliced, with Beef Extract 

Jelly 
Tomatoes,* Stewed 
Turnips 

Bread Group 

Biscuits, Baking Powder ( 22 ) 

Biscuits, Yeast Bread Sticks 

Biscuits, Raisin Drop (27) 

Bran Bread Com Meal Muffins 

Toast, Buttered ( 35 ) 

Cookies (24) 



Crackers, Toasted, with Cheese 

Doughnuts (22) Graham Muffins (24) 

Fruit Bread 

Gingerbread (24) Imperial Sticks 

Molasses Cookies, Soft (25) 

Nut-and-Raisin Bread (25) 

Nut Bread Parker House Rolls 

Roman Meal Rye Bread 

Salt Raising Bread 

Dessert Group 

Apple, Baked, with Evaporated 

Milk,* Whipped 
Apple Turnover Apple Pie 

Caramel Custard, Baked ( 17) 
Chocolate Layer Cake (30) 
Cocoa Cake (30) 
Cocoa Nut Bars (27) 
Cornstarch Blancmange 
Crackers and Cheese 
Custard, Cup-Baked 
Fruit Ice Cream, with Canned Fruits * 
Gingersnaps (27) 
Grandmother's Cookies (27) 
Grape Juice,* Parfait (40) 
Grape Juice,* Pudding (40) 
Grape Juice,* Sherbet (38) 
Grape Juice,* Sponge (40) 
Ice Cream, Made with Evaporated 

Milk* 
Mince Pie, Mince Meat* 
Molasses Gems (31) 
Peaches,* with Drop Cakes 
Peaches,* with Marshmallow Topping 

(41) 
Peach Shortcake (25) 
Pineapple,* Hawaiian 
Strawberry Shortcake (28) 
White Cake, Mocha Frosting 

Beverage Group 

Cocoa Coffee Milk 

Malted Milk Tea, Hot, Plam 

Tea, Iced, with Lemon 
Grape Juice * Lemonade (39) 
Grape Juice * High Ball (38) 
Grape Juice,* Plain (38) 
Russian Tea 
Grape Juice, with Ginger Ale 



*This star indicates an Armour Quality Product. 

Numbers after articles indicate the page on which appears a recipe, or other 
information regarding same. (For a complete list of foods to make any recipe 
or dish in the book see pages 56 and 57.) 

6 



SELECTIVE MENUS 



DINNER 



Soup Group 



Bean Soup, Crackers 

Beef Broth, Crackers 

Bouillon, Beef,* Crackers 

Bouillon, Chicken,* Crackers 

Bouillon, Clam,* Chowder Crackers 

Chicken Soup,* with Crackers 

Clam Chowder, Chowder Crackers 

Consomme,* with Crackers 

Lamb Broth, Crackers 

Mock Turtle Soup,* with Crackers 

Oyster Stew, Oyster Crackers 

Oxtail Soup,* with Crackers 

Pea Soup, Crackers 

Plain Consomme, with Cheese 
Crackers 

Plain Consomme, with Oyster Cocktail 
Sauce 

Plain Consomme, with Summer Sau- 
sage, Crackers 

Plain Consomme, with Tomato Puree, 
Crackers 

Plain Consomm6, with Vegetables, 
Crackers 

Tomato Soup,* with Crackers 

Vegetable Soup,* with Crackers 

Main Dish 

Beef, Chuck Roast 

Beef Tongue and Spinach (18) 

Brisket Beef,* Breaded (19) 

Chicken Croquettes and Peas* (23) 

Chicken, Roast, Garnished with 
Bacon* (11) Chicken Timbales 

Corned Beef au Gratin, Creamed (17) 

Eggs in Ramequins (37) 

Eggs, Stuffed, White Sauce (37) 

Ham,* Baked (9) 

Ham,* Boiled, Served Hot (9) 

Ham,* Broiled (9) 

Lamb, Roast Leg 

Lamb Chops, Broiled 

Luncheon Beef and Macaroni, Toma- 
to Sauce (19) 

Luncheon Beef Stew (19) 

Macaroni and Cheese (37) 

Meat Loaf,* with Brown Gravy (15) 

Pork cmd Beans,* with Tomato Sauce 
(15) 

Ribs of Beef, Roast (45) 

Salmon,* Creamed 



Salmon, Hot, with Egg Sauce (19) 
Sausage, Devonshire Farm, Rolls 
Sea Bass, Broiled 
Sirloin Steak, Broiled (45) 

Vegetable Group 

More than One Vegetable May 
Be Desired 

Asparagus, Melted Butter 

Beans, Butter Beans, String 

Beans, Wax Beets, Buttered 

Carrots, Buttered 

Cauliflower, Croutons of (29) Celery 

Corn,* Stewed 

Eggplant Fritters Kale, Scotch 

Hominy Fritters 

Onions, Boiled Peas,* Stewed 

Peppers, Stuffed Potatoes, Boiled 

Potatoes, Baked Potatoes, Creamed 

Potatoes, French Fried (25) 

Potatoes, Mashed Rice, Boiled 

Spinach Squash, Summer 

Succotash Sweet Potatoes, Baked 

Sweet Potatoes, Boiled 

Tomatoes, Stewed* 

Tomatoes, Sauteed (25) 

Salad Group — Including Sauces 

Apple and Celery Salad Apple Sauce 

Cranberry Sauce 

French Endive, Thousand Island, 

or Russian Dressing 
Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 
Pineapple,* Ring (41) 
Salmon,* Salad (18) Romaine 

Tuna Fish Salad ( 17) Waldorf Salad 

Dessert Group 

Cake, Nut Loaf (31) 

Cake, White (24) Cake. Spice (24) 

Chocolate Layer Cake (30) 

Grape Juice,* Sherbet (39) 

Marshmallow Peaches (41) 

Mince Pie (23) 

Peaches,* Canned, with Cream 

Pineapple,* Hawaiian, Sliced 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Beverage Group 

Black Coffee Grape Juice* 

Milk Grape Juice Lemonade 

Russian Tea 



*This star indicates an Armour Quality Product. 

Numbers after articles indicate the page on which appears a recipe, or other 
information regarding same. (For a complete list of foods to make any recipe 
or dish in the book see pages 56 and 57.) 




Armour's Star Ham and Bacon 

Ham and bacon are among the most popular of meats. They can be 
served in a great variety of ways. Armour's Star Ham and Bacon are standard 
staples of food production. 

The excellence of the Star brand is first assured by careful selection. 
Only hams of highest grade can bear the brand of Star. 

The Star cure is a tradition in the Armour establishment, developed and 
improved by years of experience. 
When it seemed impossible further to 
improve either choice or flavor of Star 
Ham, experiments were conducted 
which led to the adoption of the Stock- 
inet Covering. This cleanly knit pro- 
tector is put on the ham before smoking 
over the hickory-fed fires; as a result, 
juices are better retained, flavor is in- 
tensified, and the ham reaches the con- 
sumer still protected by the Stockinet 
Covering. Many women practice econ- 
omy by buying a whole Star Ham to 
slice and cook as occasion justifies. 

Star Bacon is of the same high 
quality as Star Ham — selected with the same care and perfected by the famous 
Armour cure. In strips of well-proportioned fat and lean it slices easily and 
comes from the pan tender, tasty and delicious. 

We also offer this bacon under the brand of Veribest. For this product 
the strips are cut in thin, even slices and daintily packed in handy cartons 
and glass jars. This convenient way of marketing a most appetizing and 
nourishing food is appreciated by the progressive housewife. 

The high food value of bacon 
and the fact that it is easily digested 
by all should be considered when 
planning menus for young and old. 

What to Serve with 

Star Ham 

Method: Serve hot boiled 
Star Ham with boiled cabbage, 
cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, spin- 
ach, chard, dandelions, beet greens 
or kale. Dress the first three with 
butter, cream or hollandaise sauce. Scalloped tomatoes, scalloped cabbage, 
scalloped potatoes either white or sweet, apple sauce or spiced pickled fruit of 
any kind are also appropriate with Star Ham. Armour's Horse-Radish Mustard 
adds to the zest of every ham dish. 

Method: Serve hot baked Star Ham with any of the vegetables or 
relishes suggested for hot boiled ham, also with celery and apple, pineapple, 
or orange salad, with cabbage salad (all with French dressing), coleslaw, or 
with cider, champagne, tomato, brown or currant jelly sauce. 

Method: Serve cold boiled or baked Star Ham with potato salad, to- 
mato salad, tomato jelly salad, green vegetable salad, mac6doine of vegetable 
salad. 

Method: Serve broiled Star Ham or Bacon, with baked or fried bana- 
nas, apple or pineapple fritters, fried apples, and creamed or mashed potatoes. 

8 




Foundation Recipes 

Boiled Skinned Star Ham 

Method: Wash the ham or wipe with a damp cloth as is needed. Set to 
cook in cold water to cover; heat to the boiling point, let boil ten minutes, 
then simmer until tender, turning the ham after cooking three hours. It will 
take six hours or longer to cook a ham weighing about twelve pounds. If 
the ham is not too tender, let partly cool in the water; if cooked so that the 
shank bone slips out easily, remove at once from the water. If the ham be 
overcooked it cannot be cut in thin, smooth slices. 

Baked Star Ham 

Method : Start the ham as for boiled ham ; after cooking four hours re- 
move the ham from the water, cut the skin in points about five inches from 
where it meets the shank bone, retain the skin around the bone and remove 
the rest. Mix a cupful of the cooking liquid with a cupful of cider or half a 
cupful of cider vinegar and pour over the ham set in a baking pan ; let cook 
two hours in a moderate oven, basting often with the liquid in the pan. Re- 
move from the oven and insert cloves in the fat of the ham from which the 
skin has been taken ; press these into the ham in a symmetrical manner. Mix 
half a cupful of brown sugar with half a teaspoonful of pepper and half a 
cupful of fine cracker crumbs and sprinkle over the portion containing the 
cloves; return the ham to the oven for one hour. 

Broiled Star Ham 
Method: Cut very thin slices from the center of a Star Ham (trim off 
the skin), cover with boiling water and let stand on the back of the range, 
where the water will not boil, ten minutes, then dry on a cloth. Have ready 
a hot, well-oiled broiler; set the ham in place and let cook over clear coals or 
under a gas burner until well browned, here and there. Serve on a hot plate. 
Thicker slices of cold boiled or baked Star Ham may be broiled over the coals 
until the fat is delicately colored. 

Ham Sandwiches 

White bread, lettuce hearts, mayonnaise dressing 
White bread, mayonnaise dressing 
Rye bread, butter and currant jelly 
Whole-wheat bread, butter and chopped cress 
Slices Baking powder biscuit, sauce tartare 

Boiled Boston brown bread, butter and chopped olives 

Star -{ White bread, butter and mustard 
Ham White bread, butter and chopped mustard leaves 

with Whole-wheat bread, butter and sliced or chopped 

mustard pickles 
Whole- wheat bread, butter and piccalilli 
Graham bread, butter and currant jelly 
English muffins, hollandaise sauce 
Method : Bread for sandwiches is at its best after having been 
baked twenty-four to thirty-six hours. The slices should be cut 
less than one-fourth of an inch in thickness. Cut or trim into the 
desired shape, then spread with butter and such other materials as 
are to be used, taking care that nothing is brought to the edge of 
the bread to soil the hands in eating. The ham should be cut in 
slices of uniform thickness and some fat should be retained. 

Mayonnaise and sauce tartare (mayonnaise to which fine-chop- 
ped olives, capers, pickles, onion and parsley are added) make a 
particularly well-flavored ham sandwich. Use mustard in both 
dressings. Hollandaise sauce is an emulsion of egg yolks and butter, 
made acid with lemon juice prepared by cooking over hot water. 




Baked Star Ham 

Method: (See directions on page 9.) It is an economical 
consideration to buy a whole ham, and is a convenient form of 
nutritive meat to have in the house in preparation of impromptu 
luncheons. Either baked or boiled Star Ham is appetizing in 
many different forms, especially as a part of the ever popular sand- 
wich. 




Boiled Star Ham, Boneless 

Method: Purchase a whole Armour's Star Boiled Ham. 
This product is of the highest quality, perfectly boiled. It has 
been boned, and is ready to eat. Note the methods of use on 
pages 8 and 9. It is economical to buy a whole ham. 



10 




flour 

Armour's Veribest Bacon 



Roast Chicken Garnished with Bacon 

chicken 
salt, pepper 

Method: Dress, clean, stuff and truss the chicken; then 
sprinkle well with salt and pepper; place on a rack in a dripping 
pan to which add enough hot water to prevent burning. 

Arrange strips of Veribest Bacon across the chicken breast. 
Place in a hot oven for the first fifteen minutes; reduce the tem- 
perature, baste and turn each fifteen minutes until the chicken is 
tender. Allow twenty minutes to the pound for roasting. The 
more tender the chicken, the shorter time required for cooking. 




Bacon and Eggs 

Method: Put a frying pan over the fire and at once lay in 
slices of Veribest or Star Bacon. Let cook slowly until the fat is 
well tried out and the bacon of an amber color on one side, then 
turn to crisp and color the other side. Drain the bacon on soft 
paper, keeping it warm meanwhile. Break fresh laid eggs into the 
bacon fat which should not he allowed to become too hot. 

Baste the yolks with the fat, and as soon as the white is "set" 
press a spatula between each egg and the pan to avoid over- 
cooking. Remove the cooked eggs to a warm dish; set the bacon 
around them ; garnish with parsley. Cooked at the proper temper- 
ature, eggs fried in bacon fat have the appearance of poached eggs. 



11 



Preparing an Informal Luncheon 

Each of the four columns is a complete menu. The first 
and fourth are more elaborate than the others. Groupings 
across show similar articles which may be exchanged. 



II 



III 



IV 



Veribest Mock 
Turtle Soup 
Soup Sticks 

Celery, Onions, 
Salted Nuts 



Veribest Consomme Veribest Tomato Veribest Vegetable 
Croutons of Veribest Soup Soup 

Deviled Ham 



Imperial Sticks 



Veribest Luncheon Veribest Chicken 
Beef, Sliced, Loaf 

With Veribest 
Chili Sauce 



Creamed Veribest 
Com au Gratin 



Veribest Tuna 
Fish Salad 



Scalloped Veribest 
Tomatoes 



Lettuce & Veribest 
Salmon Salad 



Toast Fingers Salted Wafers 



Veribest 
Corned Beef, 
Creamed, au 
Gratin 



Veribest Salmon 

Croquettes 
Veribest Boned 
Turkey, Sliced Thin 

Veribest Canned 

Peas, 
Mashed Potatoes, 
Cranberry Sauce 

Lettuce 
French Dressing 



Baked Apple 

with Veribest 
Evaporated Milk 



Baked Caramel 
Custard 



Coffee, Coffee, 

Veribest Veribest 

Evaporated Milk Evaporated Milk 

(Recipes indexed on pages 59 and 60) 



Com Starch 
Blancmange 

Veribest Canned 
Peaches 



Toasted Crackers 



Coffee, Coffee, 

Veribest Veribest 

Evaporated Milk Evaporated Milk 



Easily Prepared Church Suppers 



Hot Canned Veribest Salmon, Egg Sauce 

Plain Boiled Potatoes 

Homemade Pickles 

Yeast RoUs (reheated) 

Veribest Ox Tongue, Sliced Thin 

Veribest Ham Loaf, Sliced Thin 

Macaroni in Tomato Sauce 

Homemade Pies 

Veribest Cheese 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 



II 



Veribest Chicken Soup 

Veribest Pork and Beans, Tomato Sauce 

Veribest Corned Beef, Sliced Thin 

. Veribest Lunch Tongue, Sliced Thin 

Potato Salad 

Graham, White and Rye Bread 

Doughnuts Veribest Cheese 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 

(Recipes indexed on pages 59 and 60) 



III 

Veribest Tomato Soup 

Veribest Brisket Beef, Sliced Thin, Chili Sauce 

Creamed Potatoes 

(Veribest Evaporated Milk) 

Com Bread 

White Bread 

Veribest Tuna Fish Salad 

Veribest Canned Peaches, Frozen 

Homemade Cake 

IV 

Veribest Luncheon Beef, Sliced Thin 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Veribest Salmon Salad 

Parker House Rolls 

(reheated) 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Homemade Cake 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 



12 




Armour's Veribest Package Foods 
The convenience of ready-cooked foods to be served cold, or with a few 
minutes heating, is appreciated by all housekeepers. Veribest Package Foods 
are prepared by expert Armour chefs in Armour's sanitary kitchens and include 
many delicacies difficult and expensive to prepare in the home. They are not 
only time-savers, but add variety to the menu. The housewife with a shelf 
of Armour's Veribest Foods is protected against any emergency. The Veribest 
Foods sold under the Oval Label include so wide a choice that almost the en- 
tire menu, day after day, can be satisfactorily arranged from them. 

The uniform high standard of all these products, whether vegetable, fruit, 
meat, or fish, begins in the initial step of their preparation, — that is, in the 
selection. In the meat products, only choice portions of the highest grade 
meats are chosen. Fresh meat shrinks some fifty per cent in cooking. Ar- 
mour's Veribest Meats are therefore all food, without waste, and the Armour 
methods of preparing emd canning preserve all the original juices and fine 
flavor. 

On pages 56-57 of this book will be found a complete list of Veribest 
Package Foods and on the following pages are many appetizing and novel 
methods of serving these. 

The Quality Oval Label 

Armour and Company, believing that public interest demands that the quality 
of a food product shall be as strictly guaranteed as its purity, have adopted this 
Quality Oval Label, a trade-mark that is as well a grade- mark, guaranteeing both 
food excellence and purity. This Label is the designating mark of the top grade in 
each line of Armour foods. When you see the Oval Sign on a dealer's store 
front, you know Armour's 
Quality Oval Label Goods are 
on his shelves. If you cannot 
obtain all Armour Oval Label 
Products, write to Armour 
and Company, Chicago, giving 
your dealer's name and ad- 
dress. 




Easily Prepared Lunches for Campers 



Veribest Oxtail Soup 

Veribest Pork and Beans 

Veribest Corned Beef, Sliced Thin 

Hot Biscuit 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 

II 

Chowder of Veribest Canned Com 

Veribest Corned Beef Hash, Veribest 

Ketchup 

Veribest Lambs' Tongues, Sliced 

Hunter's Com Cake 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 

III 

Veribest Chicken Soup 

Veribest Dried Beef, Frizzled 

Veribest Luncheon Meat, Sliced Thin 

Veribest Canned Com Griddle Cakes 

Potatoes Baked in Hot Ashes 
Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 
(Recipes indexed on pages 59 and 60) 



IV 

Veribest Vegetable Soup 
Veribest Brisket Beef, Breaded and Fried 

Veribest Pork and Beans 

Veribest Tomatoes Stewed with Cracker 

Crumbs 

Doughnuts Veribest Cheese 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 

V 

Veribest Tomato Soup 

Veribest Hot Salmon, Pickle Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Veribest Canned Peas 

Creamed Veribest Dried Beef 

Com Bread Gingerbread 

Veribest Cheese 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 

VI 

Stew of Veribest Luncheon Beef, Onions 

and Peas 

Veribest Pork and Beans 

Boston Brown Bread 

Veribest Peanut Butter 

Dried Apple Dumpling 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 



Easily Prepared Lunches for Auto Parties 



Veribest Deviled Ham Sandwiches 

Veribest Peanut-Butter Sandwiches ■ 

Veribest Veal Loaf, Sliced Thin 

Buttered Rolls 

Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk in 

Thermos Bottle 

Fresh Fruit 

II 

Veribest Potted Turkey Sandwiches 

Veribest Sardines Wrapped in Parchment 

Paper 

Baking Powder Biscuit, Buttered 

Hot Veribest Cocoa in Thermos Bottle 



Chicken Salad (Veribest Boned Chicken) 

in Yeast Rolls (cases) 

Sandwiches of Bread, Veribest Corned Beef 

and Veribest Chili Sauce 

Olives 

Hot Coffee with Veribest Evaporated Milk 

in Thermos Bottle 

VI 

Veribest Tuna Fish Salad ( in jiaper cups) 

Boiled Veribest Eggs Stuffed with Veribest 

Deviled Ham 

Graham Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 

Olives 

Veribest Peanut-Butter Fudge 



III 

Veribest Dried Beef Sandwiches 

Veribest Lunch Tongue, Shced Thin 

Yeast Rolls, Buttered 

Olives 

Hot Tea in Thermos Bottle 

IV 

Veribest Sardine-and-Egg Sandwiches 

Veribest Chicken Loaf, Shced Thin 

Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 

Pickles 

Veribest Grape Juice Lemonade (Thermos 

Bottle) 

(Recipes indexed on pages 59 and 60) 

When putting up lunch to be eaten in a car or by the wayside, care should be taken to so wrap 
each item of food that the fingers be not soiled therewith. Appropriate (not lettuce) salads 
disposed in individual cups may be carried with ease. Forks should be sent along with the 
salad. Little cakes or sandwiches, each wrapped separately in parchment paper, may be 
eaten from the paper without coming in contact with the fingers. In making sandwiches, 
remove or retain the crusts of bread according to preference, but let the slices be of uniform 
thickness throughout. Several thin slices of meat are preferable to one thick slice. Any 
salad dressing, save French dressing, may be used in place of butter. Butter should be beaten 
to a cream and variety may be secured by gradually creaming into it, chili sauce, tomato 
ketchup, mustard, horse-radish or chopped capers. By removing a thin piece from the top of 
a yeast roll and taking out the crumb a good receptable to carry a salad made of celery and 
chicken or veal loaf is presented. The top of the roll, pressed back in place, protects both 
salad and fingers. 



VII 

Veribest Cold Lcimbs' Tongue, Sliced 

Mint Jelly 

Baking Powder Biscuit, Buttered 

Custard Baked in Cups 

Veribest Evaporated Milk 

Hot Veribest Cocoa in Thermos Bottle 

VIII 

Mayonnaise of Veribest Sardines Hard- 
Cooked Veribest Eggs and 
Celery Hearts 
Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 
Veribest Peanut-Butter Rolls 
Iced Tea in Thermos Bottle 



14 




Veribest Pork and Beans, Tomato Sauce 



can Veribest Pork and Beans, 
Tomato Sauce 



celery tips 
tomatoes 



Method : Place can in hot water for twenty minutes. Follow 
directions on top of can in opening. Serve with slices of tomato, 
and garnish with celery tips. 

Instead of heating the beans in the unopened can, they may be 
removed and heated in a saucepan over the fire, or in a chafing dish. 





Meat Loaf with Brown Sauce 

Method: Arrange slices of canned meat loaf with sliced 
tomatoes and cucumbers. Serve hot with brown sauce. 

BroTvn Sauce 

4 tablespoonfuls Oleomargarine speck pepper 
4 tablespoonfuls flour 2 cupfuls hot water 

% teaspoonful salt 2 to 3 teaspoonfuls Armour's 

Extract of Beef 

Method: Melt the fat, add flour and seasonings and brown 
together. Mix beef extract and hot water, and add this to the 
first mixture gradually, stirring until well mixed and smooth. 
Q)ok until thickened and warm meat in this. 



15 



Office Workers' Lunches 



Hot Consomme in Thermos Bottle 

Celery and Boned Turkey Salad (in cup) 

Thin Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 

Olives 

Cup of Baked Custard 

(evaporated milk) 

Two Cookies 

Banana 

11 

Sliced Beef Tongue 

Cold Spinach, Sauce Tartare (in cup) 

Yeast Rolls, Buttered 

Two Baked Apples 

Chocolate Cake 

Tea in Thermos Bottle 

Grapes 



III 

Sliced Brisket Beef 

Mac^doine of Vegetables in Salad (in cup) 

Graham Bread and 

Mustard-Butter Sandwiches 

Doughnuts Cheese 

Jar of Ccinned Fruit 

Hot Coffee in Thermos Bottle 

IV 

Cold Ham Timbale, Salad Dressing 

Rye Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 

Olives Celery 

Bread— Peanut-Butter and 

Currant Jelly Sandwiches 

Hot Coffee in Thermos Bottle 

(evaporated milk) 

Stewed Figs (in cup) 



Before the work of digestion can be fairly begun, the food in the stomach 
must be at a certain temperature. If only cold food be offered the stomach, it 
will rob the body of its natureil heat to supply its needs. Cold depresses the 
flow of saliva, while warm food tends to increase such flow. This points to the 
advisability of including at least one warm dish in any meal. 

Where heating appliances, as a gas range, are available in an office, the 
heating of a can of soup offers am easy way of introducing a hot dish into the 
meal. A cup of hot bouillon is made by dissolving an Armour Bouillon Cube 
in hot water. It is a splendid mid-morning drink for the office worker and 
more healthful than tea or coffee for luncheon. When a gas range is not 
possible the thermos bottle may be used for hot coffee, tea, cocoa or consomm6. 
Coffee, tea and cocoa, and especially the coffee and cocoa, may be improved 
and made more nutritious by the addition of evaporated milk. 

Lunches for High School Pupils 



Hot Canned Consommd in Thermos Bottle 

Mayonnaise with Canned Salmon and Peas 

Thin Bread-and-Butter Sandwiches 

Apple Turnover 

Cream Cheese 

Stewed Figs 

II 
Veal Loaf, Sliced 
Rye-Meal Muffins, Split and Buttered 
Pickled Beets (sliced in cup) 
Bread-and-Butter and Peanut-Butter Sand- 
wiches 
Choice Stewed Prunes 
(in cup) 
Hot Cocoa in Thermos Bottle 



in 

Hot Tomato Soup in Thermos Bottle 

Eggs Scrambled with Potted Ham 

(in cup) 

Whole- Wheat Bread-and-Butter Szindwiches 

Celery Hearts 

Cornstarch Blancmange with Soft Custard 

(in cup) 

Banana 

IV 

Hot Chicken Soup in Thermos Bottle 

Brisket Beef Sandwiches 

Olives Celery Hearts 

Chocolate Cake Shelled Nuts 

Baked Apples 

(in cup) 

Children of high school age need foods in variety and such as abound in 
flavor. At this time of life growth is rapid and the quantity of food eaten, 
especially of food that is rich in protein (meat, fish, eggs, milk, etc.), should 
be abundant. While plenty of meat may well form a part of each lunch, care 
should be taken to present it in an appetizing form. Let the meat be sliced thin 
and the number of slices not be subject to count. You may send the same 
materials in one samdwich or in five, but 'the five will be eaten with relish 
while the one may be brought back home, half eaten. 

Keep each variety of food distinct from all others. The same thermos 
bottle will not answer alternately for soup and beverage. Two bottles are 
needed, and after being washed at night should be left open in the fresh air 
imtil again needed. 

Be sure to vjiry the kind of bread often. 

Crisp lettuce and celery, carefully washed and dried, may be so wrapped 
in parchment paper that the air is excluded and the vegetables kept in an 
edible condition. Lettuce should not be used in sandwiches unless they are 
to be eaten as soon as made, for wilted lettuce is most indigestible. 

16 



Delicious dishes using Package Foods 

Veribest Tuna Fish Salad 

Method : Cut around the can close to the edge, drain off the 

liquid and turn the fish on a bed of lettuce in a compact shape. Over 

each can of fish pour a cupful of mayonnaise dressing ; sprinkle the 

whole with shreds of green or red pepper and slices of olives. 

Creamed Corned Beef au Gratin 

1 cupful Armour's Veribest % teaspoonful salt 

Evaporated Milk X teaspoonful paprika 

1 cupful boiling water 1 can Armour's Veribest 
% an onion Corned Beef 

2 stalks celery 3 tablespoonfuls melted 
X cupful Cloverbloom Butter Cloverbloom Butter 
% cupful flour }i cupful cracker crumbs 

Method : Put the evaporated milk and water over the fire in 
a double boiler, add the onion and celery and let cook about fifteen 
minutes, then skim out the vegetables. Cream the butter, beat in 
the flour, salt, and paprika, and stir into the hot milk; continue to 
stir until smooth and thickened somewhat, cover and let cook fifteen 
minutes. Cut the can of corned beef into cubes half an inch in 
diameter, stir these into the hot milk and turn into a buttered 
baking dish. Mix the melted butter and crumbs and spread over 
the meat. Set into the oven to brown the crumbs. 
Creamed Veribest Com au Gratin 

1 can Veribest Corn 1 teaspoonful sugar 

3 tablespoonfuls oleomarga- yi cupful Armour' sEvaporat- 

rine ed Milk 

3yi tablespoonfuls flour % cupful water 

Yi teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

X teaspoonful black pepper % cupful fine cracker crumbs 

Method : The corn may be used as it is or chopped fine. Melt 
the oleomargarine, add flour, salt, pepper and sugar; stir until well 
blended and bubbling; add the milk and water and stir until boiling; 
stir in the corn and turn the mixture into a buttered baking dish. 
Mix the cracker crumbs with the melted butter, spread them over 
the corn mixture and let stand in the oven until evenly browned. 

Baked Caramel Custard 

% cupful sugar 2 whole eggs 

lyi cupfuls boiling water 4 egg yolks 

1 can A rmour's Veribest Evap- yi teaspoonful salt 

orated Milk 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Method ; Stir the sugar in a saucepan directly over the fire 
until melted and of amber color; pour on the boiling water and stir 
and cook until the caramel is dissolved ; add the evaporated milk ; 
beat the whole eggs and the yolks, add the salt and sugar, mix 
thoroughly ; gradually stir the milk mixture into the egg mixture. 
Butter a baking dish, dredge the butter with sugar; turn in the prep- 
aration ; put half a dozen or more layers of paper in a dish, on the 
papers set the dish of custard, pour boiling water around the custard 
to half its height. Bake till the center of the custard is firm. The 
water should not boil during the cooking. 

17 






<<5:i^. 




Veribest Salmon Salad 



1 can Veribest Salmon 
4 tablespoonfuls salad oil 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 
%. teaspoonful salt 

Method: Flake the salmon, mix with French dressing made 
of salad oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Arrange on lettuce and add 
mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 



yi teaspoonful pepper 
crisp lettuce 
mayonnaise dressing 
hard-boiled eggs 




Veribest Beef Tongue and Spinach 

spinach salt, pepper 

teaspoonful salt butter 

small piece pork Armour's Veribest Beef Tongue 

Method: Wash spinach very carefully in several waters be- 
fore putting it into boiling water in which has been placed a large 
teaspoonful of salt and a small piece of pork. Let it boil quickly 
and when done pour off the water, season with salt, pepper and 
butter. Heap the spinach in a platter and surround it with thin 
slices of Armour's Veribest Beef Tongue. 

(Note directions on can r^arding opening of same.) 



18 



Luncheon Beef and Macaroni in Tomato Sauce 

1 can Veribest Luncheon Beef, % cupful Armour's Oleomargarine 

cut in cubes Yz cupful flour 

1 cupful macaroni, cooked tender 1 teaspoonful salt 

4 cupfuls canned tomato puree %, teaspoonful pepper 

Method : Cook the macaroni in rapidly-boiling salted water 
until tender. Press enough canned tomato through a sieve to 
make four cupfuls of thickish Uquid (puree) (Veribest Tomato Soup 
may be used). Melt the Oleomargarine, in it cook the flour and 
seasoning, add the tomato and stir until boiling ; add the macaroni 
and meat and let stand undisturbed over boiling water until very hot 
Veribest Brisket Beef, Breaded 

fat salt pork 3 tablespoonfuls cold water or 

can Veribest Brisket Beef Veribest Evaporated Milk 

1 egg cracker crumbs 

Method : Cut the pork in bits and try out the fat. Cut the 
beef in slices. Beat the egg, add the water or milk, or half of each, 
and mix thoroughly. Dip the slices of meat in the egg, then in the 
crumbs; repeat the dipping if necessary to coat smooth. Fry in the 
fat until browned on one side, then turn to brown the other side. 

Luncheon Beef Stew 

6 onions 1 can Veribest Peas 

1 pint sliced potatoes % teaspoonful pepper 

1 can Veribest Tomato Soup 1 teaspoonful {or more) salt 

1 can Veribest Luncheon 2 tablespoonfuls Veribest 
Beef Chili Sauce 

Method: Peel the onions, cover with boiling water and let 
cook until they are nearly tender and the water is somewhat re- 
duced. Add the tomato soup. Parboil the potatoes five minutes, 
drain and add to the onions and soup and let cook ten minutes; 
add the luncheon beef, cut in slices, and the peas, and let simmer 
until the potatoes are done, add the salt, pepper and chili sauce. 
Serve very hot. 

Hot Canned Veribest Salmon, Egg Sauce 

Method : Set the cans of Veribest Salmon in a saucepan of 
boiling water, cover and let boil about half an hour. Cut the cans 
close to the edge, drain off the liquid and turn the fish in a solid 
piece on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. 

Egg Sauce for One Can Salmon 

3 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 1 cupful cold water 

Butter 1 cupful boiling water 

% cupful flour 3 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 
yi teaspoonful salt Butter 

X teaspoonful pepper 1 hard-cooked egg, cut in slices 

Method: Melt the first portion of butter, add the flour, salt 
and pepper, cook until frothy, add the cold water, stir until well 
blended; add the boiling water and stir until boiling, let boil three 
minutes ; beat in second portion of the butter a little at a time, add the 
egg and turn into a sauce boat or pour over the fish on the platter. 

19 



<<< 



Armour's Package Shortening 

'Simon Pure" Leaf Lard — Shield Lard — Vegetole 
Oval Label Products for Every Requirement of Shortening and Frying 

Armour and Company, the largest makers of lard in America, 
present the famous brand known as "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard as 
the "cream of lards" — the perfect shortening for bread and pastry, 
the ideal medium for deep frying and other cooking purposes. 

"Simon Pure" is made only from leaf fat. Because of its pu- 
rity and extra richness, it goes one-third farther than ordinary 
lard. 

"Simon Pure" is rendered in open kettles; all moisture is 
driven out of it. That is why it can be heated to 476° F, before it 
reaches the smoking point, a temperature much higher than that 
needed for any form of deep frying. 

"Simon Pure" will not hold taste or odors of foods; it can 
be clarified and used over and over again; the extreme high smok- 
ing point lessens danger of burning. 

"Simon Pure" is sold only in pails, — five convenient sizes. 

Other Pail Shortenings 

Not only is "Simon Pure" sold only in sanitary pails, but the 
same method protects the ever popular Shield Lard, a pure, high- 
grade product which gives satisfaction to growing thousands of 
housewives. Both "Simon Pure" and Shield Lard are Government- 
inspected and reach you under the Government seal. 

For those who wish a high-grade, purely vegetable shortening 
Armour and Company provide the very highly refined product 
Vegetole, the delicacy and purity of which make it a favorite with 
good cooks everywhere. 

20 



Frying 




Frying is cooking in deep fat. A two- 
quart cast aluminum kettle of the Scotch 
bowl type, rounded at bottom and pro- 
vided with a wire basket is the most 
convenient. In a two-quart kettle use 
two pounds of Armour's "Simon Pure" 
Leaf Lard. 

Points to be Remembered ^^^len Frying 

Heat the lard slowly. Test for right temperature. See table 
below. Avoid chilling lard by putting in too much food. Reheat 
lard between fryings. Drain all fried food on soft paper. 
When frying is finished, draw kettle to back of stove. Add sliced 
potato to absorb particles of food. Fat thus clarified can be used 
repeatedly. Strain fat through cheesecloth after clarifying. Cool 
strained fat, cover and keep in cool place. 

To Test the Temperature of Fats 

Heat fat until a cube of bread cooked in the fat becomes a golden 
brown in: 

40 SECONDS 

for 

Fishballs 
Croquettes 



60 SECONDS 

for 

Doughnuts, fritters 
and all food which 
has not been pre- 
viously cooked 



20 SECONDS 

for 
Potato chips 



1% cupfuls flour 
1 teaspoonful salt 



Foundation Recipes 
Plain Pastry 

X cupful Armour's "Simon Pure" 

Leaf Lard 
% cupful ice water 



Method: Mix salt with flour and sift twice, add lard and 
chop until of a mealy consistency, add water to make a stiff paste. 
Toss on a floured board, roll out. Roll like a jelly roll, chill one- 
half hour, then roll and use. Sufficient for one pie. 



1% cupfuls flour 
1 teaspoonful salt 



Flaky Pastry 

Yi cupful Armour's "Simon Pure" 

Leaf Lard 
ice water 



Method: Mix salt and flour. Reserve two tablespoonfuls 
lard, add remainder to flour and chop until of a granular consistency. 
Moisten to a stiff dough with ice water. Roll on a floured board, 
dot with the reserved lard, dredge with flour. Roll like a jelly roll, 
chill. Roll one-half of paste for lower crust and one-half for top. 

21 




Doughnuts 



iX cupfuls sugar 

2 egg yolks 

1 whole Veribest Egg 

1 cupful milk 

4% cupfuls flour 



1 teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful soda 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar 
few gratings nutmeg 
Armour's "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard 

Method: Mix sugar, eggs and milk, beat well, sift flour, salt, 
soda and cream of tartar four times, add nutmeg, combine mix- 
tures, beat well, chill in ice chest at least an hour, overnight is 
better. Roll on a floured board, cut out with doughnut cutter and 
fry in Armour's "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard. The fat is at the right 
heat when it browns a crumb of bread in sixty seconds. 




i. 



Baking Powder Biscuit 

2 cupfuls sifted flour 2 tablespoonfuls Armour's "Simon 
4 teaspoonfuls baking Pure" Leaf Lard 

powder }( to 1 cupful milk or 
1 teaspoonful salt yi milk and }i water 

Method: Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add lard, chop 
mixture until of a mealy consistency. Add milk gradually until 
a soft spongy dough is formed. Turn onto a floured board, toss 
with a knife until whole surface is floured, pat lightly with a rolling 
pin until one-half inch thick. 

Cut out and bake immediately on a greased sheet in a quick 
oven, about twelve minutes. 

22 





Mince Pie in Glass Pie Plate 



cold water 

Armour's Veribest Mince 
Meat 



1% cupfuls pastry flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 

X cupful Armour's "Simon Pure" 
Leaf Lard 

Method: Mix and sift flour and salt, add lard and chop until mixture 
resembles meal. Chill, add cold water to make a stiff paste. Roll pastry yi 
inch in thickness. Cut pastry yi inch larger than the plate to Jse filled. Spread 
on plate, wet edge of crust with cold water. Cover wet edge with a strip of 
pastry }^ inch wide. Fill the plate with Armour's Veribest Mince Meat. 
Cover with pastry cut X inch larger than the plate. Press edges of pastry 
firmly together. Prick top of crust with fork. Bake. Place pie in hot oven 
at first, reducing heat after crust becomes hardened. Turn frequently while 
baking. Bake until a golden brown — about forty -five minutes. 




1 Veribest Egg, 4 tablespoonfuls water 

sifted bread crumbs 

"Simon Pure" Leaf Lard for frying 

Veribest Canned Peas 

Cloverbloom Butter 

salt, pepper 



Chicken Croquettes with Peas 

% cupful "Simon Pure" 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire Sauce 

Leaf Lard 
}i cupful flour 
Yi, teaspoonful salt 
y% teaspoonful pepper 
lyi cupfuls milk 

1 Veribest Egg 

2 cupfuls chicken meat 

cut in cubes 

Method: Melt lard, add flour, salt and pepper and liquid, cook until 
thick, add egg slightly beaten and chicken and Worcestershire sauce. Chill 
thoroughly, shape in croquettes, allowing two level tablespoonfuls of mixture 
for each croquette. 

Beat the one egg in a soup plate, add water. Spread bread crumbs on 
board. Dipcroquettesinbreadcrumbs, then in egg, and again in crumbs. Roll 
each croquette on board until shaped and fry in deep lard, using frying basket 
and Scotch kettle. Drain on brown paper, arrange on platter, and garnish 
with hot peas, well seasoned with butter, salt and pepper. 

23 



> 



o 

3 



D) 
H 
JT 

ER 

o 
o 

3 



T 

00 

O 

9 



•2. 



o 
PS 

I 

n 

» 






o 



w2 

S3 



ft) 



Oq 
re 



W^ 



oX 



f^^ 



:^^ 



o 
n 

O 






ojfc: 






3- 



oX 



n 

8 
w 

8 



3- 



o 



S- 



ft 
o 



Cd 



N5 



O^ 



nX oK 



oK 



o^ 



oisp^ 



Oh- 



o^ 



Oi< 



o)^ 



ntc 



OK 



^- 



*v 



to 



3^ 



3" 



o*- 






ON) 



" Simon 
Pure" 



Sugar 



MUk 



0<J> 



Flour 



Baking 
Powder 



Oisc: 



kJnj 



:;l^ 



^to 



3^ 



to 



^^ 



3^ 



O' 



Com Meal 



:^^ 



Graham 
Flour 



Eggs 






Salt 



Soda 



O 

c 

3 

O. 

to 

o 

3 

f* 
o 

CO 

C 

CO 

3 
to 

cr 

►— ^ 

CO 

•o 

O 
O 
3 

CO* 



O 
co' 



CO 

3 
o 

3 
rt 






0^3?; 



3' 



3- 



:^^ 



3^ 






Yeast 



Molasses 



Spices 



Vanilla 




• 2 "^ o 
w < o> t^O 

< n 1-1, f 

£.2.3 n 
r-'< Q.ES 



a 
%■% 

ft X 

•a B) 

O V 

(f ^3 

(A C 



•^P 



33 

3" 
§■§. 

^1 
n 5* 

3« 

. >n 

rt 

B) 

CO 



"S tog' 

£.0} '-iW 
-•'^g < O 

?r 0.2.3- g 

o s-Pf-"- 



CO r 

g-»3. 

a M a 
a <fl — 

^■oc 
wEJcr 



an 

■n • Q 

Bl >Q. 

■rt r ' ■"* 
•-1 



'O 



rt "iH * 



oSJ a 

rt 0._. 
• rt £. 

w 
bl 3 

• B) 

o"W 



'gra 

rt ^ 

•CO gou 

o si 

3- = g. 



o 



24 



French Fried Potatoes 

Method: Pare potatoes of uniform si2e. Cut in eight pieces 
lengthwise. Place potatoes in cold water to which has been added 
lemon juice or vinegar. Let stand two hours. Drain, dry on a soft 
cloth and fry in hot "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard about three minutes, 
drain on brown paper, sprinkle with salt, and serve hot. 

Caution. In frying potatoes care should be taken to put into 
the fat only a few pieces, about six or eight, at a time. 

Peach Shortcake 

2 cupfiils flour 1 cupful Veribest Evaporated Milk 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 dozen canned peaches (Ar- 
>^ teaspoonful salt mour's Veribest) 

4 tablespoonfuls "Simon 1 cupful sugar 

Pure" Leaf Lard 1 cupful beaten cream 

Method: Mix and sift flour, baking powder and salt. Add 
lard and chop. Add milk. Spread in two greased round pans. 
Bake twelve minutes. Remove from oven. Invert on large serving 
plate. Spread with butter. Cover one buttered cake with peaches. 
Cover peaches with other shortcake. Decorate top with peaches 
and spoonfuls of beaten cream. 

Sauteed Green Tomatoes 

6 tablespoonfuls "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard 1 teaspoonful salt 
6 tablespoonfuls flour % teaspoonful pepper 

6 teaspoonfuls brown sugar 6 green tomatoes 

Method : Melt one tablespoonf ul lard in frying pan on back 

of range. Mix flour, sugar, salt and pepper. Slice tomatoes, dip 

in flour mixture and saute' in lard first on one side and then on 

other, add more lard as needed. Delicious with steak. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

^2 cupful melted ' ' Simon Pure " 5 cupfuls flour (about) 

Leaf iMrd 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cupful molasses 1 tablespoonful ginger 

1 % cupfuls brown sugar 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

1 cupful Veribest Evaporated Milk 2 teaspoonfuls salt 
1 Veribest Egg few grains of cayenne 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

Method: Boil lard, molasses and sugar five minutes; cool, 
add milk and egg well beaten. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add to 
egg mixture, beat well, add lemon juice, chill, cut in thick cookies 
and bake in quick oven. The egg may be omitted. 

Nut and Raisin Bread 

1 cupful Graham flour ^ cupful chopped nuts 

1 cupful entire-wheat flour }4 cupful seeded raisins 

1 cupful bread flour 1 Veribest Egg 

1 K teaspoonfuls salt 1 cupful Veribest Evaporated 

% cupful brown sugar Milk or 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 cupful water 

2 tablespoonfuls melted "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard 

Method : Mix and sift the flours, salt, sugar and baking pow- 
der; add remaining ingredients and beat well. Turn into greased 
bread pans, let stand one-half hour, then bake in moderate oven 
about forty-five minutes. 

25 




Armour's Oleomargarine 



Glendale 
(natural color) 



Silver Chum 

(white) 



The increasing use of high-grade Oleomargarine in the homes 
of well-to-do people is due to a growing understanding among 
intelligent housewives as to its composition and the ideal conditions 
under which it is made. 

No food product is more safeguarded in the making. The 
ingredients are those used daily in every home for cooking and 
baking — highly refined fats, churned with pasteurized milk. In 
Glendale is contained a good proportion of high-grade uncolored 
creamery butter. 

Science has removed the element of luck and haphazard 
chance in the manufacture of this product. Definite formulas are 
used. This insures uniformity. 

Dietitians and cooking experts agree in endorsing high-grade 
Oleomargarine for all purposes for which butter is used. They 
know this to be a helpful economy. They also know the ideal con- 
ditions under which Glendale and Silver Churn Oleomargarines 
are produced. In the Armour Oleomargarine chumery the most 
scrupulous cleanliness prevails. Government inspectors supervise 
every step in the making, and the package in which the product 
reaches the consumer shows on the label that the contents have 
been inspected and passed. 

Glendale is our highest grade natural color Oleomargarine; 
it is churned with pasteurized milk and uncolored creamery butter, 
which gives it an appetizing shade of yellow. 

Silver Chum Oleomargarine contains no butter; it is churned 
with pasteurized milk and cream; it has the natural white color. 

Both brands, Glendale and Silver Churn, are Oval Label prod- 
ucts, which insures a high standard at all times. 

26 



Raisin Drop Biscuit 

3 cupfuls flour yi cupful Armour's 
6 teaspoonfuls best baking Oleomargarine 

powder 1%. cupfuls milk 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful raisins 

Method: Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl; add 
oleomargarine and rub in very lightly until smooth; then add the 
milk slowly. Add the raisins. The dough must be soft enough 
so it will drop from the spoon on bake sheet, or in muffin tins that 
have been brushed with melted oleomargarine. Bake in hot oven 
twelve to fifteen minutes. Some flour will need less milk than others. 

Gingersnaps 

1 cupful Armour's Oleomar- 1 cupful New Orleans molasses 

garine 1 teaspoonful ground ginger 

1 cupful brown sugar flour enough to make a stiff 
1 teaspoonful salt dough 

Method : Cream the oleomargarine, sugar and salt together ; 
add molasses, which has been heated, then the ginger. Add the 
flour, enough to make a stiff dough. Place on floured board and 
roll out very thin, cut with fancy cutter. 

Place on floured bake sheet and bake eight to ten minutes in 
moderate oven. More spice can be used. No baking powder or 
baking soda is used with this recipe. 

Grandmother's Cookies 

yi cupful Armour's Oleomargarine Yz cupful sour milk 
1 cupful sugar 4 cupfuls flour or flour 

1 teaspoonful baking soda enough to handle 

Method : Cream the oleomargarine and sugar until smooth ; 
add the sour milk ; then the baking soda dissolved in one teaspoon- 
ful of boiling water; sift the flour and add to the mixture. Dust 
the bake board with flour, turn out the dough; roll ]i inch thick 
and cut with cruller cutter; sprinkle with granulated sugar; bake 
twelve minutes in hot oven. 

Cocoa Nut Bars 

K cupful Armour's Oleomargarine 1 cupful cocoa or grat- 

2 cupfuls sugar ed chocolate 

Yi. cupful milk yi teaspoonful cream 

3 Veribest Eggs of tartar 
Yz teaspoonful baking soda dissolved 3 cupfuls flour 

in 1 tablespoonful water 2 tablespoonfuls chop- 

ped nuts 

Method: Cream the oleomargarine and sugar together, add 
the milk slowly, then two well-beaten eggs. Add the baking soda, 
dissolved in water; then sift the cocoa into the mixture. Sift the 
cream of tartar with one cupful of flour and add to the mixture. 
Add the remainder of the flour. If more flour is needed, add. Place 
on floured board and roll out % inch thick. Cut into strips four 
inches long and one inch wide. Brush the top with well-beaten 
egg, then sprinkle with the chopped nuts. Bake in hot oven twelve 
to fifteen minutes. 

27 




Strawberry Shortcake 



2 quarts strawberries 

2 cupfub granulated sugar 



3 cupfuls pastry flour 

6 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

% teaspoonful salt 

5 tablespoonfuls Armour's 1 cupful whipped cream 

Oleomargarine 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

1 cupful milk (about) sugar 

Armour's Oleomargarine to spread the cakes 

Method : Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt and cut in the 
oleomargarine ; then stir in the milk to make a dough that may be spread with 
a spoon. The dough should be nearly stiff enough to knead. Bake from 
fifteen to twenty minutes in two round tins, rubbed over with oleomargarine. 
Hull and wash the berries; reserve about a cupful of the choicest berries as a 
garnish; cut the others in halves and mix with the sugar, crushing them 
slightly. Beat the cream and two tablespoonfuls of sugar very light. When 
the cakes are baked, remove from the tins, spread each generously with oleo- 
margarine and put them together with the sugared berries between and above; 
dispose the cream on top and set the whole berries here and there in the 
cream. Serve at once. 




Chocolate Layer Cake 

(Recipe on page 30) 

28 




Croutons of Cauliflower, Maitre d'H6tel 

Method: Trim the crusts from slices of stale bread to make squeires of 
the same size. Have as many squares as persons to be served. With a round 
cutter mark a ring in the center of each square, cutting halfway through the 
bread. Take out the crumb inside the ring to leave a hollow in the center. 
Brush or spread these squares with softened Armour's Oleomargarine. Set 
them into the oven on an agate plate, rubbed over with oleomargarine. Turn 
as needed to color them a delicate and even amber shade. Set a floweret of 
cooked cauliflower in the hollow of each crouton and pour over Maitre d'Hotel 
Sauce. Garnish with other fancy-shaped croutons prepared in the same way, 
and with tips dipped in white of egg and fine-chopped parsley. Serve at once. 
The heat of the cauliflower should melt the sauce. 

Maitre d'H6tel Sauce 

Method: For four croutons, beat one-fourth a cupful of Armour's Oleo- 
margarine to a cream ; beat in half a teaspoonf ul of paprika, a tablespoonful of 
fine-chopped parsley and, drop by drop, about three-fourths a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. This sauce is appropriate for any cooked vegetable and for 
broiled fish or meats. Do not set the dish into the oven to melt the sauce; 
the heat of the cooked article should suffice. 




Cheese, Pecan Nut and Pimento Sandwiches 

Method: Cut Boston brown bread and white bread into thin slices and 
stamp into rings with a doughnut cutter. Beat one-fourth a cupful of 
Armour's Oleomargarine to a cream; gradually beat in half a cupful (meas- 
ured light) of grated Veribest Cheese, half a teaspoonf ul of paprika and one- 
fourth a cupful of sliced pecan nut meats. Use this to spread the prepared 
bread ; drop on the mixture here and there thin slices of pimento, then press 
two pieces together. If the sandwiches are not to be served at once, wrap 
in Wcixed paper and a towel, or store in an earthen jar. 

29 



Chocolate Layer Cake 

(Illustrated on Page 28) 

}( cupful Armour's Oleomargarine 2% cupfuls flour 

1/4 cupfuls sugar 3U teaspoonfuls baking 

3 egg yolks powder 

}i cupful milk 3 egg whites, beaten light 

Method: Cream the oleomargarine and gradually beat in 

half the sugar; beat the yolks, beat in the rest of the sugar, and 

beat the two together. Add the milk, alternately, with the flour 

sifted with the baking powder and, lastly, beat in the egg whites. 

Bake in three layer-cake pans, rubbed over with oleomargarine, 

about twenty minutes. Put the layers together and decorate the 

top with chocolate frosting. 

Chocolate Frosting 

l]/2 cupfuls granulated sugar 3 squares chocolate melted 

Yz cupful boiling water % teaspoonful vanilla, 

3 egg whites, beaten very light Armour's 

Method : Melt the sugar in the boiling water, wash down the 
inside of the saucepan, cover and let boil hard three minutes; un- 
cover and let cook to a rather firm "soft ball, " or to 240° F. on the 
sugar thermometer; pour in a fine stream on the egg whites, beat- 
ing constantly meanwhile ; when all the syrup has been beaten into 
the egg whites, gradually beat in the chocolate and vanilla. After 
disposing frosting between the layers and on top of the cake, pipe 
the rest on the edge and at the center of the cake. 

Rich Four-Layer Cocoa Cake 

(Light Part) 

% cupful A rmour's Oleomargarine 2 cupfuls flour 

ly^ cupfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls best 

a pinch salt baking powder 

Yt. cupful milk 4 egg whites 

Method: Cream oleomargarine, sugar and salt together un- 
til light and creamy ; add milk slowly and half the flour, which has 
been sifted with the baking powder. Separate the eggs, beat the 
whites until light and mix m very lightly ; then fold in the rest of 
the flour and baking powder. Line two jelly or ten-inch square 
pans with double paper and bake fifteen to twenty minutes; time 
depends on heat of oven. When cool, remove paper. 

(Dark Part) 

Yi cupful Armour's Oleomargarine % cupful cocoa 

1% cupfuls sugar lY cupfuls flour 

Y cupful milk 2 teaspoonfuls best baking 

4 egg yolks powder 

a pinch salt 

Method: Cream oleomargarine and sugar until light; add 
milk slowly; beat the yolks of eggs until creamy, and add slowly, 
stirring all the time; sift cocoa, flour, baking powder and salt to- 
gether, fold in lightly. Line two of the same size pans as for the 
white cake; bake twenty minutes in moderate oven; put together 
alternately with boiled icing; cover top with icing, decorate with 
blanched almonds. 

30 



Nut Loaf Cake 

%* cupful Armour's Oleomargarine 3 cupfuls flour 

1^2 cupfuls sugar 4 level teaspoonfuls best 
4 Veribest Select Eggs baking powder 

1 cupful Veribest Evaporated Milk 1 cupful pecans 

Method : Rub oleomargarine and sugar together until creamy ; 
add the well-beaten yolks slowly and rub into a light, airy mass. 
Then add the milk slowly alternately with the flour which has been 
sifted twice with the baking powder. Add the nuts which have 
been put through the food chopper ; then beat the whites of eggs 
until stiff and stir in very hghtly. Brush Turk's head (tube pan) 
with melted oleomargarine or line with paper. Bake in very mod- 
erate oven fifty to fifty-five minutes. Test by pressing on top. If 
it does not leave an impression the cake is done; or use a fine 
knitting needle. 

Molasses Gems 

1 cupful A rmour's Oleomargarine 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 cupful brown sugar >^ teaspoonful grated 

I cupful New Orleans molasses nutmeg 

1 teaspoonful baking soda 3 cupfuls flour 

1 cupful boiling water 1 cupful seedless raisins 

Method : Stir oleomargarine, sugar and molasses until smooth; 
add baking soda which has been dissolved in hot water. Add cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Add the raisins to the sifted flour and stir 
into the other ingredients. Brush gem irons with melted oleomar- 
garine, and fill half full. Bake in slow oven twenty minutes. This 
amount makes four dozen small gems. 

Peanut- Butter Biscuit 
For School Children's Luncheon or Picnic Luncheon Box 

3 cupfuls flour % cupful Armour's Oleomargarine 

6 level teaspoonfuls best 1 cupful Veribest Peanut Butter 

baking powder 1 cupful Veribest Evaporated Milk 
1 level teaspoonful salt 

Method : Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl ; add 
oleomargarine and peanut butter. Rub very lightly until well 
mixed; then add the cold milk slowly until a light dough. Pat 
three-quarters inch thick on floured board and cut with small bis- 
cuit cutter. Brush top with milk and bake in hot oven fifteen 
to eighteen minutes. More milk may be needed. The milk de- 
pends on the flour one uses. 

German Sugar Cake 

3 cupfuls flour 1% c u p f u I s Veribest 
6 teaspoonfuls best baking powder Evaporated Milk 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

% cupful Armour's Oleomargarine ^ cupful brown sugar 

Method: Sift flour, baking powder and salt into bowl, add 
oleomargarine and rub in very lightly. Then add the milk slowly. 
This makes rather a soft dough. Place on floured board and roll 
out one inch thick. Place on bake sheet or two large pie plates. 
Dust with cinnamon and cover with brown sugar. Dot top with 
small pieces of oleomargarine. This makes a very good luncheon 
cake. 

31 



Armour's Bouillon Cubes 

An appetizer that is both healthful and stimulating is hot 
bouillon made with Armour's Bouillon Cubes. It is warming and 
refreshing and can be freely taken with pleasure and profit by old 
and young. One cube makes a cupful of rich, delicious bouillon. 
Just drop cube in cup, pour on boiling water, serve. 

A variety of ways in which Armour's Cubes (beef, chicken or 
clam) may be used are told in the following pages. 

Ways of Varying Plain Consomme' 

(1) To 1 cupfu! add teaspoonful Armour's Oyster Cocktail Sauce. 

(2) To 1 cupful add teaspoonful Tomato Pur6e. 

(3) To 1 cupful add thin slice Star Summer Sausage 1 minute. 

(4) To 1 cupful add cubes Veribest Cheese. 

(5) To 3>^ pints add 3 tablespoonfuls cooked rice or macaroni. Salt to taste. 

(Six persons.) 

(6) To 3)4 pints add 1 tablespoonful each chopped carrot and onion. Heat 

to boiling point and add 1 tablespoonful each canned com and peas. 
Salt to taste. (Six persons.) 

Plain Consomme' 

Method: Beef, chick- 
en or clam bouillon may be 
made instantly. Drop an Ar- 
mour Bouillon Cube into a 
cup and pour boiling water 
over it. Serve with wafers. 

Armour's 
Extract of Beef 




The secret of economical and 
successful cooking can be found 
in the use of Armour's Extract of 
Beef. This is just beef essence — 
the soluble salts of the meat. 

To meat and vegetable dish- 
es, it gives fine flavor and rich- 
ness. To left-overs it restores 
the sweetness and tastiness. It 
makes delicious soups, stews and 
gravies. Use it in croquettes, sal- 
ads and vegetable dishes, — it gives 
relish and zest. Thus it meets 
many kitchen emergencies and 
solves many kitchen problems. 

Armour's Extract of Beef is 
very highly concentrated; use it 
sparingly, else your food will be 
too rich. 

32 




l^genu ine Without the ^^ 

Armour's 

''^NUFACTURED & PACKED BV 

ARMOUR 8tCO. 

Chicago, U.S. A. 






Brown Gravy 

X teaspoonful A rmour's 2 tablespoonfuls A rmour's 

Extract of Beef Oleomargarine 

1 pint hot water 2 tablespoonfuls fiour 

% teaspoonful salt 

Method : Dissolve the extract of beef in the hot water. Put 
flour and oleomargarine in a pan, place over fire and rub flour 
smooth with the melting oleomargarine. When this is thoroughly 
blended and browned add the salt, hot water, and beef extract 
slowly, stirring constantly to prevent lumping. Let gravy come 
to a boil, and serve. Makes one pint. Time required, ten minutes. 
Gravy will be rich and of a delicious flavor. 





Directions for Using Hot "Water and Cubes 

Method: Armour's Bouillon Cubes make it possible for the 
housewife to serve a delicious, refreshing beverage at a moment's 
notice. Drop one cube, either chicken, beef, or clam, into a cup, 
pouring boiling water directly on the cube. Each cube makes one 
cupful of choice bouillon. 

33 



Standard Sauces Made with Armour's 
Extract of Beef 

Plain Brown Sauce (To serve with steaks and roasts) 

2 tablespoonfuls Armour's 1 teaspoonful Armour's Extract 

Oleomargarine of Beef 

2 tablespoonfuls flour % teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful pepper % pint hot water 

Method : Melt the oleomargarine in a saucepan and stir into 
it the flour. While the flour is browning rub constantly with back 
of spoon to press out all lumps. When nicely browned add sea- 
soning and water in which the extract has been dissolved. Let 
boil up and serve. This foundation sauce may be varied by the 
addition of various spices and vegetables. 

Sauce Piquante (To serve with fish) 

1 tablespoonful minced onion }i teaspoonful A rmour's Ex- 

1 bay leaf tract of Beef 

1 teaspoonful celery seed 1 cupful boiling water 

1 tablespoonful vinegar yi teaspoonful salt 
lYz tablespoonfuls flour 1 egg yolk 

2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 1 tablespoonful vinegar 

Butter 4 tablespoonfuls puree of tomato 

Method : Pour one-half cupful of cold water over onions, bay 
leaf, celery seed and vinegar. Let boil rapidly for a moment; strain 
and cool. Mix flour and butter as directed for Plain Sauce, add 
the Armour's Extract of Beef dissolved in the boiling water. When 
sauce boils, remove from heat, add salt and beaten egg yolk, stir- 
ring constantly. Put sauce over fire again and add the vinegar 
and tomato puree. 

Sauce a la Bechamel 

(To serve with chicken, croquettes and delicate meats) 

2 tablespoonfuls flour % cupful boiling water 

2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom Butter 1 tablespoonful salt 

X cupful Veribest Evaporated Milk j4 tablespoonful pepper 

1 tablespoonful Armour's Extract dash of paprika 

of Beef 1 egg yolk 

Method : Rub the flour smooth in the melted butter, add the 
milk and Armour's Extract of Beef dissolved in the boiling water. 
Stir until sauce boils, add seasoning, take from heat and add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten with a teaspoonful of evaporated milk. 
Reheat and serve. When flour and butter is properly blended these 
sauces do not require straining. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls Armour's }i pint strained tomatoes 

Oleomargarine %. teaspoonful Armour's 
2 tablespoonfuls flour Extract of Beef 

1 tablespoonful chopped onion salt 

1 teaspoonful mace pepper 

Method: Mix the butter and flour; add onion, mace, tomato 
and extract in order. Stir until boiling. Add salt and pepper, 
strain through a sieve and serve. 

34 



•/frmours 



keilg^ 






"^ 



Cloverbloom Butter 
Veribest Cheese 
Veribest Eggs 

The vast collecting 
facilities of Armour and 
Company, with their net- 
work of assembling sta- 
tions all over the country, 
make the choice of 
high grade dairy 
products a natural 
extension of their 
food purveying. 

Cloverbloom But- 
ter is made in a rich pasture district ; only sweet pasteurized cream 
is used. Its fine flavor and sweetness are so guarded by careful 
packing and advanced methods of distribution that it can be most 
highly recommended as the table butter for fastidious people. 

Veribest Cheese is a full cream product made in the rich dairy 
regions of Wisconsin and New York. Delicate in flavor, it just suits 
the American taste in cheese. 

Veribest Select Eggs are not only selected for size, but are so 
carefully candled that color and fullness may be ascertained. Thus 
we are confident of offering our customers dependable eggs at all 
seasons of the year. 

Cloverbloom Butter, Veribest Cheese and Veribest Eggs are 
all Armour Oval Label Products. 



■"v.. 




i^ 













Toast with Cloverbloom Butter 

Method:- There is nothing more appetizing than crisp toasted bread 
served with Armour's Cloverbloom Butter. The individual portions of butter 
are readily moulded into attractive shapes with wooden paddles. These pad- 
dles are first scalded and then cooled in ice water to prevent the butter from 
adhering to them. 

35 



Hunter's Com Cake 

1 cupful corn meal 1 cupful Veribest Evapo- 

2 cupfuls white flour rated Milk 
2^2 tablespoonfuls baking powder 1 cupful cold water 

1 teaspoonful salt thin slices Star Bacon cut 
Yi cupful sugar in bits 

2 Veribest Select Eggs Cloverbloom Butter 

Method : Sift dry ingredients together ; add eggs, the milk and 
the water. Stir to a smooth mixture. Turn into well-greased shallow 
pan, sprinkle bacon evenly over the top. Bake half an hour. 

Canned Com Griddle Cakes 

2 cupfuls Veribest Canned Com Yz cupful water 

2 Veribest Select Eggs, beaten 1 cupful flour 

light 4 teaspoonfuls baking 

yi cupful Veribest Evaporated powder 

Milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls melted Cloverbloom Butter 

Method : Chop the corn ; add the eggs, the milk diluted with 

the water, and the flour sifted with the baking powder and salt, and 

mix thoroughly; add the butter and bake by the large spoonful in 

a hot, well-greased frying pan or on a griddle. 

Egg and Green Pepper Sandwiches 

6 hard-boiled Veribest Select 1 tablespoonful Veribest Ketchup 
Eggs Y teaspoonful salt 

1 green pepper % teaspoonful Armour's Mustard 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil cream 

Method: Chop eggs and pepper, mix other ingredients and 
add to chopped eggs, moisten with cream and spread between thin 
slices of buttered bread. Cut in fancy shapes and keep in damp 
cloth until ready to serve. 

Egg Salad 

6 hard-boiled Veribest Select Eggs 4 pimentos 

Y cupful mayonnaise 2 hearts lettuce 

1 teaspoonful paprika 

Method: Cut eggs in halves lengthwise, remove yolks, cut 
whites in thirds lengthwise. Mash yolks and add mayonnaise. Chop 
pimentos. Arrange lettuce in nests, put one tablespoonful pimento 
in each nest. Arrange whites of eggs on top of pimento in shape 
of a star. Put a teaspoonful of yolk in center of star, sprinkle 
with paprika and dot each nest with mayonnaise. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

1 can Veribest Tomatoes 1 teaspoonful salt 

2Y cupfuls soft bread crumbs Y teaspoonful pepper 

Y cupful melted Cloverbloom 2 tablespoonfuls scraped onion 

Butter if desired 

Method: Drain off nearly a cupful of the liquid from the 
tomatoes. Mix the butter with the crumbs. Put a layer of crumbs 
and a layer of tomato, alternately, in a buttered baking dish, sea- 
soning the tomatoes with pepper and salt. Have the last layer one 
of crumbs. Bake until hot throughout and the crumbs are browned. 
If the onion is used, mix it through the tomato ; fine-chopped parsley 
or a shredded green pepper may be added with the onion. 

36 



Stuffed Eggs 

6 Veribest Select Eggs l%cupfuls thick white sauce 

6 tablespoonfuls Star Ham, 1 cupful buttered cracker 

minced crumbs 

Method: Cook eggs until hard, remove shells, cut eggs in 
halves, remove yolks. Mash yolks, add ham and moisten with 
white sauce, shape into balls, return to halves of whites and place 
two halves together. Arrange stuffed eggs in buttered baking 
dish, cover with white sauce, cover whole with buttered crumbs 
and cook in oven until crumbs are brown. 

Thick White Sauce 

4 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom % teaspoonful pepper 

Butter 1 }i cupfuls Veribest Evap- 
4 tablespoonfuls flour orated Milk 

Yt teaspoonful salt few grains cayenne 

Method : Melt butter, add flour, stir imtil smooth, add other 

ingredients and cook ten minutes. 

Eggs in Ramequins 

1 cupful Veribest Cheese 6 Veribest Select Eggs 

1 teaspoonful salt % cupful buttered cracker 

1 teaspoonful Armour's Mustard crumbs 

Method: Butter individual ramequin dishes, sprinkle with 
grated cheese and salt and mustard, break ^^'g on top of cheese 
mixture, sprinkle with more cheese and cover with buttered crumbs. 
Place ramequin dishes in a pan of hot water and bake in moderate 
oven about ten minutes. Serve immediately. 

Spanish Omelet 

4 Veribest Select Eggs 2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom Butter 

4 tablespoonfuls hot water 2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion 

Yt teaspoonful salt 2 cupfuls Veribest Canned Tomatoes 

% teaspoonful pepper 1 tdblespoonful chopped pepper 

1 tablespoonful Clover- yi teaspoonful salt 

bloom Butter 1 teaspoonful capers 

Method : Beat eggs slightly, add hot water, salt and pepper. 
Melt butter in omelet pan, when sizzling add egg mixture, and cook 
slowly until brown on the under side, add tomato sauce, turn and 
serve. For the tomato sauce, melt the two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
add onion and cook until a golden yellow; add tomato, pepper and 
salt and boil five minutes; add capers. 

Macaroni and Cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 1 cupful grated Veribest 

Butter Cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cupful cooked macaroni 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful cracker crumbs 

yi teaspoonful pepper few grains cayenne 

lyi cupfuls Veribest Evapo- 2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 

rated Milk Butter 

Method: Melt butter, add flour, salt, pepper and milk, boil 
five minutes, add cheese, remove from fire and stir until cheese is 
melted. Arrange macaroni in baking dish, cover with cheese mix- 
ture. Mix cracker crumbs, cayenne and melted butter. Spread 
over macaroni mixture and bake until crumbs are brown. 

37 



Armour's Grape Juice, 100% Pure 

No Other Drink Affords So Great a Variety 

Grape Juice is fast becoming the universal drink. 
Realizing its importance in the dietary, Armour and 
Company have spared no trouble or expense in producing a 
product absolutely pure, unadulterated, unfermented. 

The grapes chosen are the Concords 
of the rich grape - growing regions of 
Michigan and New York. They are im- 
mediately stemmed and pressed after 
picking, the juice drawn into large glass 
containers, sterilized and especially proc- 
essed to remove all sediment and floating 
solids. 

Because Armour's is full- 
strength Grape Juice it can be diluted. 
Used with one-third water, either 
charged or plain, it makes a most 
satisfying, thirst-quenching, and 
healthful drink. 



Armour's Grape 
Juice High Ball 

Method: Put a 
piece of ice in each 
glass; rather more than 
half -fill the glasses with 
grape juice, then fill 
with charged water 
{from a syphon). 




Armour's Grape Juice Sherbet 

1 quart water 3 tablespoonfuls cold water 

2 cupfuls sugar 2 cupfuls Armour's Grape 
1 teaspoonful granulated Juice 

gelatine juice one lemon 

Method : Boil the water and sugar twenty minutes after boiling begins, 
add the gelatine softened in the three tablespoonfuls of cold water and strain. 
When cold add the grape juice and lemon juice and freeze. Serve in sherbet 
glasses with a cherry above the sherbet. 




w 




.^"» ^-J 



38 



Armour's Grape Juice 
Lemonade 

Method: Mix the juice of two 
lemons with half a cup of granulated 
sugar, then stir in one pint of Ar- 
mour's Grape Juice; continue to stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, add 
enough cold water to make a quart of 
liquid; turn into a pitcher in which 
there is a piece of ice. Add a few 
thin slices of lemon from which the 
seeds have been taken, and a few 
maraschino cherries. Serve with an 
extra supply of sliced lemon and 
pineapple, cherries and sprigs 
of fresh mint, that each 
glass may be decorated. 




Grapefruit with Grape Juice 

Method: Cut choice grapefruit in halves, crosswise. With 
a thin, sharp knife cut around the pulp in each little section of the 
fruit, that the whole of each section of pulp may be Ufted out in- 
tact. Also, cut the membrane, separating the sections and the 
'core from the skin and remove all the membrane and the pithy 
center in one piece. Set the prepared halves of grapefruit into 
dishes partly filled with shaved ice. Pour Armour's Grape Juice 
into the center of each fruit to fill the space left by the removal of 
the membrane. Pass sifted confectioner's sugar with the fruit. 




39 



Recipes 

Grape Juice Sponge, Princess Style 

3^ package gelatine juice % lemon 

X cupful cold water 3 egg whites, beaten light 

% cupful Armour's Grape Juice X pound marshmallows, cut 
Yi cupful sugar in quarters 

Method: Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
by heating over boiling water; add the Armour's Grape Juice, sugar 
and lemon juice and stir over ice and water till the mixture begins 
to thicken, then gradually beat in the egg whites; when the mix- 
ture holds its shape, fold in the marshmallows and turn into a 
mold, or into individual glass cups. Serve with cream. 

Grape Juice Parfait 

iK cupfuls cream, beaten very light X cupful sugar 

yi cupful Armour's Grape Juice yi cupful grape juice 

juice yi. lemon 1 egg white, beaten light 

Method : After the cream is beaten Ught, add the Armour's 
Grape Juice and lemon juice and again beat light. Dissolve the 
sugar in the second half -cupful of grape juice, cover and let boil to 
the soft-ball stage (about 236° F.), then pour in a fine stream on the 
egg white, beating constantly meanwhile; beat occasionally until 
cold; fold the two mixtures together and turn into a quart mold 
(a brick-shaped mold with two covers is the best) filling the mold to 
overflow; lay a paper over the mixture and press the cover in place 
over the paper. Pack in equal measures of crushed ice and rock 
salt. Let stand between two or three hours. Repack if necessary. 

Uses of Armour's Grape Juice for Flavoring 
and Tinting Food 

(1) Use in place of water in making boiled frosting for cake. 

(2) Use for making grape jelly to be eaten with meat, etc. 

(3) Use for making grape jelly with gelatine for a dessert to be 

eaten with cream and sugar. 

(4) Use boiled a few minutes with sugar as a plain sauce for pud- 

dings or rice. 

(5) Use to tint and flavor lemonade and fruit punch. 

(6) Use to pour over sliced and sugared bananas. 

Foundation Recipes 

Grape Juice Pudding Sauce 
{For cottage pudding, blancmange, boiled rice, cornstarch pudding, etc.) 
Method: Boil one cupful of granulated sugar and half a cupful of Ar- 
mour's Grape Juice six to eight minutes after boiling begins; slowly pour this 
on the white of one egg beaten very light, beating constantly meanwhile; beat 
occasionally until cold, then fold in a cupful of whipped cream. 

Grape Juice Pudding Sauce, No. 2 

Method : Boil one cupful of sugar and one cupful of Armour's Grape Juice 
five minutes; stir in two to three level teaspoonfuls of cornstarch mixed with 
water to a smooth consistency and let simmer ten minutes. 

40 







Marshmallo-w Peaches 

1 can Armour's Veribest Peaches 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
1 cupful whipped cream % lb. fresh marshmallows 

Method: Arrange the half peaches (cavity up) on a dessert 
dish. Add the sugar to the whipped cream, place a tablespoonful 
in the cavity of each peach and a fresh marshmallow on top. Serve 
as a dessert with cake. 







Veribest Pineapple Salad 

2 lettuce heads salt 

1 can Armour's Veribest cayenne 

Sliced Pineapple 1 small bottle Veribest Cherries 

Cloverbloom Cheese French dressing 

Method: Line the salad bowl with lettuce. On this bed of 
lettuce place slices of Veribest Pineapple, one for each person to be 
served. Cream the cheese, season with salt and cayenne and place 
in the hole in center of the pineapple. Press a large Veribest 
Cherry on top of the cheese. Pour French dressing over cheese 
and pineapple and serve. 



41 



Armour's California Fruits 

The climate of California, changing as it does from elevation 
to valley, is responsible for the wide variety and excellence of the 
fruit grown there. Armour and Company, true to their policy of 
selecting a food product where it grows best, are securing the 
fruit of no less than thirty canneries in California, each in the 
center of a fruit-producing region. This makes it possible to pack 
the fruit the day it is gathered, and the moment it has arrived at 
just the right degree of ripeness. 

This is one reason for the high excellence of Veribest Peaches, 
canned in middle California; of the Royal Ann Cherries, which 
take their name from the old Spanish city of Santa Ana, near which 
the factories are located, and of the Apricots from the same dis- 
trict; of Veribest Plums, both egg and green gage, gathered in the 
coast regions; and Veribest Pears, fine, large Bartletts, raised in the 
northern part of the state. 

Hawaiian Pineapple 

From the Hawaiian Islands, the native home of this delectable 
fruit, comes Armour's Veribest Pineapple. People often ask why 
this canned pineapple is so superior to the fresh fruit, as we know 
it here. The reason is that the latter is picked green to ripen as 
well as it can during transportation, while Armour's Canned Pine- 
apple is plucked when it is fully ripe, the pulp is tender and the 
juices have arrived at their fullest sweetness. This is all preserved 
by quick, scientific methods of canning and brought to the con- 
sumer in its perfect state. 

Other Preserves, Jams and Jellies 

These, however, are only a part of the entire line of preserved 
fruits, jellies and jams produced by Armour and Company (see 
page 56). Delicious cherries, raspberries, gooseberries and other 
small fruits come to the perfectly equipped preserving station at 
Frankfort, Michigan, and the cream of the strawberry output to 
the Strawberry Station at Ridgely, Maryland. 

The Armour Veribest label under which these products are sold 
guarantees the housewife always highest quality and uniformity. 

Fruit Salad 

lettuce olive oil 

bananas Armour's Grape Juice 

orange lemon, salt 

Armour's Hawaiian Pineapple Veribest Cherries 

Method : Dispose heart leaves of lettuce on a serving dish, 

above set groups of peeled and sliced bananas, sections of orange 

freed of all membrane, and slices of Hawaiian Pineapple, separated 

into small triangular pieces. For about a pint of prepared fruit, 

stir one-third a cupful, each, of olive oil and Armour's Grape Juice, 

two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and half a teaspoonful of salt 

until well blended. Pour over the fruit. Garnish with Veribest 

Cherries. 

42 




Armour's Dry Sausage 

Armour and Company, as the world's largest manufacturers 
of Dry (or Summer) Sausage, produce many millions of pounds 
yearly. There are nearly a hundred kinds — in sufficient variety 
to satisfy the tastes of every nationality. 

Dry Sausage is a tempting delicatessen dainty; seasoned with 
the finest spices, it is very nourishing and appetizing. For these 
reasons it has held a high place in European dietary, served with 
other relishes as the first course of a meal, or, as an economical 
principal meat course. 

Most travelers return from Europe with a keen relish for the 
various sausages they have eaten during their travels — sausage 
d' Aries, or Lyon, in France, the slightly garlic-fiavored Milan Salami 
in Italy, or the Gothaer and Summer sausage of Germany. The 
excessive cost of importation, however, placed these delicacies 
among the luxuries of life, until the American manufacturer, seeing 
the growing demand for dry sausage and the possibility of reduc- 
ing its cost by improved methods of manufacture, proved that it 
could be better made here than abroad. 

Dry Sausage is most practical as well as one of the most deli- 
cious of meat products. There is not a scrap of waste ; it requires no 
cooking or preparation of any sort; it will keep almost indefinitely. 
For the emergency shelf, the impromptu late supper, the children's 
lunch box or the automobile hamper, the housewife will find many 
calls for this delicious product. Its use as an hors d'oeuvre, sliced 
thin and garnished with olives, radishes, etc., and served before 
the soup course, is also rapidly growing in this country. 

Following are a few dry sausage favorites: Summer Sausage 
(sometimes called Cervelat), German Salami, Gothaer Cervelat- 
wurst, Goteborg, Landjaeger, Farmer Sausage, Holstein, Milan 
Salami, Sopressata, Genoa, Lyons, Mortadella, Gold Band. 

Note — The appearance of mold on the container of dry 
sausage in no way affects the quality of the prodv/it. 

43 



Armour's Fresh Meats 

The development of the refrigerator car system by the late Philip D. Armour is 
responsible, more than any other single factor, for a steady and continuous supply of meat at 
reasonable prices throughout the consuming centers of the country. Without this, meat 
supply would be irregular with a much higher scale of prices in parts of the country distant 
from the cattle producing regions. 

The protein of meat is very completely digested and assimilated and has therefore a 
high food value. A proper proportion of meat is of especial importance as a constituent of 
a well-chosen mixed diet, such as enjoyed by the majority of the most civilized and intelli- 
gent nations of the temperate zones. In such a diet, meat supplies not only a certain pro- 
portion of the energy which is also furnished by carbohydrates and fats, but it also supplies 
the material for the repair of the body tissues, so as to make up for the wear and tear which 
these tissues undergo in performing their various functions. In addition, meat contsiins 
certain constituents, such as the meat bases, organic phosphorous compounds, etc., which 
are of importance in a well-chosen diet and do not exist in vegetables. 

The diagram shows a carcass of prime beef, cut and numbered to indicate the portions 
as used in cooking. The housewife interested in getting the best returns for the family food 
money, would do well to carefully consider the great difference in prices of various meat 
cuts. The increase of cost of popular rib and loin cuts, which from a nutritious standpoint 
are no more valuable than the round or shoulder, makes important the subject of proper 
cooking of the cheaper pieces. 

Divisions and Descriptions of Beef 




No. 


Name 


Comparative 

Cost 


Characteristics 


Used for 


1 


Shank 


Cheapest 




Stews and soups 


2 


Round 


Economical 


Nutritious, slow cooking 


Steaks, stew, pot roast 


3 


Rump 


Medium 


Nutritious, nefds skill 


Steaks, pot roast, braising 


4 


Sirloin 


Elx pensive 


Tender, cooks easily 


Steab 


5 


Pin Bone 


Expensive 


Easily cooked 


Steaks 


6 


Porter House 


Expensive 


Elasily cooked 


Steab 


7 


Prime ribs (first cut) 


ELxpensive 


Ejuily cooked 


RoasU 


8 


Prime ribs (middle cut) 


Elxpensive 


Easily cooked 


RoasU 


9 


Prime ribs 


Expensive 


Needs sUl 


Roasts 


10 


Short ribs 


Economical 


Elasily cooked 


Roasts or stews 


11 


Flank 


Economical 


Needs skill 


Flank steak; stewing; braising 


12 


Plate 


Elconomical 


Needs syi 


Coming, pot toast, stewing 


13 


Brisket 


Medium 


Needs skill 


Coming, pot roast, stews 


14 


Chuck 


Economical 


Needs skiU 


Roasts, steaks, pot roasts, stews 


15 


Shoulder clod 


Economical 


Needs skill 


Steaks, pot roasts 


16 


Neck 


Economical 


Needs skiD 


Pot roasts, stews, coming 



44 



Foundation Recipes 

Baking Meat (Roasting) 

Method : Arrange the meat on a rack in the roaster. Place in a very hot 
oven to sear the cut surfaces and thereby keep in the juices. Reduce the tem- 
perature, add hot water to the roaster to keep the meat moist. Baste frequently, 
cover the roEister zind cook until the desired degree of rareness is reached. About 
fifteen minutes to the pound. 

Broiling Meat (Open Fire Method) 

Method: Place the meat on the broiler close to the fire until the surface 
is seared. Turn and sear 4:he other surface. Remove farther from the fire, 
turning frequently to insure even cooking. The thicker the piece of meat the 
longer time is required for cooking. A three-inch steak will require about 
twenty-five minutes to a half hour, according to the degree of rareness desired. 

Broiling Meat (Pan Broil) 

Method: Place the meat upon a very hot iron or aluminum frying pan, 
and sear on both sides. Lower the temperature and cook, turning each ten 
seconds, until "rare" or "well done" as desired. 

Sauteing Meat 

Method : Put the meat in a frying pan containing a small quantity of 
smoking hot "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard, and sear both sides. Turn frequently 
to insure even cooking. 

Fr^ang Meat 

Method: Immerse in deep "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard raised to a tempera- 
ture of 400° F. When seared, lower the temperature slightly and continue to 
cook. A frying basket is convenient but not necessary. 

Test oi Temperatures of Fat 
Method 

1. Fat which turns bread a golden brown in forty seconds is right for a 
"cooked mixture" such as croquettes. 

2. Fat which turns bread golden brown in one minute is right for uncooked 
meats such as chops. 

Boiling Meat 

Method: Immerse in boiling water to sear the outside and keep the 
juices in. Then reduce the temperature and simmer. Cook slowly at a low 
temperature until tender. 

Stewing Meat 

Method: Sear the meat. For "brown stew," sear by means of a hot 
skillet as in pan broiling. For a "pale stew," sear by plunging into boiling 
water. When seared, reduce the temperature and simmer in enough water to 
cover the meat. 

Making Soup 
Method: Use both meat and bones. Cut the meat into small pieces; 
cover with cold water, heat slowly and stew at a low temperature until juices 
are extracted. Strain. Split the bones, cover with hot water, and boil to ex- 
tract the gelatine, which gives "body" to the soup stock. Strain, combine the 
two liquids, season and serve. 

Braising Meat 

Method: Braising is stewing with vegetables. Saut6 the vegetables in 
a stewing pan, arrange the pieces of meat compactly on top of the layer of 
vegetables; cover and cook about fifteen minutes; then cover meat with an- 
other layer of vegetables seasoned with parsley, thyme or onion. Add water 
to stock to come up through the vegetables. Cover closely and cook slowly 
until the meat is tender. Remove the cover and brown the meat (Meat may 
be previously seared in hot fat). 

45 



Armour's Devonshire Farm Sausage and 
Sausage Meat 

Armour's Devonshire Farm Sausage might be called the national 
American breakfast dish, associated in memory with stacks of steaming wheat 

In spite of the wide popularity of Devon- 




Armours 



DE VONS HIRE FARM STYLE 




cakes and the aroma of the coffee urn. 
shire, however, it is doubtful if 
many housewives are familiar with 
the wide variety of ways this sau- 
sage can be prepared and served, 
and the number of food products 
with which it can be combined. In 
the following pages are some 
novel recipes in some of which 
Devonshire bulk sausage can 
be used in place of the links. 

Devonshire Farm Sau- 
sage is a pure all-pork 
product, delicately seasoned 
with choice spices. It is one 
of the standard Oval Label 
products. 

Veribest Frankfurt 

Sausage 

A very high-grade Frank- 
furt sausage, put up in car- 
tons for family use. This 
sausage is especially dear to the youthful appetite, — older ones, too, have 
been known not to despise it, and the housewife will welcome this pure, 
wholesome product of guaranteed Oval Label quality. 

Recipes 
Sausages may be baked, fried or boiled. Whatever the process, before cook- 
ing, cut the sausages apeirt and prick them with a fork. In frying, or baking, 
they should be turned occasionally. 

French Sausage 
1 cupful Devonshire Farm 

Sausage Meat 
}i tablespoonful Cloverbloom 

Butter 3 French rolls 

Method : Bake sausage meat, allowing one cupful for the fill- 
ing of three rolls. Cool baked sausage and moisten to a paste with 
brown sauce made as follows: — Brown the butter, add the flour and 
extract of beef dissolved in the hot water. Split French or Vienna 
rolls, remove a small portion of center and fill with sausage filling. 
These rolls served with hot coffee from a thermos bottle make a 
hearty and most satisfactory lunch. 

For a Chafing Dish 



Rolls 

% tablespoonful flour 
% cupful hot water 
X teaspoonful Armour's 
Extract of Beef 



6 Devonshire Farm Sausage 

Links 
boiling water 

2 tablespoonfuls Oleomargarine 
2 tablespoonfuls fUmr 



Supper 
1 cupful Veribest Evap- 
orated Milk 
salt and pepper 
Worcestershire sauce 
baked potatoes, toast or 
hot rolls 

Method : Cook sausages ten minutes in boiling water. Remove 
skin and cut in inch pieces. Cook ten minutes in white sauce made 
as follows: — Melt the Oleomargarine, add the flour, milk and 
seasonings. Serve on toast, with baked potatoes, or with rolls. 

46 



Armour's Devonshire Farm Sausage 
and Sausage Meat 

Devonshire Farm Sausage Meat and Rice Cakes 

1 cupful cooked rice salt and pepper 

1 Veribest Select Egg flour 

4 tablespoonfuls cold cooked Devon- "Simon Pure" Leaf 

shire Farm Sausage Meat Lard for sauteing 

Method : Chop the sausage and mix with the rice and unbeat- 
en egg. Season with salt and pepper and shape into round, flat 
cakes. Add more rice if cakes do not hold together well. Sprinkle 
cakes with flour and saute in "Simon Pure" Leaf Lard, until brown. 
This dish disposes of left-over sausage and rice. 

Veribest Select Eggs Stuffed with Devonshire 
Farm Sausage 

6 hard-boiled Veribest Select Eggs Cloverbloom Butter 

6 Devonshire Farm Sausage Links Worcestershire Sauce 

baked very crisp salt and pepper 

Method : Cut eggs in halves and remove yolks. Mash yolks, 
moisten with creamed butter, and mix with chopped sausages that 
have been baked brown and very crisp. Season with Worcestershire 
sauce, salt and pepper, and refill the whites. Put halves together 
and wrap in paraffine paper. 

A Luncheon Dish 

Devonshire Farm apples 

Sausage fat 

toast salt 

Cloverbloom Butter parsley 

Method : Fry, or bake sausages and place on buttered strips 
of toast. Between strips of toast, arrange three quarter-sections 
of apple previously fried in deep fat and sprinkled with salt. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Sausages with Fried Apples 

1 pound Armour's Devonshire Farm 3 apples 

Sausage Links parsley 

Method: Cut sausages apart, prick each sausage several 
times with a two-tined fork, put in frying pan, cover with boiling 
water and cook from fifteen to thirty minutes. Drain off water and 
cook sausages until well browned, turning often. Drain on brown 
paper. Wipe apples and cut them in thick slices, discarding the 
end pieces. Saute in sausage fat until soft, being careful that 
slices do not lose their shape. Pile sausages in center of platter, 
arrange apples as a border around and garnish with parsley. 

47 




Sausage and Griddle Cakes 

Method: Turn Devonshire Farm Sausage Links into a very 
hot skillet. Brown on all sides, reduce the heat, cover and allow 
to cook through slowly while preparing the griddle cakes. 



Griddle Cakes 



}i teaspoonful salt 
1 teaspoonful soda 
1 egg 



2 cupfuls flour 

2 teaspoonfuls "Simon Pure" 

2 cupfuls sour milk 

1 tablespoonful sugar 

Method: Sift dry ingredients, add milk, well-beaten egg and 
melted " Simon Pure" Leaf Lard. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot griddle 
well greased with "Simon Pure." Cook until brown, turn and cook 
the other side. Arrange on hot plate and serve with the Devon- 
shire Farm Sausage. Arrange the sausages on a hot platter and 
garnish with parsley. 




Potato Salad with Frankfurts 

Method : Slice cold boiled potatoes thin, marinate with salad 
dressing; arrange in center of platter, sprinkle with chopped pars- 
ley and arrange hot Veribest Frankfurts as a border. Garnish 
with sprigs of parsley and serve at once. 



48 



The Three Forms of Table Service 

1. The Russian Service is most formal. No food is on the 
table except candy and nuts. All serving is done from the pantry 
or the serving table. The food is attractively arranged upon 
suitable dishes from which each person helps himself; or portions 
may be arranged upon plates, one of which is placed before each 
person. The former method is preferable. 

2. The English Service is informal. The food is placed upon 
the table and served by those seated at the head and the foot. If 
one has a maid, the passing is done by her; if not, by those sitting 
at the table. 

3. The Mixed Service is a combination of the two men- 
tioned and requires the service of a waitress. Some of the courses 
are served "from the side" (Russian), and some "from the table'* 
(English). Frequently the meat is served from the table (English), 
and the accompanying vegetables served from the side (Russian). 

Serving Without a Maid 

To observe the rules given for maid service when without a 
maid would be an unnecessary tax upon one's time and strength. 
The serving can be done nicely if attention be paid to certain points. 

To avoid disturbance and frequent rising from the table, all 
foods which the temperature of the room would not affect should 
be placed upon the table or the serving table. 

It is a good plan to have some young member of the family 
circle perform what service is required. For this kind of service 
it is permissible to remove plates or dishes two at a time, one in 
each hand, or to leave a person without a plate. This is, of course, 
contrary to conventional service. 

A Few Standard Rules for a Maid 

1. Pass and place everything from the left, except beverages 
and extra silver belonging on the right. An exception to the rule 
is the placing of salad at the right when served with the meat course. 

2. Place and remove plates one at a time. To save time, 
two plates may be brought to the dining room. Place one on the 
serving table and the other on the dining table; return to the 
serving table for the second plate, rather than to the pantry. 

3. Use a folded napkin in the hand under all dishes served 
which contain food. 

4. Use a tray only when passing or removing more than 
one article, as cream and sugar, or salts and peppers. 

5. In removing a course, first take all dishes containing food, 
then soiled plates and silver. 

6. Special watchfulness should be given by the maid that 
each person's needs are attended to. 

7. Two pieces of silver placed on a platter containing food to 
be served are more convenient than one, for the person serving 
himself. 

8. No sound of preparation should come from the pantry. 

49 




Cut 

Veribest 

Special 

Meat 

Loaf 

m>^ 

inch 

cubes, 

and 

heat 

in 

one 

of 

these 

hot 

sauces. 



Veribest Special Meat Loaf 

Brown Sauce with Olives 
Method: Brown 2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 
Butter, add 3 tablespoonfuls flour, and 1 cupful hot 
water in which has been dissolved % teaspoonful Ar- 
mour's Extract of Beef. Season with salt and pepper. 
Cut slices of olives and add to sauce. 

Horse-Radish Sauce 

Method : Melt 2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom But- 
ter, add 3 tablespoonfuls flour and 1 cupful milk. Let boil 
3 minutes. Season with salt, pepper and fresh horse, 
radish root. Tomato Sauce 

Method: Brown 2 tablespoonfuls Cloverbloom 
Butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls flour; add 1 cupful stewed 
and strained tomatoes. Season with salt, pepper and 
onion juice. 




'^^■^ 



'V . » ' '■■' 



Veribest Jellied Lamb's Tongue 
Method: Slice thin. Garnish with fresh vegetables cut in 
artistic shapes. 

50 



Cooking Temperatures 

Cooking by temperature is entirely new. It proves practical, especially for 
oven cookery and for deep fat frying. 

Housekeepers have long used it for making candies where uniform quality 
is desired, and a temperature test is familiar in every farm home where butter 
is to be made of uniform texture and flavor. 

For frying, the following temperatures have been found unfailingly suc- 
cessful no matter what the fat used. Keep the fat between 360° and 370° F. 
for all raw mixtures as doughnuts, etc. Keep fat at 390° F. for croquettes and 
similar mixtures. 

In order to secure the correct temperature for French fried potatoes, oys- 
ters, etc., 360° F., the temperature should be 380° F. when the food is immersed 
in it Be very sure that not more than one layer of potatoes or six large 
oysters are in the basket at one time, otherwise the fat will be cooled too 
rapidly for successful results. 

In all boiling operations remember that just so long as food is kept at the 
boiling temperature it is receiving the maximum amount of cooking possible 
for that method. 

Pre-cooked cereals require twenty minutes for thorough cooking. Unpre- 
pared raw cereals require one hour of cooking in a double boiler or eight hours 
in a fireless cooker. If the latter is used do not use a radiator. If only a small 
quantity is cooked, pack in a kettle of boiling hot water to secure bulk. 

In the cooking of vegetables it is impossible to give stated times because 
vegetables vary in the amount of cellulose and wood fibre they contain. 
Some beets may be cooked in thirty minutes while others no larger may require 
two hours of steady boiling. 

Oven temperatures vary to a slight extent with the fuel used. We find 
that a gas oven requires slightly higher temperatures to produce the same 
results than the coal range or the electric range, largely because the gas range 
oven is much drier than the other two. 

All baked food may be grouped in four classes, those that must be cooked 
in a "very slow" oven; those that must be cooked in the "moderate" oven; 
those that must be cooked in the "hot" oven; and, finally, those that must be 
cooked in the "very hot" oven. A temperature of 500° to 550° for a gas oven, 
450° to 500° for an electric or coal range oven cire the proper temperatures for 
this type of cooking. It should be used for puff paste and pastry shells. 

For the "hot" oven a temperature of 450° to 500° is maintained in the 
gas, electric or coal ovens. This oven is especially adapted for cooking red 
meats, roasts, etc., but should also be used for biscuits both raised and quick, 
pop-overs (reducing heat after first fifteen minutes), previously cooked escjil- 
loped dishes, and baked potatoes. 

The temperature of the "moderate" to "hot" oven averages 450° F. for 
the gas oven, but 400° F. for the electric or coal range oven. This oven is es- 
pecially adapted to baking lamb, veal, pork, poultry, breads, fish, cheese dishes, 
puddings, cookies, muffins, and small and layer cakes. 

For the much used "moderate" oven obtain a temperature of 350° in the 
gas oven, and 300° in electric and cojil range ovens. This oven is adaipted to 
baking practically all foods requiring even temperatures, such as beans, cas- 
serole dishes, sponge cake, angel cake, etc. May also be used for souffles, 
loaf cakes, gingerbreads and deep and fruit pies. 

For the "very slow" oven obtain a temperature of 300° in the gcis and 
275° in the electric and coal range ovens. This is the so-called fireless cooking 
temperature and is adapted only to long-terms cookery, such as oven stews in 
casserole dishes, fruit cakes, Indian puddings, etc. It also may be used for pound 
cake, meringues, custards of all kinds, and rice puddings of uncooked rice. 

51 



Itemized Accovinting of 
Expenditures and Per- 
centage Apportionment 
of Income. 



KEEPING THE 

Home managing is considered the greatest business in 
the world to-day. No home manager should undertake the 
responsibility of distributing the family income without 
some method of keeping accounts. 

The accompanying family budget outline has stood the 
test of satisfactory use in a typical, busy American home. 

The home manager's credit column is a new feature. 
If the housewife, by means of her ingenuity or by doing 
work herself, saves on the regular scheduled expenditures, 
that money should go to her personal account. Prepar- 

MONTH 



Income 


Home 

Manager's 

Credit Colmnn 


Food Apportionments 309^ 


Shelter Apportionment 209^ 




Date 


Meat 


Groc. 


Vege. 


Bakery 


Hotel 

Meals 


Rent 


Upkeep 


Extra Exp. 




This sum 

should be 

deposited in a 

personal 

savings 

account 


1 












or pay- 
ments 
on owned 
home 


House 


Carfare 
caused 




2 














3 












Plumb- 
ing 


by 




4 












unusual 
distance 
of home 




5 
















6 












Interest 

on 
mort- 
gage 


Roofing 


from 




Savings on 

operating 

expenses 


7 












work 




8 
















Pointing 

up or 
shingling 






9 


















10 
















Clothing 


11 
















12 












Taxes 


Window 
repair 








13 
















Dr. bills saved 

by proper 

cooking 


14 
15 



























Papering 






16 


















17 
















Fire 
Insur- 
ance 


Repair 

of 
grounds 






Amt. cut 
down on 
personal 
expenses 


18 
















19 
















20 
















21 














Fences 








22 
















Savings on 

amusements 

by wise 

selection 


23 
















Side- 
walks 






24 
















25 


















26 
















Bams 




Remarks : 


27 














28 
















29 














or 
garage 






30 
31 






























Total 
30% 


for mon 
or $4S.0( 


thly inco 
I 


me of $1 


50.00 ah, 


>uldbe 


Total for 
$150.00 six 


monthly in 
iuldbe20% 


come of 
or $30.00 



52 



FAMILY BUDGET 

edness is a big factor in the growth of this column. 

In this budget layout you will also find the percentage 
apportionments for various incomes. Make out your 
own budget outline as here given, substituting your own 
salary and percentage figures. Attach a pencil to the 
book and keep it where you will put down the amounts 
each evening. 

Make your budget a co-ojjerative affair, soliciting sug- 
gestions from the family as to what investments, savings, 
etc., to make. 

YEAR 



Estimated for Family of 
Five on $150 a Month. 

Percentages of Expenditures 

for Food, Operating and 

Contingency vary according 

to income. 



Operating 
Expense 109^ 


Clothing 15 fo 


Contingency 25^ 


Heat 


Furnish- 
ings 


Materials 


Tailor or 
Seamstress 


R'dy-made Cleaning; 
Clothing Repairing 


Savings 


Advance- 
ments 


Personal 


Health 












Repair- 
ing 
Shoes 


Invest- 
ments 


Educa- 
tion 


Mani- 
curing 


Dentist 














Pleas- 
ures 


Litera- 
ture 


Hair 
Dressing 


Doctor 














Lux- 
uries 


Con- 
certs 


Shoe 
shining 


Nurse 


Light 












Vaca- 
tions 


Dramas 




Medi- 
cine 


Cooking 
fuel 












Gifts 


Church 
Dues 




Sani- 
tarium 


Hired 
help 












Enter- 
taining 


Club 
Dues 




Special 
Health 
Trips 


Laun- 
dry 


















Special 
Baths 














Miscellany 






Total for r 
come of $15 
be 10% or 


nonlWy in- 
0.00 should 
$15.00 \ 


ToUl for 

be 15% 


monthly incc 
r $22.50 


)me of $150 


00 should 


Total for r 

be 25% or 


nonthly inco 
$37.50 


me of $150.( 


M should 



53 



Kitchen Utensils 

A list of small kitchen utensils is given below. It provides tools for the 
ordinarv methods of cooking. In selecting the ware, consider the weight the 
Surabimy and t£ adaptabili^ Cast and stamped aluminum are the best for 
gaff uel spun aluminum for electricity, and a good grade of enamel or agate 

for coal or kerosene. . , 

For special cooking operations, special wares are best. 

The Scotch type of kettle made of cast aluminum may be used for deep 
frying pSr baking we recommend the new glassware This is especially 
a7od for batter mixtures, pie crust, etc. Russia iron is best for cooky sheets 
f nd open roasSig pans. Roasters depend more on design than material 
Casserdes cL be of pottery, vitrified china or the ne- glassware- K^^^^^^ the 
temperature of oven to a heat producing gentle simmering m the casserole. A 
mSfng bowl should be light and deep and of enamel ware. Never use the 
Sow rounded bottom tjpe. Have a simple type of steamer boiler. Through 
JhfuTper uS the steam penetrates so that a double amount ot food may 
hf» rnoked over the single burner. . , , 

The equipment listed below is grouped according to its use under one of 
the three operations: Mixing, Cooking, and Cleaning. 



4 mixing bowls nested in 
sizes and conical in 
shape 
2 glass pie plates 
1 metal molding board 
1 meat chopper 
1 mayonnaise mixer 

1 aluminum mixing 
spoon 

L shallow wooden beat- 
ing spoon 

1 French knife, Sabatier 

shape 
1 bread knife 
1 knife sharpener 
1 large two-tined fork 
can opener 1 spatula 



steam cooker 

Scotch frying kettle, iron 
or aluminum 

1 large roasting pan, un- 
covered for use on a 
coal range, covered 
roaster if for use on 
a gas range 

1 5-qt. Berlin kettle with 

cover 

2 layer cake pans, alu- 

minum 

1 self-wringing mop 

1 dustpan and soft brush 

soft old cloths 

drainer soap shaker 

plate scraper 

vegetable brush 

1 dozen glass towels 



Mixing 

ice pick 

wooden mallet 

2 aluminum funnels 

clock 

1 open rolling pin 

1 flour sifter 

Spoons 

1 set measuring spoons 

1 aluminum slotted mix- 

ing spoon 

Knives 

lemon squeezer 

2 milk bottle tops 

1 nutmeg grater 

2 vegetable knives 
1 meat slicer 

1 sharp kitchen carver 

Cooking 

1 muffin pan, aluminum 
1 aluminum tube cake 

pan 
yi dozen glass custard 

cups 
1 teapot 
waffle iron 
1 coffee maker 
1 aluminum frying pan 

1 2-qt. saucepan and 

cover 

Cleaning 

steel wool for scouring 
aluminum 

2 yds. new cheesecloth 
1 dustless mop 

stove cleaning outfit 
fibre dishpan 
soap dish 



1 coffee mill 
1 bread mixer 
ice cream freezer 
duck bag for ice 
1 jelly mold 

1 potato masher 
scissors 

%, doz. aluminum tea- 
spoons 

2 aluminum measuring 

cups 

2 kitchen forks 
corkscrew 1 grater 

apple corer 
rotary egg beater 
biscuit, doughnut and 
cooky cutters 



1 vegetable Berlin kettle 

with cover, 2-qt. ca- 
pacity 

2 loaf cake pans, alumi- 

num or glass 
4 bread pans, aluminum 
or glass 

1 Russia iron cooky sheet 

2 casseroles, 1 deep and 

of large capacity, for 
chicken cookery, 1 
smaller and shallower 

dishwashing brush or 

mop 
milk bottle brush 
metal scraper for pans 

1 doz. linen crash towels 

2 cheesecloth bags for 

lettuce 



54 




TO 
DINING 
ROOM 



I 

i 

i ^ 



TO 
PORCH 



i ^z 
1'^ 



KITCHEN 

II X i^ FEET 



TABLE 



^c u 



Kitchen Plans 

A kitchen should have cross ventilation and the prevailing winds should 
be allowed full play to dispose of cooking odors. The plan approved by Good 
Housekeeping Institute is oblong in shape. This is for two reasons: first, if 
equipment is properly placed on such a floor plan the working operations may 
be so centered as to make use only of the short dimension of the room; second, 
the extra length provides for ventilation and a rest corner. 

Both of our plans are capable of adaptation to special conditions, but in 
both of them careful attention has been paid to the placement of equipment 
with a view to efficient routing of all work toward the ultimate serving of the 
food in the dining room. Either plan can be varied widely. 

Good Housekeeping Institute has dem- 
onstrated that no one thing has more 
influence in lessening kitchen work than 
the placing of equipment at the proper 
height. The kitchen sink should be not lower 
than 34 inches from the bottom of the sink 
to the floor; 35 inches will prove a better 
height for all workers over 5' 6" in height. 
The kitchen range should be 32 inches high. 
The laundry tray should be set with its rim 
on a level with the sink rim, and the ironing 
board should be 34 inches from the floor. 

The wall treatment of the kitchen should 
preferably be of metal tiling up to 4 feet 
with a plaster wall covered with hard oil 
paint in stipple finish. Where the metal 
tiling cannot be used, a plain plaster wall stipple-painted is best. 

Have all wood trim without panelling and waxed on plain stain rather 
than varnished or oiled. For the floor, a linoleum covering remains the best 
choice when properly laid and finished. After laying for three weeks until 
properly stretched, the seams must be 
cemented with a strong glue cement, 
when the linoleum becomes an actual floor 
rather than a floor covering. As soon as 
properly laid, wash clean and fill the pores 
with a paste wax. This feeds the linoleum 
so that it need never wear out. The after 
care will consist only of mopping up the soil 
which will be on the surface and occasion- 
ally replacing the wax with any one of the 
liquid wax preparations. Apply with a 
cloth as in dusting. Color may seem to 
have little to do with reducing labor and 
yet when buffs and light soft browns and 
yellows are used on the wall and woodwork, 
the restful light relieves eyestrain, thus 
really preventing bodily fatigue. 



STORAGE CABINETS 







A COMPLETE LIST OF 

The diagram shows the food supply of the household arranged ready for use. 
There are four groups, Pantry Emergency Products, Pantry Staples, Pantry Refrig- 
erator Articles and Cold Closet Articles. All perishable goods are in the ice box; 
bulky foods like ham, sausage, or staples in quantity, in the cold closet; food staples 
in the pantry, and vegetables, both fresh and canned, in their proper departments. 



? 



THE PANTRY STAPLES 



Beef, Brisket, Armour's Veribest 
Beef, Potted, Armour's Veribest 
Beef, Roast, Armour's Veribest 
Boned Turkey, Armour's Veribest 
Boneless Pigs' Feet, Armour's 

Veribest 
Bouillon Cubes, Armour's 
Bread, Homemade 
Beans, Navy, in Cartons, Veribest 
Cake, Homemade 
Chicken Loaf, Armour's Veribest 
Chicken, Potted, Armour's Veribest 
Chili Sauce, Veribest 
Cocoa Coffee Corn Meal 

Corned Beef Hash, Armour's 

Veribest 
Crackers 

Deviled Tongue, Armour's Veribest 
Deviled Turkey, Armour's Veribest 
Deviled Ham, Armour's Veribest 
Deviled Chicken, Armour's Veribest 
Dried Beef, Armour's Veribest 
Extract of Beef, Armour's 
Flavoring Extracts, Armour's 
Flour— Whole-Wheat, Graham, 

Pastry 
Frankfurts, Armour's 

' Apricots Blackberries 
Fruits, Cherries Blueberries 
Armour's < Peaches Gooseberries 
Canned Pears Loganberries 

^ Plums Raspberries 
Ham, Potted, Veribest 
Hominy, Armour's Canned 
Horse-Radish Cream, Armour's 
' Blackberry- Apple 
Cherry-Apple 
Jams, J Gooseberry-Apple 
Armour's 1 Peach-Apple 

Raspberry-Apple 
Strawberry-Apple 



f Apple 

Jellies, I ^3sPberry 
Armour si strawberry 

t Assorted Flavor 
Luncheon Dainties, Armour's 
Mayonnaise Dressing 
Milk, Veribest, Evaporated 
Mince Meat, Armour's Veribest 
Mutton Roast, Armour's 

Veribest 
Oatmeal, Armour's Rolled White 

Oats 
Olives 
Pickles 
Pork and Beans without Tomato 

Sauce, Armour's Veribest 
Rice Salad Oil Salt 

Sauerkraut and Vienna Sausage, 

Armour's Veribest 
Sausage, Veribest, Vienna Style 
Tomato 
Vegetable 
Consomm6 
Chicken 
Oxtail 
^ Mock Turtle 
Spaghetti, Meat and Chili, 

Armour's Veribest 
Sugar Syrup Tea 

Tomato Ketchup, Armour's 

Veribest 
Tongue, Potted, Armour's 

Veribest 
Tripe, Armour's Veribest 
Turkey, Potted, Armour's 
Veribest 

C Tomatoes 
Veribest J Peas 
Vegetables 1 Corn 

(^ Asparagus 



Soups, 
Armour's ^ 
Veribest 



56 



FOODS FOR THE HOME 

The "emergency shelf" well deserves its name; the housewife finds in here every- 
thing she needs with which to prepare an impromptu meal or entertain unexpected 
guests. An emergency shelf to fulfill its function must be complete, and an article 
once removed for a purpose should be replaced as soon as used. Note the large 
number of Armour's Pure Food Products. 



3 



PANTRY EMERGENCY PRODUCTS 



Veribest/J?'"^t° ,, 

Veribest/I^'T" 
Fish iSardmes 

l,Tuna 

Veribest f Tomatoes 
Canned < Peas 
Vegetables [Corn 

Armour's ^ ^^^' ^°^^ 
Veribest I thicken Tamales 
Lamb's Tongue 

Foods 



' Boned Chicken 



Ham Loaf 



COLD CLOSET 

Dry Vegetables 

Sweet Peppers 

Potatoes 

Grape Juice, Armour's 

Family Case 
Cheese, Armour's Veribest 
Bacon, Armour's Star 
Ham, Armour's Star 
Dry Sausage Varieties 
Stock of Canned Foods 

Bought by Box 



Pork and Beans with Tomato Sauce 
Sliced Bacon in Jars 
Cheese, Veribest, Kept in Cold Closet 
Dry Sausage, (43) Kept in Cold Closet 
Cookies and Crackers, in Packages 
Grape Juice, Kept in Cold Closet 
Veribest/ Pineapple - Sliced 
Fruits 1 Cherries 

t Strawberries 
Apple Butter, Armour's 
Evaporated Milk, Veribest 
Oyster Cocktail Sauce, Veribest 
Peanut Butter, Veribest 



IN REFRIGERATOR 

Butter— Cloverbloom 
Oleomargarine — Armour's 
Lard— "Simon Pure" Leaf 
Eggs — Armour's Veribest Car- 
ton 

Bacon— Veribest, Sliced, in Car- 
ton 

Milk 

Cream 

Meats — Steak, Roast, Chops, 

Stew, Kidney, Heart, Liver, 

Cold Cooked Meats 

Sausage, Armour's Devon- 
shire Farm (Links or Meat) 
Lettuce, Washed and in Bag 
Green Vegetables 



57 



Hints On Measuring and Mixing 

Cooks are born, but just as good cooks can be made. 

No one thing has had so much influence in placing cookery upon its mod- 
ern improved basis as the almost universal adoption of an accurate standard 
of measurement. The day has long gone by when the favorite cups and spoons 
of varying sizes in each household are the basis of cookery measuring. 

The Good Housekeeping Institute approved measuring set consists of two 
standard measuring cups holding one-half pint each and divided into quarters 
and thirds. These may be made of either aluminum or glassware. The tin 
cup is too short lived to make it a good purchase. One set of accurate meas- 
uring spoons should be included. These are made of aluminum, and are grad- 
uated from one tablespoonful down to one-fourth teaspoonful. 

A spatula for leveling off solid measurements is valuable. So, also, is an 
aluminum quart measure and a small compact spring scale. Use the scale 
more for checking the weights as purchased than for cooking by weight. 

In measuring dry ingredients by cupfuls, put in the ingredient by spoonfuls, 
allow it to heap slightly, then level with a quick stroke of the spatula. When 
fractions of a cupful are to be measured, measure by tablespoonful s up to one- 
half cupful capacity, in preference to using a cup. For one-eighth of a tea- 
spoonful, measure one-fourth, then cut in two with spatula. Less than one- 
eighth of a teaspoonful is called " a few grains." 

In measuring dry ingredients by spoonfuls, fill the spoon by dipping into 
the ingredient until heaping; then cut level with the spatula. 

In measuring liquids by cupfuls or spoonfuls, use full measurements. 

In measuring a solid fat, pack solidly into cup or spoon and cut level with 
the spatula. Especially with this type of ingredient, it is often more conven- 
ient to measure fractions of a cup with the spoon. Where it must be measured 
in the cup. pack up to the correct division indicated. 

Fully as important as measuring are the correct motions for combining 
ingredients. These involve three processes, stirring, beating, and "cutting" in. 

The stirring motion blends ingredients together intimately. 

Beating is the motion necessary when air must be introduced into a mix- 
ture in order to leaven it. In beating, the ingredients must be turned over 
and over, continually bringing the under part upward to the surface. 

The cutting and folding motion is necessary when a mixture already con- 
taining entrapped air, introduced by beating, must have an added ingredient, 
also well beaten, and the mixture accomplished without loss of air from either 
mixture. An illustration of this is a sponge cake where beaten egg whites 
must be cut and folded into the "yolk-sugar-and-flour" mixture. 

Briefly, by stirring, a dish is properly mixed; by beating, air is entrapped; 
by cutting and folding, this air already entrapped is prevented from escaping. 

The list of equivalents given below is intended merely as an assistance 
m purchasing supplies, because Good Housekeeping Institute does not believe 
in cookery by weight. In the Institute laboratory it was definitely proved 
that the ordinary method used in measuring ingredients produced results 
accurate within a tenth of a grain when ingredients as important as baking 
powder were used as the basis of the test. Equivalents, however, are useful 
when recipes call for an ingredient of unknown weight. 



4 saltspoonfuls =1 teaspoonful 2 cupfuls=l pint 

3 teaspoonfuls =1 tablespoonful 2 pints ==1 quart 



List of Equivalents in Measures' 

poonful 

A teaspoontuls =1 tablespoonful 2 pints ==1 quart 

16 tablespoonfuls=l cupful dry ingredients 4 quarts =1 gallon 

12 tablespoonfuls=l cupful wet ingredients 8 quarts =1 peck 

List of Equivalents in Foods 

1 lb. comstarch=3 cupfuls plus 2 tablespoonfuls 1 lb. pastry flour, unsifted =3^ cupfuls 

1 lb. butter =2 ''^. " 2 '^ 1 lb. bread flour, " =3K " 

1 lb. lard =2 " " 2 " 1 lb. confectioner's sugar =2?l " 

1 lb. bran =9 " " 2 " 1 lb. light-brown sugar =2H " 

1 lb. rice —2 " " H " 1 lb. pulverized coffee =514 " 

1 lb. rye flour =3% " 1 lb. Graham flour =3^ " 
1 lb. entire-wheat flour, unsifted =354 cupfuls plus 1 tablespoonful 

1 lb. granulated corn meal =3 ' "1 

1 lb. granulated sugar =2 " "2 " 

58 



INDEX 

INTRODUCTION 

SELECTIVE MENUS . 

HAM AND BACON 

VERIBEST PACKAGE FOODS 

SHORTENINGS . 

FRYING .... 

OLEOMARGARINE 

BOUILLON CUBES AND EXTRACT OF BEEF 

BUTTER, EGGS AND CHEESE 

GRAPE JUICE .... 

CALIFORNIA FRUITS 

DRY SAUSAGE .... 

MEATS 

MEATS, METHODS FOR COOKING 
FRESH SAUSAGE ... 

SERVING 

COOKING TEMPERATURES 

FAMILY BUDGET 

KITCHEN UTENSILS 

KITCHEN PLANS 

LIST OF FOODS FOR THE HOME 

MEASURING AND MIXING 



PAGE 
2 
3 
8 
13 
20 
21 
26 
32 
35 
38 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
49 
51 
52 
54 
55 
56 
58 



MENUS 

SELECTIVE MENUS 3 

INFORMAL LUNCHEON MENUS, CHURCH SUPPER MENUS . . 12 

CAMPERS' LUNCHES, AUTO PARTY LUNCHES 14 

OFFICE WORKERS' LUNCHES, HIGH SCHOOL PUPILS' LUNCHES 16 

Mrs. Adams will be glad to furnish recipes for any dishes mentioned in this 
book for which directions are not given. Address Mrs. Jean Prescott Adams, 
care of Armour and Company, Chicago. 

The recipes given in these pages have all been tested by experts. To get high 
uniform results, only food products of high standard value should be used. 

MAKE ALL MEASUREMENTS LEVEL. 



RECIPES 



Biscuit, Baking Powder 

Bread 

Cookies 

Corn Cake 

Corn Griddle Cakes 

Corn Cake, Hunter's 



Cake, Spice . 
Cake, White 
Chocolate Layer Cake 
Cocoa Cake . 
Cocoa Nut Bars . 
Cookies, Soft Molasses 



BREAD 




22 Doughnuts .... 


. 22 


24 Griddle Cakes 


. 48 


24 Muffins, Graham 


. 24 


24 Nut and Raisin Bread . 


. 25 


36 Peanut Biscuit 


. 31 


36 Raisin Drop Biscuit 


. 27 


CAKES 




24 Gingerbread 


. 24 


24 Gingersnaps 


. 27 


30 Grandmother's Cookies 


. 27 


30 Molasses Gems . 


. 31 


27 Nut Loaf Cake . 


. 31 


25 Sugar Cake, German . 


. 31 



59 



DESSERT 



Caramel Custard, Baked 
Grapefruit with Grape Juice 
Grape Juice for Flavoring and 

Tinting 

Grape Juice High Ball . 
Grape Juice Lemonade 
Grape Juice Parf ait 



Bacon and Eggs 
Egg and Green 

wiches 
Egg Salad 



Pepper Sand- 



Salmon, Egg Sauce 
Salmon Salad 



MEATS. 

Bacon and Eggs . 
Beef Tongue and Spinach . 
Bouillon .... 
Brisket Beef, Breaded . 
Chicken Croquettes with Peas 
Chicken Garnished with Bacon 
Consomme .... 
Corned Beef, Creamed, au Gratin 
Eggs Stuffed with Sausage 
Frankfurts and Potato Salad 
Gravy, Brown 
Ham, Baked Whole . 
Ham, Boiled Whole . 
Ham, Sandwiches, 12 Styles 
Ham, Sliced and Broiled 
Luncheon Beef Stew . 
Luncheon Beef and Macaroni 

Tomato Sauce . 
Meat, Boiled 
Meat, Braised 



17 Grape Juice Pudding Sauce 

39 Grape Juice Sherbet . 
Grape Juice Sponge, Princess 

40 Style 

38 Marshmallow Peaches 

39 Peach Shortcake .... 

40 Strawberry Shortcake 

EGGS 

11 Eggs Stuffed with Sausage . 
Eggs, Stuffed, White Sauce 
36 Eggs in Ramequins 
36 Omelet, Spanish .... 

FISH 

19 Sauce Piquante ( For Fish ) 

18 Tuna Fish Salad .... 



SOUPS AND SAUCES 

11 Meat, Broiled Open Fire Method 

18 Meat, Broiled, Pan Broil . 
33 Meat, Fried 

19 Meat Loaf with Brown Sauce 
23 Meat, Roasted 
11 Meat, Sauteed 

32 Meat, Stewed 
17 Sauce a la Bechamel . 

47 Sauce, Horse-Radish . 

48 Sauce, Plain Brown ( For Steaks 

33 and Roasts) 
9 Sauce, Tomato 
9 Sauce, Brown, with Olives . 
9 Soup, Standard . 
9 Sausage, Baked . 

19 Sausage with Fried Apples . 
Sausage and Griddle Cakes 

19 Sausage, Chafing Dish Supper 

45 Sausage Rolls, French 

45 Sausage Meat and Rice Cakes 



PAGE 
. 40 
. 38 



Pastry, Flaky and Plain 



Egg Salad 
Fruit Salad . 
Pineapple Salad 



PASTRY 

. 21 Mince Pie . 

SALADS 

. 36 Salmon Salad 
. 42 Tuna Fish Salad 
. 41 

VEGETABLES 



Beef Tongue and Spinach . 
Cauliflower, Croutons of, Maitre 

d'Hotel 

Cheese, Pecan Nut and Pimento 

Sandwiches .... 
Corn, Creamed, au Gratin . 



18 French Fried Potatoes 

Macaroni and Cheese 
29 Pork and Beans, Tomato Sauce 

Sausage with Fried Apples . 
29 Tomatoes, Sauteed, Green . 
17 Tomatoes, Scalloped 

60 



40 
41 
25 
28 



47 
37 
37 
37 



34 
17 



45 
45 
45 
15 
45 
45 
45 
34 
50 

34 
34 
50 
45 
47 
47 
48 
46 
46 
47 



23 



18 
17 



25 
37 
15 
47 
25 
36 




Z AdoQ 
L161 
93U' 

STA XI 



